Good morning and welcome to Air Products and Chemicals First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also this teleconference presentation and the comments on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
[Operator Instructions] Beginning today's call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Moore you may begin.
Thank you John.
Good morning and welcome to Air Products' First Quarter 2011 Earnings Teleconference.
This is Simon Moore.
Today our CFO Paul Huck and I will review our fiscal Q1 results and outlook for the remainder of 2011.
We issued our earnings release this morning.
It is available on our website along with the slides for this teleconference.
Please go to airproducts.com and click on the scrolling red banner to access the materials.
Instructions for accessing a replay of this call beginning at 2 p.m.
Eastern time are also available on the website.
Please turn to Slides 2 and 3.
As always today's teleconference will contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations regarding important risk factors.
Please review the information on these slides and at the end of today's earnings release explaining factors that may affect these expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Paul for a review of our financials Thanks Simon.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Please turn to Slide #4.
We are off to a great start to fiscal 2011.
For the quarter sales of $2.4 billion were 10% higher versus prior year on growth in our Electronics and Performance Materials Tonnage and Merchant segments.
Underlying sales increased 11% on 10% higher volumes and 1% higher pricing.
Sequentially sales were higher 2%.
Underlying sales were up 1% on higher pricing in Merchant Gases and our Electronics and Performance Materials segments.
Volumes were flat mainly due to seasonality.
Operating income of $404 million increased 17% from prior year on higher volumes.
Our operating margin improved to 16.9% up 100 basis points versus prior year.
We are on track to deliver on our 17% goal for fiscal 2011.
Equity affiliate income was up slightly versus prior year.
Improved volumes and cost performance were partially offset by a charge for the anticipated sale of a plant in one of our affiliates.
Absent this loss sequential equity affiliate income would have been slightly higher.
As we've seen in prior years our tax rate in quarter one was lower than our expected average rate for the full year due to the timing of certain tax credits and adjustments.
We still expect our full year tax rate to be consistent with the 25% and 26% guidance range given last quarter.
For the quarter net income increased 17% and diluted earnings per share increased by 16% each versus prior year.
Return on capital employed for the quarter improved to 13.2% up 140 basis points.
Turning to Slide 5 for a review of the factors that affected the quarter's performance in terms of earnings per share.
Our adjusted earnings per share increased by $0.19.
Higher volumes in Electronics and Performance Materials Tonnage and Merchant segments increased earnings per share by $0.25 year-on-year.
The impact of pricing combined with energy and raw material costs netted to zero.
Costs were $0.02 unfavorable as our productivity gains were more than offset by higher operating and distribution costs.
Currency translation and foreign exchange netted to a $0.02 unfavorable impact.
And higher non-controlling interest and shares outstanding cost us $0.01 each.
In summary a very good start to the year at the top end of our expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Simon to review our business segment results.
Simon? Thanks Paul.
Please turn to Slide 6 Merchant Gases.
Merchant Gases sales of $988 million were up 6% versus prior year.
Underlying sales improved by 8% on increased volumes and higher pricing.
Currency reduced sales by 2%.
Year-on-year sales improvement was driven by very strong Asia growth and improving volumes in North America and Europe liquid bulk products.
Sequentially sales were up 4% primarily due to currency.
Underlying sales were up 1%.
Merchant Gases operating income of $201 million was up 6% versus prior year and up 8% sequentially.
Segment operating margin of 20.3% was flat versus prior year and up 80 basis points sequentially.
Sequential margins expanded driven by improved pricing across all regions.
During the quarter we announced the construction of four new projects in India through our INOX Air Products joint venture.
Three new merchant air separation units will provide efficient and reliable supply for the strong growth opportunities we are seeing in India.
The fourth project will be a piggyback ASU and hydrogen plant to supply gasses to Saint Gobain Glass India and liquid products for the merchant market.
These investments strengthen INOX's Air Products' leading merchant presence throughout India.
Also during the quarter we brought China's first air separation unit utilizing LNG cold energy on stream.
This JV with CNOOC the China National Offshore Oil Company (sic) [Corporation] will provide a low-cost supply of over 600 tons of oxygen nitrogen and argon to supply the fast-growing industrial gases market in Fujian Province.
Let me now provide a few additional comments by region.
Please turn to Slide 7.
In North America sales improved 6% versus prior year the largest increase we have seen in over two years.
Volumes were up 3% on growth and liquid oxygen nitrogen and argon.
Pricing was up 3% with increases across the portfolio.
This was the highest increase in the last seven quarters.
LOX/LIN plant loading remained in the mid-70s.
In Europe underlying sales increased 2% but negative 6% currency reduced overall sales to a negative 4%.
Volumes were up 3% with stronger liquid bulk growth tempered by modest packaged gas improvement and lower healthcare volumes.
Pricing was down 1% with positive packaged gas pricing offset by unfavorable healthcare and liquid bulk pricing.
Our Europe LOX/LIN plant loading remained in the low 80s.
In Asia sales were up 35% versus last year with underlying sales up 30%.
Volumes were up 25% with strength across all products.
Pricing was also strong up 5%.
Pricing was stronger in part due to spot argon in China as rolling power curtailments reduced steel companies' self-generated argon.
LOX/LIN pricing across Asia was up 2%.
These sales and volume increases were the highest in over four years.
Plant loadings remained in the high 80s.
We will continue to bring new capacity onstream over the next few quarters.
Please turn to Slide 8 Tonnage Gases.
Tonnage Gases sales of $766 million increased 10% versus last year with volumes up 12%.
Higher volumes came from loading existing assets and new plants brought onstream in the last year.
Sequentially sales were up 2% with volumes up 5% and energy and raw material pass-through decreasing sales by 4%.
Volume growth was driven by new plants.
Operating income of $116 million was up 15% versus prior year primarily due to higher volumes from new plant startups reduced maintenance costs and improved plant efficiency.
Operating margin of 15.1% increased 70 basis points versus prior year due to the lower costs mentioned previously and lower natural gas costs pass-through.
Sequentially operating income was down 1% and margins declined due to higher maintenance costs.
Earlier in the quarter we announced that our Heartland Hydrogen Pipeline in Alberta Canada has been commercialized.
And we announced two new pipeline hydrogen supply contracts with Dow Chemical Canada and Evonik Degussa Canada.
We also announced a new nitrogen plant of the Isle of Grain LNG terminal in the United Kingdom.
This is our third plant to the facility and will support the expansion of the terminal having the capacity to process the equivalent of 20% of Britain's natural gas demand.
Please turn to Slide 9 Electronics and Performance Materials.
Segment sales of $526 million were up 21% compared to last year on volume increases with flat pricing.
Sequentially sales were up slightly on positive pricing and slightly lower seasonal volumes.
Electronics sales were up 30% compared to last year and up 4% sequentially as the industry pushed well beyond 2008 peak production.
We also saw less seasonal decline particularly at our industry-leading customers.
Electronics specialty materials sales increased 13% versus prior year and were down 1% sequentially.
Ongoing Tonnage sales were up 16% versus prior year and up 7% sequentially.
And our Equipment business was up significantly versus prior year and also up versus prior quarter.
Electronics specialty materials pricing was flat sequentially.
Performance Materials sales increased 11% versus last year with strength across all markets.
Sales were down 4% sequentially due to normal seasonality.
Segment operating income of $69 million was up 42% versus prior year due to volume leverage and the benefit of the 2010 electronics restructuring actions.
Income was down 18% sequentially due to volume seasonality and an inventory revaluation.
Margins improved 190 basis points from last year due to higher volumes and lower costs.
They were down sequentially due to seasonally lower volumes and the inventory revaluation.
We are on track to deliver the 15% target margin for the segment for FY '11.
In terms of new business in December we announced the new air separation unit and pipeline at the Tanjeong Korea site to supply Samsung Mobile Display's newest Active-matrix Organic LED fab.
Earlier in January we announced the supply of nitrogen and bulk gases to UMC's new fab 12 phase 3 and 4 in the Tainan Science Park in Taiwan.
And just last week we announced the formation of our production joint venture to produce high-purity anhydrous hydrochloric acid in Freeport Texas.
Air Products will market our share of the output from this facility which will provide a reliable supply of HCL primarily for our Electronics customers.
Please turn to Slide 10 Equipment and Energy.
Sales of $112 million were up 3% versus prior year and down 13% sequentially reflecting lower ASU activity.
Operating income of $20 million increased significantly versus prior year due to higher LNG activity.
Income was flat sequentially.
Our backlog is lower both versus prior year and sequentially but it is expected to improve by the end of the year.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Paul.
Thanks Simon.
Now if you please turn to Slide 11 I'd like to share my thoughts on our outlook.
Our guidance for quarter two is for earnings per share of $1.36 to $1.40 based on the following factors.
On the positive side we expect to see increased earnings sequentially from the following areas: new plant onstreams including the Weihe Clean Energy Gasifier project and the Xingtai Steel will add to next quarter's results.
We also expect the global manufacturing economy to continue its gradual recovery.
And equity affiliate income should be higher.
Partially offsetting these sequential improvements in Asia we expect some slowing around the Lunar New Year holidays and we anticipate a higher tax rate in quarter two.
For fiscal year 2011 the underlying assumptions that we shared on last quarter's call remain unchanged.
Our capital expenditure guidance also remains unchanged at $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion up from last year's $1.3 billion.
With one quarter completed we're raising the lower end of our earnings per share guidance by $0.05 revising our full-year guidance range to $5.55 to $5.70 a share.
Now let me give everyone a brief update on our Airgas offer.
On December 9 we announced our best and final offer of $70 per share.
As we stated in that announcement it is time to bring this matter to a conclusion.
We are disappointed that the Airgas board continues to ignore the will of its shareholders.
Airgas shareholders deserve the opportunity to decide for themselves whether they want to accept our $0.70 per share in cash offer.
Now let me wrap up.
We are off to a great start in fiscal 2011 with growing sales and earnings.
We also continue to make significant improvements in our operating margin and our return on capital.
We remain committed to delivering returns for our shareholders that will make us the best investment in the industry.
The whole team at Air Products is excited by our opportunities and is focused on driving increasing shareholder value in the future.
Thank you.
I'll now turn the call over to John to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions]  We'll take our first question from John McNulty.
[Credit Suisse] First on the Electronics business clearly the volumes were really solid especially for the seasonality.
Can you kind of walk us through maybe what some of the drivers are behind that? And how we should think about that going forward if there was maybe some inventory-related issues or anything like that that may have driven them a little higher than normal? Yes John.
I don't think that there was anything on the inventory side which played a factor.
I think as we look at this and we look at the Electronics business we've said this before is that coming out of the recession people preferentially spent their money on consumer electronics.
And so if people had an extra $200 $500 $1 000 to spend that money more often found its way into the consumer electronics area than it found its way into other markets.
Also being helped are some of the new devices.
The success of the iPhone during this time period the success of the iPad tablet computers has driven a lot of that.
I think the other thing which has proven to be a good thing is that the large-screen TVs the LCD TVs continue to sell well.
They sold very well at Christmas.
There were a lot of concerns with people about what sort of things would happen.
Was there too much inventory too much production capacity? We have not seen that.
We've seen our customers run very well throughout that a good back-to-school season a good holiday season.
All that said there's always going to be some slowing.
And there was some slowing for us.
The growth sequentially was not as strong as it had been in other quarters.
And we would expect as I said in the Lunar New Year impact will have a small impact on us there too in the quarter two but a very solid market.
Inventories appear to be in line very well.
Customers seem to be operating extremely well and we're seeing expansions.
We're seeing new orders.
You saw the announcements which Simon talked about here.
Maybe I could just add to it.
Very good comments Paul.
I think particularly for our customers where we're pleased to have key positions with the industry leaders their utilization rates were strong through the period and are forecasted to continue to be strong into the future.
The inventory revaluation that you saw in the Electronics and Performance segment can you quantify what that was and how we should think about that going forward if there's any further adjustments to be made? I want to talk about that.
That's a good question here for you and for me to go through this.
It involves the accounting and the way you account for inventory for us.
First off one of the things which you want to understand is that overall to the company the impact of this was about zero.
So it was not a negative impact for us as the company is concerned right? In quarter one what happens is we take our standards and we change our standards.
So we take the value which we put to the inventory on 30 September and we go out and we adjust it to a new value which we're going to use for standard cost in fiscal year '11.
For products which are on LIFO we're going to reverse that at corporate that impact.
So if you write the standard up you get a gain.
If you write the standard down you get a loss on that.
And what we had in Electronics and Performance Materials area is we had a loss.
That probably cost us about 100 basis points in margin overall in that segment for us so if you're looking at the ongoing impact.
But actually what you're not going to see going forward is you're not going to see that impact anymore.
So it happened.
It's a one-time adjustment.
And now the cost going through the P&amp;L will be at the lower standard so it should have the impact of raising margins for us.
We'll move on to our next question from Jeff Zekauskas.
[JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co] You talked about the strength in your Asian Merchant business.
Was that across the board in Asia? Or were there particular areas of strength and weakness by geography or sub-geography? Yes it's a good question.
I think to highlight that very significant volume growth in Asia but also positive pricing.
We've talked about positive pricing across Asia the last couple of quarters.
We did mention that some of that positive was from some spot argon.
But even outside of that the base pricing was very positive.
And that was generally fairly consistent across the regions in Asia.
Again our strong positions in Korea and Taiwan with the strength of the electronics market a lot of the merchant products go into electronics there.
And certainly China's economy continues to provide good opportunities for us.
And then lastly what was your backlog in Equipment and Energy as of the end of the quarter? It was on the slide there.
It's a little over $200 million.
Moving on we'll take our next question from David Begleiter.
[Deutsche Bank] Paul in Merchant North America it looks like volume growth is moderating.
Can you talk to those trends and what you expect going forward from a volume growth perspective year-over-year? Sure Dave.
One of the things which you see in the business here within the U.S.
is that you see the economic growth is moderating also.
So in 2010 in fiscal year for us we saw an economy within the U.S.
which probably grew around 5% on the manufacturing side.
We're predicting growth of 3% to 4% in 2011.
And the reason why it grew stronger in 2010 was that the inventory pipeline refilled during that time period.
But you've seen it -- another example of an industry which has seen some of those is on the steel industry.
Steel industry rebuilt their pipeline and then they brought their operating rates back down.
So as we look forward our basic assumptions of a long slow recovery in manufacturing seems to be holding well.
Everyone I think was hoping for more of a V-shape.
We did not see a V.
We did see some inventory rebuild in 2010.
But as far as the dynamics in the U.S.
economy we're still dealing with a high unemployment; consumer confidence which is getting better albeit it still isn't great with things.
And so everyone is doing what I think is the right thing including us watching our costs paying attention to it going after the business at which we're advantaged and which we have opportunities for in the future.
But as far as a very strong recovery within the United States I just don't think it's in the cards until consumer confidence and employment get a lot better for us.
We have too much of our economy on the consumer end of things.
All that said I don't see it a double-dip either.
So I see long good steady solid growth going forward here for the economy.
And Paul just on your large project backlog you've had a number of announcement wins in the last few months.
Could you talk to the size of the backlog and the impact on earnings growth in the next two years? Yes.
If we look at the size of the backlog right now it's probably around $1.8 billion or so for us.
Capital spending as we've talked about it is going to be $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion in 2011.
We probably see that also hopefully growing in 2012.
That's going to depend upon awards which occur in 2011.
But there's a number of projects which are out there especially in countries like China where production capacity does need to expand for us.
So we're very excited about those opportunities.
As far as impact on earnings for this year as we talked about it last quarter probably $0.30 to $0.40 a share as far as the onstreams in this year and in last year.
A little early to tell what the impact for 2012 is going to be but I wouldn't expect it to be a lot changed from that.
That $1.8 billion is up versus last year? And if so how much? The $1.8 billion? It's pretty close to about the same about pretty close to about the same.
We'll move on to our next question from Laurence Alexander.
[Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> First as you think about your longer-term margins in the Tonnage business how much of a gap to get to your long-term margin targets would be just volume recovery? So better loading on the assets as opposed to benefits from higher energy prices? And I guess the second question is are you seeing any change in customer order patterns or urgency as they discuss potential tonnage contracts given how energy prices have escalated? I'll answer question two first because I guess it's  probably a little easier for us.
As far as the order patterns are concerned we have not seen that.
There's still a lot of bids which need to be decided and awards which should happen.
We would expect that in 2011 that award activity it will pick up in the industry because of those factors because of the energy.
I think as uncertainty starts to come out of the economy I think that's also something which is actually important.
So as people grow less concerned with a double-dip both here in the United States or Europe or worldwide order patterns and demand people will get more confident around that.
So I think that leads to improving orders in 2011 for things.
If you take a look at the tonnage operating margins one of the things which we've talked about for a long time is we invest in this business on return and not upon margin of the business.
The margin of the business is impacted by a number of factors.
First off on the hydrogen end a hydrogen plant with the same type of contract as an oxygen plant is going to have a lower margin in this business because what happens is the energy passes through and then the cost of the gas is higher.
Whether it's a hydrogen plant or an oxygen plant we make our money by investing money in these plants and running them well for our customers and building them well and good operations and getting efficiencies in the future.
We don't care.
And so we try not to establish really targets.
All that said higher margins are better with those things.
And so what we try to pay attention to is the efficiencies of the plants and how we're doing there.
And so with the efficiencies of the plants that is something which we have made good and steady progress on.
It's helped in the margins of this business over time and improved things for us with things.
But we don't actually set a margin target is the important thing which you have to understand Laurence.
And so we do try to drive the efficiencies and the returns higher.
And that's is what is occurring in the business for us as we go forward here.
And we'll move on to our next question from P.J.
Juvekar.
[Citigroup] You mentioned that in U.S.
margin you're operating rate is mid-70s; and in Europe they're mid-80s.
I was wondering what's the difference if U.S.
is seeing a slightly better recovery than Europe? Is it just that there's too much overcapacity in the U.S.? If you take a look at the capacity within the U.S.
it's certainly offloaded a lot during the downturn.
Prices have held well during that time period.
So if you look at the way in which we ourselves and our competitors have gone out and worked through on the business I think we've operated our plants well.
We've paid attention to what's happening in our contracts and what's happening to our costs in this business.
So I think within the U.S.
the business is operating very well.
Remember the U.S.
is spread out a lot with things.
And Europe tends to be concentrated more.
Around the plants it's just not as big a land area to deal with in that area.
And so as far as our concerns are here we think the U.S.
is in fine shape.
There's lots of loading capacity and loading of the capacity to occur.
We think that offers a great opportunity for us to grow earnings and grow returns within the U.S.
Within Europe I believe we need to get some of our prices higher with our customers.
We would like to see the margins in our European business better and the returns better for us.
And I think a market which is tighter actually helps us in that vein.
And the second question on margin was on India.
You're building four new plants three margin and one piggyback.
Is there risk that there is overbuild of margin capacity in India similar to what happened in China a few years ago? That's a great question P.J.
And certainly in an emerging market where you have increasing demand and increasing capacity that's something to keep an eye on.
I think one of the key points is the three plants -- first of all the on-site plant we're building for the glass company we have a strong base load with a Tonnage customer and we add some merchant capacity.
The other three facilities are in newer and emerging areas around India where we see the market growth continuing and we're excited about creating first mover advantages in those geographies as the manufacturing economy in those areas continues to grow.
So we have done some good work with our marketing teams there to understand what's there but truly that first mover advantage of those three plants which are fairly diverse geographically we think will bring loading to those facilities over time.
So a good question but these projects we're confident will load up over time.
I think the other thing P.J.
and just to add to what Simon says is that we have developed a package plant here in this business which we take and we put in.
It is not a very large plant for us.
It's about 200 tons a day.
And it enables us to go out and to get it into the market early.
It's a good efficient cycle for us and gives us a real advantage in moving in to those without creating a huge large plant to throw down in the area and produce a lot of extra capacity.
And just quickly on that what kind of hurdle rate do you use for a Merchant client in the emerging markets? It's certainly higher than the rate which we use for one within the United States or Europe because there's obviously more risk associated with that.
So we earn a higher return because we're taking a lot more risk in those areas obviously.
That's fair but can you throw us a range? I'm not going to give you a number.
But if you just think about that if you take a look at the country in which we're operating in the emerging markets typically the cost of capital in those countries is anywhere from 200 300-plus points higher than within the United States.
And then we look to earn a higher return on that a higher spread because the risk of the loading of those plants is greater.
We'll now move on to our next question from Mark Gulley.
[Soleil securities] Inc.</strong> First of all with respect to the microelectronics industry can you update us Simon on what your outlook now is for squariing the silicon prices.
I believe the last quarter it was just 5% to 10% which seems to be pretty modest now that we've seen your results in this quarter and everything that Paul talked about in terms of some of the new product cycles that are going on? Good question Mark.
So we did provide a forecast of 5% to 10% MSI growth last quarter.
Quite frankly we'd say we still see things in that range.
I think one of the dynamics quite frankly we see is that our leadership position with the industry leaders perhaps allow us to mitigate some of the seasonality that the industry might have seen.
So I think that's consistent with our forecast going forward at this point.
Inc.</strong> I guess I would have thought that if you're well positioned with industry leaders and if they're leaders that they would pull that number higher but I guess you're just not willing to go there quite yet? Well again quite frankly I think there's -- it's not just our view.
Obviously there's a lot of perspective on where the electronics industry is going.
We think that's fairly consistent with other forecasts that are out there.
So we feel pretty good about that guidance we gave last quarter.
Inc.</strong> And then with respect to Merchant prices in Europe given the higher operating rates and given higher power rates I'm a little surprised that you're not able to get the price increases that you're getting elsewhere in Asia and in the U.S.
Any thoughts on why the European pricing structure just won't move? We have actually seen it move in the past.
So we would expect it to be effective here going forward in the future here.
Just a quick note add on that that.
Actually sequentially Europe pricing was slightly positive Mark.
And our next question comes from Don Carson.
[Susquehanna Financial Group] LLLP</strong> Two questions one on the tonnage front you talked about the potential for signing some new business.
I'm just wondering if you can outline where that new business might be? I know you've signed some contracts for hydrogen in Alberta.
There's talk of reviving some oil sands projects like Fort Hills.
Is that an area of increased opportunity for you? As far as the oil sands Don we would not expect to see an order any time within the next year or so probably with that and given what's happening in those areas.
But if you take a look at the on-site area for us and where we are and looking for activities we continue to pursue jobs within China certainly is the area of the largest activity but also within the U.S.
the Middle East are also areas of activity for us too.
LLLP</strong> A follow-up on Merchant.
I mean again you got relatively low operating rates you said but you're still getting price at 3%.
Is this price a true increase in price or is it really cost recovery? And specifically can you talk about the trends in pricing on your new business signings in North American Merchant? Are they higher than your existing book? If you take a look at the signings the signing activity is very competitive.
And so in general on the new business which is coming in the prices are lower for us.
If you take a look at the price increases a lot of that is driven by cost for us and trying to recover cost at this point in time.
LLLP</strong> So that suggests that this 3% isn't sustainable or it's only sustainable to the extent that you think costs continue to go up and you try and recover them? So essentially real pricing isn't increasing then is it? What happens Don is that in this market at the loadings we're able to maintain our margins very well.
So that is the good news.
We have taken actions on cost taking action to recover costs principally our cost as power has gone up as fuel has gone.
We've been able to do a good job of being able to recover those costs.
We will continue to do that.
I think that's a very positive sign for us going out and looking at -- in trying to take a look at the future for us.
So I think the price situation within the U.S.
is in good shape and being managed well.
LLLP</strong> You talked about margins in Merchants so as you get additional volume growth there what kind of incremental margins would you get compared to your average margin at 20.3%? We're still looking at probably about a 35% average incremental margin on that business.
And we'll move on to our next question with Mike Harrison.
[First Analysis] I have sort of a different question on the Merchant business in Europe.
I was wondering if you could talk about how the Packaged Gas business there has been trending? Are you seeing any signs of improvement and what's been going on with pricing on the package side in Europe? As far as the business on price and we have gotten some price increases in that business.
Once again we're trying out there very much to recover our costs as steel costs and things like that go up.
On the volume side the volumes of that business are still depressed for us and are flat at best at this point in time.
And in the Tonnage business I was wondering if you're seeing any of your customers and this is globally any of your customers operating at rates that are high enough that we might see some operating bonuses this year? I think yes.
And we saw some in 2010 also operating bonuses.
The operating bonuses really depend upon the operations of their products not so much the operations of the base on the volume of our customers.
It really depends upon how well the availability of our plants and the reliability of our plants is.
If I could ask one more on the Electronics and Performance Materials business the margin there you said may be 100 basis points of headwind related to this inventory revaluation.
We still saw then about 200 basis points of margin pressure quarter-on-quarter despite an increase in the top line.
And I think it probably bears maybe some further color if you guys could provide it? Sure.
On the inventory impact obviously there.
And then when you look at this if you take a look at the drop in the Performance Materials sales and what we saw.
And volume decline in the area drove a good portion of those changes there too for us.
So it was related to the mix of the products in which we go through there.
And moving on we'll take Kevin McCarthy.
[Bank of America Merrill Lynch] With regard to the Merchant Gases business in Asia your volume there accelerated more than twofold to 25% from 11% in the fiscal fourth quarter.
Were there any competitor outages or other extraordinary issues that would have boosted that number? Or would you consider it a representative underlying rate? Good question Kevin.
No we didn't have any special filling in for competitors or anything like that.
Again kind of a little bit more on the price side.
We did mention some of the spot argon opportunities that we had.
But the underlying consistent growth rate was very strong.
And I guess to follow-up on the pricing side in Asia.
You mentioned LOX/LIN underlying would've been plus two versus the plus five that you reported for the region.
Is argon structurally tight? Or was that boost more transitory in nature such that you'll likely regress to the low-single digits in coming quarters? SO again this was more driven by some of the rolling power outages imposed in China.
We see those kind of have tailed off now so we wouldn't necessarily see that argon spot opportunity again.
Though I think we are extremely pleased by the base increases whether they be 2% 3% something like that.
In a high-growth region like Asia being able to deliver real pricing improvement is a great job by the team out there.
And then lastly Paul on the project pipeline with regard to the $1.8 billion size.
Could you just comment on the average returns that you're seeing? Are they flat up or down in any meaningful way as you see the activity roll through? Yes and the returns on average have stayed about the same for us if I look at that on an IRR type of return.
We'll move on to our next question with Edward Yang.
[Oppenheimer &amp; Co.] Air Products has always been overweight the energy sector relative to some of its competitors and oil prices are moving back up.
Do you have an update in terms of what your total exposure to the energy sector is at this point? If you take a look at that if you take a look at it from the business which Air Products has we have -- probably about 25% of our sales go into that area.
And on Electronics again you mentioned that the impact on segment margins from the inventory revaluation was 100 basis points but the effect on the total company was zero.
We'd just like some clarification on that.
If you take a look at that the other places which happened is that in the other areas there were some small gains and then there is an offset in corporate which occurs.
And finally on Electronics and Performance Materials pricing was flat this quarter.
And in the last four quarters or so it's been consistently negative.
So is that your expectation going forward that price should be a positive contributor going forward in that business? What we would expect is that price is not going to be a large factor going forward in the business for us either positive either up or down right now which is obviously very good news given the things which have occurred in our history here.
I think we see perhaps a moderating of the downward pressure in the Electronics particularly in the Specialty Materials business.
And so as Paul said we think that that would be stable going forward as opposed to the declines we have seen.
And we'll move on to the next question from Bob Koort.
This is Brian Maguire on for Bob.
Just a question on Slide 5 of the deck I think it's the EPS bridge from last year to this year.
I think there was about $0.02 headwind from costs.
I'm just wondering if you could just dive into some of the components of that? And maybe talk about what the impact of higher compensation or higher pension would have been in the quarter? Or what your assumptions are for the full year? Certainly Brian.
First off I mean as far as on the cost for $0.02 one of the things which you have to consider is we have a $0.25 gain in volume and only $0.02 up in costs.
The volume one is done at the contribution margins.
So this is all of the fixed costs which we had all the drivers and stuff like that.
So we're very happy with that sort of performance for us.
And then just one last one on Equipment and Energy obviously a big jump in margins there.
Part of that was just the year-over-year comp.
I wanted to get a sense of how sustainable that rate of growth is as we go a little bit further in 2011? In that area I think -- and we've talked about this before is that we sell two perpetual products in that area: the LNG heat exchangers where 100% of what we supply is value-added which is the present design; and the exchanger which is manufactured by Air Products.
So the margins in that business are higher than in the Air Separation business where we buy in a lot of the equipment and purchase equipment.
We purchase compressors heat exchangers et cetera for the customers and bring that.
So as a percent of sales the margin just is not as high in that business.
And so the margin for that business drops moves around a lot.
We're very pleased by the growth year-to-year in that business for us.
We think that's a good sign for us.
LNG has driven that growth as the mix has shifted more to LNG in this past year.
So it's a mix issue more than anything else? It is yes.
It is a mix issue.
And that could have the potential to continue for...
Yes that's right.
And the margins for the bulk of 2011 given the backlog which we have is LNG is going to be a strong growth driver throughout 2011 on the profits.
Then if we get more orders in the Air Separation area that will take margins down.
But we look at this it will also contribute profits in this business.
We don't have a lot of capital invested.
And we get payments in advance so it's a self-financing business.
And so as we look at this it's something in which we look at it on a  project-by-project basis as far as accepting or bidding on jobs.
Moving on we'll take our next question from David Manthey.
[Robert W.
Baird] Of the 12% volume growth in the Tonnage business can you tell us approximately how much this quarter was due to new plant startups on that growth rate? And then if you could tell us about 2011 based on the pipeline if you have an approximation of what might be additive to growth? Yes.
If we take a look at 2011 for us we probably think about half of the growth overall is going to come from that.
And that's what we saw in Q1.
At this time we have no further questions.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Moore for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks John and to everybody who joined us on the call today.
Please go to the website to access a replay of this call beginning at 2:00 p.m.
today.
Again thank you for joining us and have a nice day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for attending.
Good morning and welcome to Air Products and Chemicals Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also this telephone conference presentation and the comments made on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
Air Products will be recording this teleconference and may publish all or a portion of the teleconference.
No other recordings or distribution of this telephone conference by any other party are permitted without the expressed written permission of Air Products.
Your participation indicates your agreement.
Beginning today's call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Moore you may begin.
Thank you Elizabeth.
Good morning and welcome to Air Products Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Teleconference.
This is Simon Moore.
Today our CFO Paul Huck and I will review our Q2 results and outlook for the remainder of 2011.
We issued our earnings release this morning.
It is available on our website along with the slides for this teleconference.
Please go to airproducts.com and click on the scrolling red banner to access the materials.
Instructions for accessing the replay of this call beginning at 2:00 p.m.
Eastern Time are also available on the website.
Please turn to Slide 2.
As always today's teleconference will contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations regarding important risk factors.
Please review the information on these slides and at the end of today's earnings release explaining factors that may affect these expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Paul for a review of our financials.
Thanks Simon.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Please turn to Slide #3.
With half of our fiscal year behind us we are well on our way towards delivering on our 2011 financial goals.
For the quarter sales of $2.5 billion were up 11% versus prior year on growth in our Electronics and Performance Materials Tonnage and Merchant segments.
Underlying sales increased 12% on 11% higher volumes and 1% higher pricing.
Sequentially sales were 5% higher.
Underlying sales were up 3% with volumes contributing 2% and pricing adding 1%.
This sequential improvement was driven primarily by our Electronics and Performance Materials segment and our Merchant Gases segment.
Operating income of $425 million increased 17% from prior year primarily on higher volumes.
Our operating margins improved to 17% up 80 basis points versus prior year.
We remain on track to deliver on our 17% goal for fiscal 2011.
For the quarter net income increased 16% and diluted earnings per share increased by 15% each versus prior year.
Return on capital employed for the quarter improved to 13.3% up 110 basis points.
Turning to Slide 4 for a review of the factors that affected the quarter's performance in terms of earnings per share.
Our adjusted earnings per share increased by 15% or $0.18 per share.
Higher volumes in the Electronics and Performance Materials Tonnage and Merchant segments increased earnings per share by $0.27 year-on-year.
The impact of pricing combined with energy and raw material costs attracted $0.02.
Costs were $0.04 unfavorable as our productivity gains were more than offset by higher operating maintenance and distribution costs particularly in our Merchant segment.
Currency translation and foreign exchange netted to a $0.01 unfavorable impact and the higher tax rate and higher shares outstanding cost us a $0.01 each.
In March we announced an 18% dividend increase marking 29 consecutive years of increases.
We are all proud of this record.
Also in this past quarter we repurchased $350 million of our stock about 3.8 million shares.
We have $300 million remaining on our repurchase authorization.
In summary this was another quarter of solid gains in sales earnings margins and returns.
Now I'll turn the call over to Simon to review our business segment results.
Simon? Thanks Paul.
Please turn to Slide 5 Merchant Gases.
Merchant Gases sales of just over $1 billion were up 10% versus prior year.
Underlying sales improved by 9% on 8% higher volumes and positive pricing.
Currency increased sales by 1%.
Year-on-year sales improvement was driven by volume growth across the segment with the greatest improvement in Asia.
Sequentially sales were up 3% with underlying sales up 2% even with the lunar New Year holiday.
Merchant Gases operating income of $185 million was up 4% versus prior year and down 8% sequentially.
Segment operating margin of 18.3% was down 100 basis points versus prior year and down 200 basis points sequentially.
Versus last year volume leverage was more than offset by higher operating maintenance and distribution costs and lower pricing in European healthcare.
We had a number of plant operating challenges that increased maintenance costs and resulted in a higher distribution cost as we reallocated our supply chain to meet customers' needs.
Versus prior quarter the same cost impacts combined with the smaller sequential volume increase drove the margin decline.
We believe these challenges are largely behind us and expect operating margins to improve through the rest of the year.
Let me now provide a few additional comments by region.
Please turn to Slide 6.
In North America sales improved 5% versus prior year.
Volumes were up 3% on growth across all product lines.
Pricing was positive with a 2% broad-based increased led by Helium.
LOX/LIN pricing was up 2%.
LOX/LIN plant loading remained in the mid-70s.
During the quarter we announced plans to construct a new liquid nitrogen production facility in Mooreland Oklahoma to further strengthen our leadership position in supplying the region's oil field services market.
We also announced an increase in merchant oxygen and argon production at Middletown Ohio.
This facility and expansion are fully integrated with an increase of our on-site oxygen supply.
These 2 opportunities were driven by specific opportunities to create value.
As always we will carefully consider loadings as we manage capacity going forward.
In Europe sales increased 3% versus last year.
Volumes were up 4% with strong liquid bulk growth particularly liquid oxygen and nitrogen up 9%.
Packaged gas volumes were up slightly and healthcare volumes were flat.
Pricing was down 1% with positive packaged gas pricing offset by unfavorable healthcare and liquid bulk pricing.
Our LOX/LIN plant loading remained in the low 80s.
In Asia sales were up 30% versus last year with underlying sales up 25%.
Volumes were up 18% with strength across all products led by the electronics market.
Pricing was also strong up 7% the highest increase in over 4 years.
We were able to continue to take advantage of the higher spot argon pricing in China that we mentioned last quarter.
LOX/LIN pricing stayed strong across Asia up 3%.
Plant loadings were in the mid-80s with a slight dip through the lunar New Year.
We will continue to bring new capacity onstream over the next few quarters.
Please turn to Slide 7 Tonnage Gases.
Tonnage gases sales of $799 million increased 6% versus last year with volumes up 10% in energy and raw material pass-through decreasing sales by 5%.
The volume increase was primarily driven by our refinery hydrogen customers.
Sequentially sales were up 4% on flat volumes and higher energy and raw material pass-through.
New plant volume growth was offset by scheduled outages.
These maintenance outages are scheduled to coincide with our customer outages to eliminate any impact on their operations.
Operating income of $121 million rose 13% from the prior year on higher new plant volumes and increased operating efficiencies particularly in our Gulf Coast system.
Operating margin of 15.1% increased 90 basis points versus prior year due to improved operating efficiency and lower natural gas costs pass-through.
Moving to new business.
We announced an increase of our pipeline hydrogen supply to Marathon Petroleum in Garyville Louisiana.
We are pleased with this latest expansion of our relationship as we have been supplying this refinery for almost 20 years.
Marathon will continue to benefit from the reliability and flexibility of the Air Products Gulf Coast hydrogen pipeline system.
This is the world's largest hydrogen pipeline.
As I mentioned in the Merchant discussion we also announced the expansion of our facility in Middletown Ohio including a new air separation unit and a new hydrogen production plant.
We have been supplying pipeline and Merchant customers from this facility since the 1960s.
Please turn to Slide 8 Electronics and Performance Materials.
Segment sales of $576 million were up 28% compared to last year on 23% higher volumes and 3% positive pricing.
Sequentially sales were up 9% on 6% higher volumes and 2% higher prices.
Electronics sales were up 33% compared to last year and up 6% sequentially as the industry continued to demonstrate strong growth.
This sequential sales increase is particularly notable given the typical slowdown for Lunar New Year.
Electronics Specialty Materials sales increased 16% versus prior year and 4% sequentially.
Ongoing Tonnage sales were up 18% versus prior year and 3% sequentially and our Equipment business was up significantly versus prior year and sequentially.
The Electronics Specialty Materials pricing was essentially flat versus last year and last quarter.
Performance Materials sales increased 22% versus last year with volumes up 16% and pricing up 5%.
Our pricing actions successfully recovered increased raw material costs.
Sequentially sales rose 14% with a stronger-than-typical rebound from normal Q1 seasonality.
Segment operating income of $92 million is the highest ever for this segment up 61% versus prior year primarily due to volume leverage and the positive effect of the Electronics restructuring actions taken last year.
Income was up 33% sequentially due to volume leverage and the inventory revaluation in Q1.
The segment operating margin of 15.9% improved 330 basis points from last year due to higher volumes and improved productivity.
Sequentially margins were up to 280 basis points on higher volumes and the Q1 inventory revaluation.
In terms of the Japan tragedy our first thoughts go to the victims and their recovery efforts.
We did not see any significant impact on our business during Q2.
In terms of new business last month we announced a new nitrogen plant and pipeline at our Hwaseong Korea site to supply Samsung Electronics fabs in the Hwaseong-Giheung area.
And yesterday we announced an expansion of our Carlsbad California electronic materials development and production facility supporting product development process demonstration new product scale-up and performance testing to create the next-generation materials our electronics customers needs.
Now please turn to Slide 9 Equipment and Energy.
Sales of $114 million were down 5% versus prior year and up 1% sequentially reflecting lower ASU activity.
Operating income of $23 million increased 24% versus prior year and 11% sequentially due to higher LNG activity.
Our backlog is lower both versus prior year and sequentially.
We expect it to improve by the end of the year.
We did announce the new LNG technology and equipment order from JGC Corporation for the 2 million ton per year Donggi-Senoro LNG project in Indonesia.
Air Products' leading LNG technology has been supporting projects in Indonesia since the late 1970s.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Paul.
Thanks Simon.
Now if you'll turn to Slide 10.
I'd like to share my thoughts on our outlook.
Our guidance for quarter three is for earnings per share of $1.42 to $1.47 which is a year-over-year growth of 11% to 15% and is based on the following factors.
On the positive side we expect to see increased earnings sequentially from the following areas.
We expect the manufacturing economy globally to continue its gradual recovery.
This along with some seasonal boost should result in higher sequential volumes in Merchant Gases and Electronics and Performance Materials segments.
We also expect better cost performance in our Merchant segment as the operating and related distribution impacts should not repeat this quarter.
And our fiscal quarter three tax rate will be lower as we anticipate closing some open tax audits.
Our tax rate next quarter should be 24% to 25%.
For the year we expect the rate to come in towards the lower end of our original guidance range of 25% to 26%.
Partially offsetting these sequential improvements in Tonnage results will be down sequentially.
We expect that our operating bonuses will be lower as these bonuses are tied to contract year end and quarter two is our peak bonus quarter.
Also quarter three will be the highest quarter for maintenance spending this year.
As Simon told you we coincide our maintenance outage timing with our customer plant shutdowns.
For quarter four we expect significantly higher operating income in Tonnage.
And in Equipment and Energy we expect lower results as our air separation unit backlog is currently low.
As a result we expect operating income in the second half of the year will be about half of what we recorded in the first half.
As Simon mentioned we expect to add orders to our backlog by fiscal year end.
To date we have not experienced any significant business impacts from the Japan tragedy.
Japan represents only about 2% of our revenue.
While our electronics customers are continuing to operate at high utilization rates there is still some uncertainty on the potential global supply chain impact.
On balance we do not expect any material impact on our business and have reflected this in our guidance.
For fiscal year 2011 the underlying assumptions from the beginning of the year remain unchanged.
Our capital expenditure guidance also remains unchanged at $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion up from last year's $1.3 billion.
With half of our fiscal year completed we're raising our earnings per share guidance increasing our full year guidance range to $5.65 to $5.75 13% to 15% growth over last year.
Now let me wrap up.
With the first half of our fiscal year behind us we are off to a great start in 2011 with sales and earnings continuing to grow.
We also continue to improve our operating margin and our return on capital.
As I mentioned we are all proud of the fact that we increased our dividend by 18% marking 29 consecutive years of increases.
We are confident that we can continue to drive strong growth and higher returns over our planning horizon.
Before the recession we generated annual top line growth of 14% from 2004 through 2008 with underlying growth of 9%.
As we have emerged from the recession we have seen this underlying growth rate increase and have consistently beaten our competitors.
We expect that our revenue growth will continue this strong pace because of the following factors: First with the world experiencing higher energy costs and more environmental pressures we are seeing industrial gases being used in more and more processes applications and industries as companies look to increase energy efficiency and improved environmental performance.
Second as the manufacturing grows in the emerging markets to serve the needs of their large populations we are seeing industrial gas usage grow significantly in those countries.
Finally Air Products' leading position in the electronics hydrogen and energy markets coupled with our leading position in a number of the Asian countries makes us the industrial gas company that has the best opportunity to take advantage of these macro trends.
We've also demonstrated our commitment to improve returns by increasing our return on capital employed by about 300 basis points over the past 6 years.
We believe we have a number of opportunities to further expand our returns.
Some examples are: As we look to the future we still have operating leverage in our existing facilities.
We are also pursuing a number of programs to improve the way we price our products simplify the way we do business with our customers and suppliers improve the efficiency and output of our plants and lower the capital costs of our investments.
We are excited by these opportunities and believe that they will make us the best investment in our industry going forward.
To find out more about what we are doing and what our long-term goals are please join us at our investor conference on June 9 for a day of presentations questions-and-answers and interactive discussions regarding Air Products strategy opportunities and outlook.
You will have a chance to discuss our businesses and interface with a broad cross section of our management team.
If you're interested in attending please contact our Investor Relations team.
Thank you and now I'll turn the call over to Elizabeth to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question this morning will come from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Paul the margin trend in Electronics up 280 basis points sequentially certainly more than we would have anticipated can you elaborate on the drivers there? And now that it's eclipsed to your 15% goal should we be thinking of this new level as sustainable? It doesn't sound like you anticipate meaningful impacts from Japan.
Yes.
Kevin a couple of questions which you have there.
First regarding Electronics and the Electronics margins.
We certainly intend to continue to drive margins in that business.
The thing which has driven them are two things: First we have very strong volume growth not only from our existing product but some of the new products which we've introduced.
And those new products come in at a very nice margin for us.
So that has helped and the leverage on our facilities certainly has helped.
Second as everyone knows we have put that group through a lot of changes over the past few years and those changes have paid off in increased margins and better operations for that facility for their facilities and the way they operate.
So yes we do think that we have a sustainable model in there and that we will continue to experience good growth.
With regard to Japan from an Electronics standpoint we don't -- to date we have not seen any real impacts.
We watched our volumes very closely through April.
Our volumes look good with things.
We've talked our customers.
Our customers continue to operate.
There's obviously people who are concerned about supply chain.
Apple recently commented that they do not see any issues with it.
That's good news from our standpoint because they are downstream people who produce units.
And so we hope that as we go forward and that it won't be a problem for us.
And then second question if I may Paul on Merchant margins you had 100 basis points erosion year-over-year 200 there sequentially.
I guess I heard a number of issues on Lunar New Year distribution costs the new [ph] healthcare.
Can you help us understand how much of that pressure you would view as transitory versus potentially more durable through the balance of the fiscal year? And so with regard to margins we are certainly not happy with the results which have come through on the Merchant area.
If you look at it we did get the volume leverage that we have had.
We've had good volume growth in the business here.
We lost the volume leverage principally because of a couple of items.
Number one we had some operating problems at facilities which caused us actually distribution cost to move product around higher cost to operate and maintain those facilities and fix those problems.
Now some of those costs will go away in the next quarter but there will be more costs which need to go away in the longer term to get that.
The second factor is that we have not delivered in this quarter we have not delivered the productivity gains which we have planned upon.
And that's something which we need to fix and get moving forward.
We constantly have inflation in this business as anyone in any business has.
We aim to more than offset our inflation on the productivity end.
We did not do that this quarter obviously and we fell back a little bit.
And so we are attempting to come out of that.
Will margins jump back up to the quarter one levels in quarter three? We're going to try to get them back up but that's a large test for us.
I will tell you that right now.
But we do expect to start to see continued improvement as we look to the future here and see margins improve on a sequential basis in quarter three and in quarter four.
Thank you Paul.
We'll take our next question from John McNulty with Crdit Suisse.
Just two quick questions.
On the Electronics front it looks like the volumes came in noticeably higher than what I guess you had guided for the full year or at the beginning of the year.
So I'm wondering how we should be thinking about the growth going forward based on what you're hearing from your customers? Yes I mean and we expect that the Electronics volumes to continue to grow.
Now whether we will see as strong as seasonal impact in quarter three and quarter four as we have in other years I think remains to be seen.
But we are certainly expecting to see volumes grow sequentially as we go into the last half of the year.
Simon I don't know if you have any other comments on what you've seen.
No thanks Paul.
I think just another thing to point out to really from an MSI standpoint we would still be consistently aligned with our original guidance and I think that lines out well with the third-party measures.
I think some of the things that we talked about that continue to allow us to grow at a higher level than MSI is our strength with the leading producers in that industry our strength in the leading regions and then beginning to see some benefit from some of the smaller faster-growing areas in the LED and TV.
So MSI guidance kind of consistent with where we said but we see the opportunity to grow faster than MSI.
Okay great.
And then with regard to your LNG equipment business.
It sounds like the backlog you're expecting it to start firming up later on this year.
In terms of discussions that you've had with some of your potential customers how are you thinking about the opportunities now in the U.S.
with companies and regions looking to monetize this strain of natural gas? And so regarding the LNG equipment backlog.
The LNG equipment backlog for us is strong.
As far as the equipment backlog our shortfall to what our plans were exist in the air separation plant orders.
So the LNG equipment businesses it looks very good.
As far as going and trying to export and with LNG out of the U.S.
there are people who are taking looks at that.
These projects do take a long time to develop and are subject to a lot of ups and downs with things.
We will go out and support those projects and look at those things.
I think -- this is just a personal one for me.
I think it's going to be tough to get one and to get a permit within the United States to export LNG but we'll see what happens.
Okay great.
Thanks for the color.
Our next question will come from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Yes Paul a quick question on your -- this negative operating leverage in margin.
I understand you had some maintenance issues and all that.
If you exclude those issues for 10% top line growth what kind of operating income growth should you see? Yes well if you take a look at how much operating income growth from a sales growth if we see our sales this quarter so if you just take our sales this quarter we're up about $90 million from the past year.
And so if I then take a look at that and say "Well how much was due to pass-through of higher cost and raw material cost?" And that's about $11 million.
Currency took us up about $12 million on those things.
And so the growth in volume for us was about $70 million when you look at that just on a rough number.
We would expect operating income to grow somewhere around $20 million or so based upon that P.J.
for that.
So it's somewhere around 0.3x the sales whatever the sales growth would be but that gives you some numbers which you can work on from there.
And we didn't see this this quarter.
I mean to be honest with you we didn't see it and we're not very happy with that.
Okay that's fair enough.
And can you discuss your overall project pipeline not just LNG but overall backlog of on-site projects and...
Sure yes.
How is that progressing? I mean is it accelerating? Is it sort of flat in terms of its growth? Yes and so I'll turn to the equipment backlog which we actually tracked.
We tracked these two things on a separate basis.
The equipment backlog is one of aspect of things and the capital project backlog is another aspect of things.
So if you take a look at our capital backlog for us our capital backlog is about $2 billion at the end of this quarter.
At the end of last quarter I think I told you on the call it was $1.8 billion.
So we are up over 10%.
So we have seen some award activity occur in this quarter which is good news for us because we were expecting that stuff to occur.
It is principally on-site projects.
So when I look at that backlog three quarters of it is on the Tonnage side 15% in the Merchant area and 10% in Electronics for us as we go forward here.
It's spread across the world.
So we have projects in North America in Asia and Europe also for us.
I think maybe the other point then too would be as always you heard Paul reaffirm our perspective on CapEx guidance for FY '11 which will be up 15% to 30% over last year.
If I may just ask one more quick question.
You are announcing some new Merchant plants -- Oklahoma Ohio.
I think last quarter you announced a couple of plants in India.
I mean are you seeing your competitors and you getting more into Merchant business or maybe these Merchant plants? Well as far as the announcements within the United States as Simon said to you they were opportunities which presented us.
One was around an on-site supply.
So people are going to do that and the other one was for a particular market and the opportunity for injection for LIN for frac-ing for the oil field services area.
And so as far as the U.S.
is concerned we aren't seeing a whole lot of activity with people announcing plants there.
I think we are seeing activity with people announcing plants in Asia with those things but that goes with the manufacturing growth.
Okay this is not a big merchant capital cycle coming up? No it is not.
No I think the disappointment [ph] -- see if you take a look most of our capacity most of our capacity P.J.
comes as we look to the future here.
Capacity additions are going to be in Asia.
They're going to be around the emerging markets and particularly China.
India will have some but China will have more.
China is going to be the biggest market for industrial gases out here in the future someday with the amount of the manufacturing that is done there.
And so as that manufacturing needs grow they drive a need for more and more gases from the Merchant side.
And so that growth is normal our operating rates mid 80s to high 80s across the board in those countries.
So we are in very good shape there from a loading capacity standpoint.
And we need new capacity as we project out in the future just to take the normal market growth.
You got manufacturing still growing at a double-digit rate in China.
It's over 10% this year.
Good.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Your operating income year-over-year was up 24% from 3 40 to 4 20 but your equity affiliate's income was down from $32 million to I don't know $31 million and change.
Why such a difference in performance? Well one of the things which we did as you know we have an equity affiliate which we dropped out in this last quarter.
So that's a slight drop with things for us.
Our equity affiliates are performing well we think.
And as we look at it around the world we think we are in good shape there.
I think we did see if you will a growth in those ventures in sort of base business aspect of it.
The reported results there was a number of things that Paul mentioned in terms of changes of ownerships some legal costs inventory valuations.
So the key I think is that those ventures continue to perform and grow as we expect them to.
Alright.
And then lastly your depreciation charges both for the quarter and for the first six months are flat at about $435 million but your CapEx last year was $1 billion which is above depreciation.
And this year you're doing whatever it is $1.5 billion.
Why are the depreciation and amortization charges growing faster? I think one of the things which you're seeing is as we look at this you're seeing more and more on-site investment.
If you look at our total PP&amp;E in the ground more and more on-site investment which is 15- to 20-year depreciation.
And we're seeing roll-off Merchant investment which tends to be more in the 10 to 15 type of cycle.
So as you see that shift within the company as we've gone to be more and more of an on-site tonnage company you're seeing that the replacement of the depreciation is you're seeing assets which we don't fully depreciate at that 10- to 15-year life.
And some things are going to the 15- to 20-year life.
Okay thank you very much.
Our next question will come from Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> This is Rob Walker on for Laurence.
I guess first question in terms of the upside to your prior 2011 guidance.
I'm just curious if you could break out what you are now expecting for the benefits from new project startups and operating leverage in Merchant if there's any change to those prior numbers? Well on the new project startups most of that is in the Tonnage area and we don't break it out by segment Rob.
But we still think we're going to see about $0.35 a share year-on-year from that.
Probably the increase in the guidance comes from the loading being better and volumes being better on the existing assets particularly Electronics and Performance Materials.
Inc.</strong> And then a follow-up on the Electronics strength.
Kind of using the rough math you laid out for Merchant incremental margins it looks like  incremental margins in that segment were 44% year-on-year.
How much of that would you attribute to structural improvements and kind of just what would a normalized margin be in that segment? You were talking about Electronics or you said...
Inc.</strong> Yes Electronics just kind of taking in the volume growth year-on-year about $100 million and then our profits up about $44 million.
Just kind of how much of that is structural improvement and then kind of what would a normalized incremental be in that segment? Okay if you take a look on the margins on an incremental basis they are probably around 40% in Electronics.
On the Performance Materials end of the business they aren't as high.
It's not as capital-intense.
So they tend to be closer to a 30% range for us.
And then what you're also seeing year-on-year is the improvement on the cost reductions which we've done.
And the efforts for those people to save cost should increase their margins which they've done a very good job on.
Inc.</strong> And then just finally on Merchant as we see rates increase as you're seeing improved loading is there potential or I guess how do you assess the potential to start seeing sort of 2% to 3% growth in pricing in that segment? And with regard to pricing in the Merchant area I think if you look at the U.S.
for us and where the loading is we are not at the point where I think you're going to see real price increase.
However we are determined to get recovery of our costs.
And so we are implementing surcharges in the Merchant area within the U.S.
In Europe as I've said before prices do need to go up.
It's a competitive market obviously.
But the margins which we have there are not satisfactory and one of the solutions to that -- it's not the only solution -- has to be that we have to get some of our customers to pay more.
We got to get costs out in that area.
And as you look at Asia I think you've seen prices go up.
And we would expect that to continue.
Now some of the increases which you saw this year for the first half get around the shortage of liquid argon which have occurred.
But underlying we have seen good strong growth of about 2% or so in LOX/LIN which is the base product in those areas and I think that is something which should sustain here going forward.
And Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial has the next question.
LLLP</strong> Paul a couple of questions.
One you've met your margin goal and obviously you would have exceeded had it not been for the setbacks in Merchant and return on capital as you say has improved 300 basis points.
Given your revenue growth that you talked about as being better than your peers going forward what do you think some reasonable new targets are for return on capital and for operating margins? And then just a smaller question on Electronics for Simon.
I understand that your largest NF3 competitor in Japan has had power availability issues is telling customers they won't be up and running fully until October is this leading to any spot pricing opportunities in specialty electronic materials? Okay Don and first regarding the goals and we will have comments about the goals on June 9.
I think they will get everyone excited.
We think we have a great opportunity as I mentioned here at the end here both in growth and increasing return on capital for us.
But you have to just stand by and come see us on June 9.
Simon? All right thanks.
Good question on NF3.
So obviously there's a lot of facilities in Japan and this is a broader comment than just NF3 that are affected not only by any potential damage but also by rolling power outages.
SO we don't know exactly what our competitors are doing but NF3 is a type of process where you'd have a very difficult time to run the plant if you were still experiencing rolling power outages.
So we have seen increased requests for product from our customers.
I would say that NF3 pricing specifically was slightly positive versus last year and also slightly positive sequentially.
So some of the things we've talked about over the last few quarters about mitigating the downward pressure we are starting to see some positive effects there.
Now keep in mind NF3 is roughly around 10% of our Electronics sales.
And so while that is a flat to slightly up we also have some of the newer products that we are pleased our customers are adopting and we have shown them some price volume curves.
So on balance as we've said before for the Electronics segment we'll probably see stable pricing going forward.
The other point to make about NF3 is we typically have this under contracts.
Now they're not as long as the contracts in the other aspects of our business so about a year.
So we're certainly honoring our contracts and we're looking to manage the price and availability with our customer relationships as best as we can.
LLLP</strong> And Simon where are you on NF3 utilizations Korea running flat out and you scaled back hometown or just wondering what kind of interim volume opportunities you might have? Yes we are running pretty high rates right now on NF3.
As we continue to line out the Korea plant as it's a new plant we continue to look for and find ways to squeeze some more capacity out but we're running at a pretty high operating rate right now on the two plants.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then one additional question.
European healthcare looked attractive for a while but it seems obviously with fiscal pressures there that reimbursements are getting tougher.
I'm just wondering whether strategically your view as to whether you should be in homecare in Europe has changed given some of those ongoing pressures? Is it going to start looking more like the U.S.
used to look? With that Don and regarding the European healthcare it's been a good successful business for us.
There has been price pressures.
That is nothing new given the price pressures which we've been dealing with for a long time here.
We matched that with reductions on costs for us and we look at businesses and we look to make the right decisions.
There aren't any sacred cows for us as far as the business but we basically don't comment or try to speculate on this business.
It's been a successful business for us.
We'll now hear from David Begleiter from Deutsche Bank.
Paul you mentioned Tonnage would be down in Q3 sequentially due to lower bonuses.
Could you quantify the impact of the bonuses in Q2 and how much down do you expect Q3 to be? As far as how much of bonuses we don't actually comment exactly on the -- and give amounts of the bonuses.
Year-to-year the impact of bonuses is not huge Dave.
So what this is is it's really something which gets to be a cycle for us.
And we have the peak period as I said in the second quarter.
If we look at going forward on the Tonnage segment with the additional maintenance activity which we're going to see and also due to the decline in bonuses.
In aggregate we'll probably down pretty close to what our Q1 results were in that segment for us.
And Paul just on the backlog the $2 billion backlog should that be up by year end and should that be even higher in 2012 level? Yes.
Yes and that is our goal.
We think that there are lots of opportunities for us.
This always gets around the issue of trying to time the projects.
So trying to predict the backlog is always very difficult for us.
And we'll have more to say on the CapEx guidance as we get closer to 2012.
But our hope is that our 2012 CapEx actually grows from 2011.
That's certainly the thing which as we look to the future is something which we see those opportunities for us.
Paul lastly on North American Merchant pricing what does it take to get higher real pricing? Is it just higher operating rates or something else? No.
For us I think it's that the operating rates in the business really have to go up here right now.
Thank you very much.
We'll now hear from Mike Harrison with First Analysis.
I was wondering if you could go through in a little bit more detail exactly what the costs were that you encountered what the operational issues were that you encountered in your Merchant business? And also address whether diesel higher diesel prices were an impact in the quarter and kind of remind us how your surcharges work on the diesel front? Sure okay.
If you take a look at the cost one of the things which we looked at and the amount of what the shortfall for us was to get to kind of the margin where our leverage would have showed up as [ph]  flow-through we were short about $15 million in profit in an estimate which we did here.
About half of that is unrecovered inflation where we didn't get the productivity savings which we were planning on getting for us.
The remainder of that then sits in 2 other areas.
The first is the cost of additional power and the variable costs to move product around from an operation standpoint.
In other words you've got a plant out in a particular place so you got to move product to longer distances to serve the customer.
We have the capacity in most products to be able to do that.
So we didn't lose a lot in volume.
We lost some in volume but we didn't lose a lot.
And then the additional fixed cost to fix the plants and maintain the plants and stuff like that that was the other half of those things.
Those are split about even when you look at that.
With regard to pricing overall in this segment we about recovered the variable cost increases which we saw year-on-year for those things.
So pricing we can pick on certain areas in certain regions.
But on net overall it looked good.
There is opportunity for us to increase margins with the pricing as I covered before particularly in places like Europe and in some of the recovery areas of some of the cost.
With regard to the surcharges on diesel costs and things like that diesel was not a huge issue for us in this quarter as I said.
But our surcharges typically will go on the way they lag by a month or so for us before we can get that out to the customer.
And it varies contract by contract.
All right thanks.
And then in the discussion of Electronics margin it seem to be that you omitted mentioning that pricing went positive there for the first time in a couple of years.
I was wondering if that was a component of the margin improvement as well.
Is demand strong enough that we're going to continue to see positive pricing into the second half of FY '11.
And is it primarily market-driven or are some of the restructuring and internal changes that you guys have made also an important factor in getting pricing positive in Electronics? As far as the pricing I'm going to put that to Simon because he ran the business in which you're talking about the pricing for things.
If you look at this if you look at this overall from a margin standpoint pricing has typically been a big drag for us on margin.
It isn't a drag anymore on margin for us.
But the big factors for us which you've seen this have been the two factors that we talked about are volume and the efforts which we've done to really get real sustainable productivity gains across this segment.
But Simon why don't you take the answer on pricing there? A good point.
And then again just a couple of things we said on the Performance Materials side we were successful with the price increases we took out recovering additional costs on the Performance Materials side.
So good work by the team there.
On the Electronics side we said that the Specialty Materials and obviously as Paul said historically that's the area that has the most variability and has had the most downward pressure.
That was flat versus last year and basically flat versus last quarter in Specialty Materials.
So that's a big change from the historical direction that this business has been taking.
I gave you a little bit more color specifically on NF3.
But again we have a suite of products in this area and I think we'd say stable pricing going forward as we continue to drive productivity allows us the opportunity to expand margins.
All right.
And then last question for you Paul is what was the diluted share counts as of the end of the quarter? And have you done any additional share repurchases since you announced the $350 million in mid-March? And we have not done any additional repurchases of shares since then.
Let me just get you the diluted share count.
I gotta look at that.
So we're on the same page here Mike.
We're talking about the average for the quarter right? Because that's the number that actually gets used right? So at the end of Q2 that was 218.8.
That was down a little bit from the end of Q1.
The share purchases we did were primarily in the second half of the quarter.
So you'll see maybe about a third of that effect in this quarter and you'll see the full effect of that in the next quarter.
I guess that's what I'm trying to get to is kind of what's a good number to use for next quarter for the diluted share count? As Paul said we bought back about 3.8 million shares.
We do have as you know the option exercises do continue to expand those number of shares as well.
So again I think we'd see about 2/3 more than we saw in this last quarter.
If you look at that I think Mike a good number to use will be maybe about $217 million -- $217.7 million to $217.8 million right around there when you just take the number.
So down by 1 million shares or so.
And we'll now move to our next question that will come from Mike Sison with KeyBanc.
In terms of oil moving up here to these levels.
Has that helped the Base Refinery Hydrogen business and any thoughts on -- is projects in oil sands or other areas potentially could pick up for you? Yes.
And with the increase in oil prices I think if the increase in oil prices is sustained I think it helps the oil sands.
So I think that it makes it more attractive.
It makes the economics work better for us.
And with regard to the Refinery Hydrogen business we do not see that respond to oil prices on the spot basis.
Okay.
In terms of 2012 I know it's a little bit early but can you help us understand the momentum that you see in terms of let's say new Tonnage projects coming onstream? You still have operating rates at levels that could continue to improve and maybe the potential for Electronics to continue to improve? Yes.
I think you outlined a lot of the things which we do until...
We'll talk more about this at the investor conference as we talk about our goals going forward.
But I think we are very excited about continued strong improvement in 2012.
We've got -- we still have loading which we can do.
We've got projects which are coming onstream projects from this year get the full-year effect.
We'll have projects coming onstream in 2012 also for us.
And we think that sustains out into the future.
Okay great.
One last quick question in terms of North American Europe volumes do you see them accelerating into the second half of the year or sort of staying.
In these low single-digit levels? I think as far as the gains in volumes in Europe I think those -- we are pleased with those.
I think the gains in the U.S.
I think we would expect to start seeing them accelerating.
Mark Gulley with Soleil Securities has the next question.
Inc.</strong> A lot of talk about U.S.
Merchant today.
With the low operating rates in the low 70s would one of the opportunities to improve margin and productivity be to shut down some of your oldest least efficient plants to raise margins there? Yes Mark I think one of the things in which you can be assured of is that we look at and run our plants to give the best margin to us in the near term.
We can certainly do that and do that all the time.
I think as we go forward and look at this we  think there is still growth which occurs here.
And so that's something which we can take advantage of here and we think we have the opportunity to load.
Inc.</strong> Well as a follow up if your operating rates are let's say in the low 70s and let's say you want to aim for I'll just a pick number the 85 to 90 area it would take years to get there given your volume growth rates.
So am I missing something in terms of the opportunity for capacity declines? It depends on what you see those opportunities in the U.S.
being.
I mean we still see a fairly decent growth within the U.S.
from a manufacturing standpoint.
So we're predicting the growth rates in the manufacturing end to be 5% or so going forward in the future.
And if we get a multiple of that we ought to be there.
We ought to be up higher in operating rates.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then in your concluding remarks you talked about some of the growth opportunities and you talked about the fact that you have enjoyed some very good volume growth historically.
Without giving away your Investor Day can you kind of highlight for '12 the opportunities for volume growth that you're most excited about? You're right Mark I'm not going to give the Investor Day because I want everyone to come for this because we think we've got a good story for people and it's worth coming to.
But if you look at those opportunities for us and these will be even longer term as we look at the emerging markets we certainly see great opportunities and we're very happy with our position both from a Merchant and on-site business in these emerging markets and the product offerings which we have and the applications which we have to serve those markets.
I think you'll be excited by those things going forward here.
And then obviously also the improvements of returns for us which we've been working very hard at and we continue to focus on.
We'll take our next question from Robert Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Paul I think you mentioned that you believe your portfolio the Asian exposure of Electronics et cetera gives you a more attractive opportunity for investors.
Have you considered over the long term sizing that?  How much faster do you think you can grow than the gases market? Sure and if you come to the Investor Day we'll have some things and we will talk to you about that very opportunity.
Can you tempt me more specifically now? As far as that is concerned sure.
We think that overall from those things we can grow faster than our investors by 1% or 2%.
Sustained which is a lot when you look at that.
I would encourage you to have some data behind that because I think generally investors don't share that perception.
So I think that would be pretty...
I agree with that.
Thanks.
And ladies and gentlemen that is all the time we have for questions today.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Moore for any closing comments.
Thanks Elizabeth.
Thank you everybody for joining us.
Please go to our website to access a replay of this call beginning at 2:00 p.m.
today and have a nice day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to Air Products &amp; Chemicals' Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also this telephone conference presentation and the comments made on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
Air Products will be recording this teleconference and may publish all or a portion of the teleconference.
No other recording or redistribution of this telephone conference by any other party are permitted without the express written permission of Air Products.
Your participation indicates your agreement.
Beginning today's call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Moore you may begin.
Thank you Augusta.
Good morning and welcome to Air Products' Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Teleconference.
This is Simon Moore.
Today our CFO Paul Huck and I will review our Q3 results and outlook for the remainder of 2011.
We issued our earnings release this morning.
It is available on our website along with the slides for this teleconference.
Please go to airproducts.com to access the materials.
Instructions for accessing the replay of this call beginning at 2 p.m.
Eastern Time are also available on the website.
Please turn to Slide 2.
As always today's teleconference will contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations regarding important risk factors.
Please review the information on these slides and at the end of today's earnings release explaining factors that may affect these expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Paul for a review of our financials.
Thanks Simon.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Please turn to Slide #3.
For the quarter sales of $2.6 billion were up 14% versus prior year.
Underlying sales increased 7% on 6% higher volumes primarily in our Electronics and Performance Materials and Tonnage segments and 1% higher pricing.
Favorable currency translation contributed 5%.
Sequentially sales were 3% higher mainly due to currency.
And while we did see sequential volume growth in our Electronics and Performance Materials and Tonnage segments Merchant Gases volumes were flat sequentially and Equipment sales declined.
Operating income of $417 million increased 11% from prior year primarily due to higher volumes.
Our operating margin of 16.2% declined 40 basis points versus prior year and 80 basis points sequentially due to higher operating costs in our Merchant segment and planned maintenance costs in our Tonnage segment.
For the quarter net income from containing operations increased 15% and diluted earnings per share increased 14% each versus prior year.
Return on capital employed for the quarter improved to 13% up 30 basis points.
The 16.2% operating margin for this quarter is a disappointment for us.
The shortfall to our goal is primarily in the Merchant segment due to 4 factors: a lack of volume growth in North -- in the North American business where we have significant available capacity further declines in our European business continued operating problems that resulted in higher operating and dislocation costs and tight helium supply with increased procurement costs.
To remedy these issues we are taking the following actions.
In North America we are continuing to add sales resources focused around our plants and on the end markets where we have strong offerings.
For example oil field services and electronics packaging.
We've already seen signings in the third quarter improved and we expect continued improvement.
It does take about 6 to 9 months for new signings to come on line.
We will also continue to drive price improvement.
In Europe we continue to face a slow recovery along with the pricing environment that is under recovering our variable cost increases.
To address this we had raised prices for a number of products and in a number of countries and we'll have more price increases this quarter to stop price and variable margin erosion.
We will strongly defend our volumes from competitive attack.
However there are certain accounts we will either improve or shed.
We are focusing our sales efforts on customers close to our plants to lower our distribution costs and to leverage our application strength in areas like cement and combustion.
For our operating performance we are working hard across our system to increase plant availability and reduce unplanned outages.
An example is argon production where product has been tight and operating and distribution costs have been high.
Tonnage expansion is currently underway such as the new LaPorte plant scheduled to come onstream later this year will enhance our argon availability.
Regarding helium we have and we'll be raising prices further and we will be bringing on additional capacity later this year.
Overall we are forecasting Merchant margins to improve next quarter and we now expect to meet our 20% margin goal in fiscal 2012 on our way to our 21% to 24% goal for 2015.
While Merchant margins disappointed the Electronics and Performance Materials segment exceeded their 15% goal posting a year-to-date margin of 15.8% and 18.1% for this quarter.
This performance has offset some of the Merchant shortfall.
While this quarter just made it harder on ourselves we are still committed to achieving our 17% goal for the year.
Turning to Slide 4 for a review of the factors that affected the quarter's performance in terms of earnings per share.
Our adjusted earnings per share increased by 14% or $0.18 per share.
Higher volumes increased earnings per share by $0.14 year-on-year.
Pricing combined with the impact of energy and raw materials subtracted $0.02.
Costs were $0.06 unfavorable as our productivity gains were more than offset by higher operating and maintenance and distribution costs particularly in our Merchant segment.
Equity affiliate income was broadly higher across our Merchant Tonnage and Electronics segments contributing $0.03.
Currency translation and foreign exchange netted to a $0.09 favorable impact.
Now I'll turn the call over to Simon to review our business segment results.
Simon? Thanks Paul.
Please turn to Slide 5 Merchant Gases.
Merchant Gases sales of just over $1 billion were up 12% versus prior year.
Underlying sales improved by 4% on 3% higher volumes primarily in Asia and positive pricing in North America and Asia.
Currency increased sales by 8%.
Sequentially sales were up 1% with underlying sales flat and a 1% increase due to currency.
Merchant Gases' operating income of $182 million was up 3% versus prior year and down 2% sequentially.
Segment operating margin of 17.7% was down 160 basis points versus prior year and down 60 basis points sequentially.
Versus last year plant operating issues increased maintenance and distribution costs.
These challenges resulted in higher dislocation costs to keep our customers supplied.
In addition our price increase efforts in Europe did not fully recover increased cost.
Versus prior quarter fixed and variable cost increases drove the margin decline.
As Paul said we expect margins to improve from these levels in Q4 and beyond.
Let me now provide a few additional comments by region.
Please turn to Slide 6.
In North America sales improved 3% versus prior year.
Volumes were flat with modest liquid oxygen nitrogen and argon growth offset by helium supply constraints limiting sales.
Pricing was 3% positive with improvement across the product lines.
LOX/LIN plant loadings were in the low 70s.
Signings were very strong this quarter which will improve loadings as these new contracts take effect.
In Europe sales increased 14% versus last year with underlying sales up 1% and a positive 13% currency impact.
Volumes were up 2% with modest growth across the product lines.
Pricing remained a challenge down 1% due to competitive pressure in both healthcare and liquid bulk.
LOX/LIN plant loadings are in the mid-80s.
In Asia sales were up 22% versus last year with underlying sales up 15%.
As expected growth rates have moderated somewhat from previous quarters as we have moved to tougher year-on-year comparisons.
Overall volume growth remained strong.
Volumes were up 12% with liquid oxygen and nitrogen up 13% across the region and up 19% in China.
Pricing continued to be strong up 3% with liquid oxygen and nitrogen prices up modestly.
Argon pricing was strong versus last year but as expected we did see lower sequential argon pricing due to less spot sales in China with a more balanced supply-and-demand market.
Plant loadings remained in the mid-80s.
We did bring onstream our new merchant capacity at Xingtai Steel in China integrated with our Tonnage oxygen plant.
Please turn to Slide 7 Tonnage Gases.
Tonnage Gases sales of $869 million increased 20% versus last year with volumes up 11% and energy and raw material pass-through increasing sales by 7%.
The volume increase was driven by both new projects and improved loadings.
Sequentially sales were up 9% on a 5% volume increase and 3% higher energy and raw material pass-through.
New plant volume growth and less volume impact for maintenance outages drove the increase.
Operating income of $115 million was down 4% from prior year on a higher maintenance cost primarily from customer-scheduled outages and down 5% sequentially due to lower annual operating bonuses.
After a number of scheduled maintenance outages in Q2 and Q3 we expect Q4 maintenance spending to be lower.
Operating margin of 13.2% decreased 330 basis points versus prior year.
About 2/3 of this decline is due to the maintenance cost just mentioned the remainder is due to higher natural gas cost pass-through.
Moving to new business.
We were pleased to announce a significant increase in our hydrogen supply to Valero's 2 Gulf Coast refineries.
This award of over 200 million standard cubic feet a day for Valero in Port Arthur Texas and St.
Charles Louisiana was facilitated by our Gulf Coast pipeline project and expands our leading global hydrogen position.
We expect to announce additional hydrogen and oxygen awards in Q4.
Please turn to Slide 8 Electronics and Performance Materials.
We were very pleased with this quarter's performance as sales income and margin were all the highest in the history of the segment.
Segment sales of $602 million were up 21% compared to last year on 14% higher volumes 3% positive pricing and 4% currency.
Sequentially sales were up 5% on 3% higher volumes and 1% higher prices.
Electronic sales were up 24% compared to last year and up 3% sequentially as the industry maintained high utilization rates.
Electronic Specialty Materials sales increased 14% versus prior year and 6% sequentially.
Tonnage sales were up 12% versus prior year and 4% sequentially and our Equipment business was up significantly versus prior year and sequentially.
Electronic Specialty Materials pricing was flat versus last year and last quarter.
As we communicated at the Investor Conference we continue to see more stable pricing.
In fact NF3 prices were up slightly both versus last year and sequentially.
This positive impact was offset by lower new product pricing resulting from higher new product volumes based on previously negotiated price volume discounts.
This is good news as customers move our profitable new products into full production.
Performance Materials sales increased 18% versus last year with volumes up 7% pricing up 7% and currency contributing 4%.
We continue to recover increased raw material costs with our pricing actions.
Sequentially sales rose 6% on 3% volume growth and 2% price.
Operating income of $109 million was up 75% versus prior year primarily due to volume leverage and continued positive cost performance.
Income was up 19% sequentially primarily due to volume leverage.
Segment operating margin of 18.1% improved 550 basis points from last year and 220 basis points sequentially due to strong volume and cost performance.
As expected we did not see any material impact to our business from the tragic events in Japan.
There have been some signs of softening in certain electronic sectors including foundry and LCD.
However you probably saw the very strong results from Apple and Intel exceeding expectations in results reported this week.
As we have said we believe our strong position with the industry leaders and our new product success will mitigate any effect and we expect continued strong performance from this segment.
In terms of new projects last month we announced the successful startup of our new Electronic Materials facility in Banwol Korea.
This facility will produce products enabling our customers to create advanced generation devices and reinforces our leadership position in the electronics market.
During the quarter we announced plans to increase production of ultrahigh purity nitrogen and oxygen and expand the nitrogen pipeline at our Chandler Arizona facility.
We have successfully served semiconductor manufacturers in the Chandler market for over 30 years.
Finally earlier this week we announced an expansion of our nitrogen capacity and pipeline network at the Gumi National Industrial Complex in Korea.
We currently supply nearly 20 semiconductor and photovoltaic customers via our pipeline network.
This expansion will support existing customer growth and new customers.
Now please turn to Slide 9 Equipment and Energy.
Sales of $80 million were down 31% versus prior year on lower ASU sales and 30% sequentially on lower ASU and LNG sales.
Operating income of $9 million was down 59% versus prior year due to lower sales and a prior year asset gain and 62% sequentially due to lower sales.
Our backlog is down versus prior year but as expected showed a 34% increase sequentially primarily driven by our new LNG technology and equipment order for the world's first floating LNG facility at Shell's Australia Prelude Project.
We leveraged our innovative capabilities and years of LNG experience to meet the unique demands of a successful floating LNG facility and we feel we are well positioned to benefit from what could be a major LNG trend.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Paul.
Thank you Simon.
Now if you will turn to Slide 10.
I'd like to share my thoughts on our outlook.
First let's take a look at the current economic environment.
This quarter our underlying revenue growth rate declined from 12% in the first half to 7%.
This is partially due to the slowing of manufacturing growth rates across all regions.
Many manufacturing markets slowed as a result of spikes in commodity price inflation high inventory levels uncertainty over government policies and fiscal situations and weak private sector confidence.
As uncertainty surrounding policy fiscal and sovereign debt issues begin to resolve over the coming months we would expect growth to pick up early in our fiscal 2012.
Our guidance for quarter 4 is for earnings per share of $1.48 to $1.53 year-over-year growth of 10% to 13%.
This is based on the following factors.
On the positive side we expect to see increased earnings sequentially from the following areas.
The manufacturing economy globally should continue its gradual recovery.
This along with some seasonal boost should result in higher sequential volumes in Merchant Gases.
And in Tonnage Gases operating income should improve significantly on higher volumes and lower planned maintenance spending.
Partially offsetting these sequential improvements will be a higher fiscal quarter 4 tax rate.
Our tax rate in quarter 4 should be about 26%.
For the year we expect the rate to come in towards the lower end of our original guidance range of 25% to 26%.
For fiscal year 2011 the underlying assumptions from the beginning of the year have not changed significantly.
Our capital expenditure guidance is now $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion for 2011 at the top end of the original $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion range.
Our full year fiscal '11 earnings per share guidance range is now $5.70 to $5.75 14% to 15% growth over last year.
While it is still early as we look to fiscal 2012 we expect our capital spending will increase by 20% to 30% next year.
We'll provide more specific guidance on next quarter's call.
Now let me wrap up.
Please turn to Slide 11.
Last month many of you joined us at our Investor Conference where we shared our 2015 revenue growth and margin and returning goal along with the actions and plans we have to achieve them.
All of us are excited by the growth and improvement opportunities these goals represent.
We believe the market positions we have built the customer relationships and product offerings we have cultivated and the actions we are taking to drive out costs will make us the best investment in our industry for our shareholders.
Thank you and now I'll turn the call over to Augusta to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from John McNulty of Credit Suisse.
Just 2 questions.
The first one on the European pricing issues.
You made a relatively strong statement that you're being attacked by your competition there and you weren't going to let go of volumes in that situation.
Can you walk us through what's actually going on and maybe what's changed to make it such an aggressive environment there? Yes John we have seen the pricing in Europe be more aggressive particularly by some of our European competitors as they have striven for volume.
As you know growth in Europe is not as strong as it is in other parts of the world.
However as we look at this we were going to defend our -- we are going to defend our key accounts and we are going to -- but we're also have a need to increase prices.
And particularly in certain regions of Europe particularly in the south and we have started to put price increases out.
The good news is that we've also seen -- we have seen our competitors start to follow those price increases.
So we are encouraged.
Its still early to tell but pricing needs to get better in Europe.
Okay.
And then just a follow also somewhat tied into the competitive environment.
We were a little bit surprised to see I guess one of your competitors announced a pretty large project down in what's historically been kind of your territory in Louisiana with regard to hydrogen.
And I guess I'm wondering how we should be thinking about the competitive environment along the Gulf Coast for hydrogen projects going forward.
Well the -- in a competitive environment it is exactly that.
We believe as we look at this thing as we look at this is that with our connector project which connects Louisiana and Texas pipeline systems that we have the most reliable the most efficient pipeline system in that area and that we should win the majority of projects there and maintain our position very well with good pricing and good returns.
We also won product at the same customer over which is -- was -- over which has occurred.
Those things are going to happen.
You're not going to win 100% of the business.
But we still believe as we said on our Investor Day that we can maintain our share of the business here going forward.
John as we mentioned too we would be expecting to be able to announce some additional hydrogen orders in this next quarter as well.
Our next question comes from Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP</strong> Paul you characterized the -- you said you can still meet 17% or at least that's your goal for the year still after this 16% to this quarter that seems somewhat aggressive especially with the Merchant outlook.
So is that implying that this sort of new 18% Electronics margin level is sustainable? I mean you talked about how some areas of Electronics are good but growth does seem to be slowing sequentially there.
So maybe if you can just walk me through how you still expect to achieve 17% operating margins this year? Sure Don.
And one thing which we said is we just made it harder for ourselves.
So we are going to have to have things go our way.
But if we are going to make it we're going to need improvement in the Merchant business itself in the fourth quarter.
That means we're going to need for volumes to pick up here in the United States in this quarter.
We're going to have to see some of our pricing actions take effect in Europe.
And most importantly we're going to have to operate our plants well and remove some of these extra maintenance operating and dislocation costs which we talked about.
And that's -- and so that's how we get there with a marked improvement in the Merchant margins.
But it's hard we're not going to get everything better all at once in that business very clearly.
We didn't get there all in one quarter we're not going to get out of it all in one quarter with these things.
LLLP</strong> The follow-up on U.S.
Merchant.
Your operating rates seem unusually low low 70s and -- because typically you don't get pricing until you get close to 80.
I know you added some plants and that's had an impact.
But is there a need to restructure some of your U.S.
Merchant plants here and then maybe close down some plants in some regions to get higher operating rates and hence better pricing power? We do not believe so Don as we look at this.
As we look at this we look at the industry overall and we think that given the demand structure which is out there and the applications efforts which we have going forward to be able to sell this product and that we can get to a descent -- a better operating rate over time here and that we would not take any product out at this point in time.
Our next question will come from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
This is John Hirt standing in for P.J.
this morning.
I was wondering if you could break out the 10% year-over-year volume growth at the Tonnage business into new plant startups versus growth in your base book of business? Sure.
Good question John.
It's split about evenly between new projects and loading up of existing assets.
Okay.
And can you give us an update on how large your project backlog is at this point following the recent contract signing with Valero? Sure.
And we take a look at that at our backlog.
Our backlog right now is in excess and well in excess of $2 billion.
But as I've always said in this you've got to be careful about just focusing on backlog number.
The real good number for us here and that we are excited about is the growth in capital spending as we look to next year.
We have previously been talking about a growth of 15% to 20% off of this year guidance range of $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion.
Now it looks like we're coming in at the top -- towards the top end of that range and we've taken our growth to be 20% to 30% for next year which gives us a much better feel for -- and should give you a much better feel for what is happening because how long a project sits in backlog it can always be there so you're going to have something which you're billing over 3 or 4 years.
It's always there.
What you really want to see is the capital spending for the company growth and the CapEx.
And so we don't have any real additional new support capital or replacement capital in there.
That's still about $400 million a year on our guidance but we've got very strong capital spending growth looking for next year.
John if I could just add also to it.
As Paul mentioned that our backlog is up but just -- because when you asked the question you mentioned the Valero.
Actually in that backlog number there is increased that Paul mentioned there's no project for Valero yet.
We have won the order with the customer but with our pipeline network down there we can continue to be flexible in terms of adding demand and supply.
So we will build supply but I just wanted to emphasize that in that number there's no project for that large order yet.
Our next question comes from Bob Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Paul I guess I'm struck by the really strong volume double-digit volumes in Tonnage Electronics and Asian Merchant and how contradicted that is by no growth in North America.
It seemed like in May and June at least the comments that you guys were a little bit more constructive in North America.
So did we just -- do you think the economy stepped in a pothole? Is there something specific to the merchant market itself that's causing you problems? And then second question would be you mentioned throwing some more feet in sales attention.
I know you guys have done that in various iterations in the past in various regions.
So can you talk about what the lag time is between putting those people in the field and actually starting to see some revenue on the P&amp;L? Sure yes.
Certainly Bob.
And if you take the economy in North America certainly the economy in North America has kind of hit a soft patch.
As we look at -- there's still a lot of uncertainty around there.
You don't -- you have to be blind to not see it on every news channel and every newspaper about what's happening with the various things on the debt crisis.
And that worries us.
So that worries consumers which then worries the -- a business which has to invest.
We're not creating jobs and so if I got -- we got to get beyond this uncertainty.
So hopefully as we go through this summer we resolve some of these issues.
We start to move forward.
We take some better and get firmer on what the policy actions will be we'll see the economy -- the uncertainty start to lift a little bit off the economy and people start making decisions with regard to that.
But if you look at any of the production statistics for the U.S.
they have been trending downward as far as the growth rate was concerned.
The first half of our fiscal year which is the last quarter of the calendar year in '10 and the first quarter of the calendar year in 2011 certainly had a stronger economy from a manufacturing standpoint.
We were probably seeing growth somewhere in the 6% to 7% range.
We are seeing growth less than half of that in the third and fourth quarter if we're lucky given things.
So then if you look at that the impact of our sales force we started to increase our sales force post the -- post-thing in which happened with Airgas.
And so we have already started to see the signings get better for us and so we are seeing that with our people.
So I think it doesn't take too long for our sales guys to become effective and start to add some business.
It does take us as I said some time to bring that business onstream.
So it's normally 6 maybe 9 months until that business starts to come onstream.
So Paul with your Tonnage oxygen and nitrogen business excluding the hydrogen part would that mirror the kind of volume trends you've seen in Merchant? Yes it would.
As we look at that yes it would.
We have seen -- we've been seeing slow growth.
If you look at steel operating rates steel operatings are a little bit better than -- and than they were a year ago around the world I mean.
The world's hit somewhat of a soft patch here.
And bob just as we mentioned too very slow growth but we did have some positive in liquid oxygen nitrogen and argon in North America.
There was some offset with helium supply constraints limited helium growth.
We'll go next to Mike Harrison from First Analyst.
Wanted to just ask a couple more questions around the margins in the Merchant business.
You talked about the need to get volume in North America and pricing in Europe.
I think both of those things are a little bit market- and competitive-environment dependent.
But with respect to the operational issues and the need to reduce some of the dislocation costs et cetera how much of those issues have been fixed at this point and things are taken care of and to the extent that they can give you confidence that you'll see margin improvement from those areas where you have more control over your own destiny so to speak? And so Michael the way this works is you fix one and another one popped up and that's somewhat of what we saw between quarter 2 and quarter 3.
So far for our look at this it's just -- it's hitting a lot of singles of making sure we run our plants well and do a better job.
So it's not one issue it's a number of issues.
And they're small and they're at different plants around here.
And so it's going to be something which we're going to have to pay attention to.
With regard to some of the issues which I mentioned argon availability has been an issue for us.
We do have capacity coming onstream in the on-site area in both the U.S.
and Asia which will help our argon availability around the world.
We have -- we've brought some argon capacity on time at Xingtai Steel as an example.
That will help us.
We have a plant coming onstream towards the end of our fiscal year in LaPorte Texas which will help us with argon availability and also cut down on the distribution costs.
So it's going to be -- it's not one thing which we can do to fix it it's a number of things.
And then it just getting on to getting the benefits out of our -- out of us the service center investments which we've made and things like that.
So we've -- we can do these things.
You've seen the progress or focus which we've made on SG&amp;A as a company.
SG&amp;A we didn't make a big deal about it but SG&amp;A is under 10% of sales this quarter.
If you take currency out of it SG&amp;A is down year-on-year for us.
So we've made -- we continue to make a lot of progress in those areas.
We can take cost out.
We can be successful at this.
We applied the tools we applied the information systems which we have.
We've make good decisions and we can get this done.
And then in terms of Merchant pricing in Asia it seems to be decelerating a little bit compared to what you showed in the last couple of quarters.
Can you disaggregate for us what's going on in LOX/LIN pricing in Asia versus LAR and maybe talk a little bit about the outlook for Merchant pricing given the inflationary environment we're seeing in Asia? Simon why don't you take that? Sure yes Mike.
And as you pointed out we talked to the last couple of quarters about the spot opportunities we had in argon and so that was one of the drivers.
We still had positive pricing in LOX/LIN in Asia this quarter year-on-year that we have done.
So in the low single-digits types of numbers.
So obviously the argon spot opportunities have wound their way through the system a little bit and so we continue to see positive pricing in Asia.
I think we're able to recover the increased costs that we have there.
So I think low single digits going forward is something that we would expect to be able to deliver.
And then last one is on the interest expense.
You saw about a $3 million decline quarter-on-quarter even though your debt level went up to some extent that's driven by increased short-term borrowings.
But just -- can we get any guidance maybe on what the interest expense number could look like over the next couple of quarters? Yes.
And if you take a look at that it is obviously going to depend upon the floating rates.
I mean the -- a portion of that was rates a portion of that was capitalized interest which you saw here for us in this time period.
But I would expect the interest rate the interest expense for us to grow as we increase borrowings to fund the capital.
We'll go next to Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America Merrill Lynch Paul in Tonnage what was the impact of the customer maintenance outages that you referenced in the quarter? And were those complete by the end of the quarter or is there any residual spillover into the fiscal fourth quarter? The actions and -- were complete.
As we look at the maintenance spending costs us $0.04 or so a share when you look at that.
So less substantial in a year-over-year.
Quarter-to-quarter wasn't a big deal and we probably get a benefit of a similar amount going forward into quarter 4.
And they are complete Kevin.
Very good.
And then shifting over to Merchant Paul.
In your prepared remarks I guess you indicated 4 separate issues that you thought were pressuring margins there.
One of them was tight helium supply.
Can you comment on that and maybe size the impact of that in terms of any volume constraints? I think you indicated elevated procurement costs as well there.
Right yes.
It's actually a long answer for this one.
I'll try to keep it short in the interest of time.
Helium has been tight around the world.
It is a commodity which ships around the world.
And you don't ship in the gas you ship in liquid form in containers.
But it has been tight due to various production issues around the world and continued strong growth a lot of the growth being driven by the electronics industry for -in the uses of helium.
We do have new capacity coming onstream within the United States towards the end of calendar year '11 which will help our supply things.
One of the things that has -- which is a factor here is the Bureau of Mines I think it is in the United States BOM but landmines.
They have a storage amount of helium which they have gradually been selling off in which we own a portion of it our competitors own a portion of that and that amount is going away.
And so we are going to become more reliant on foreign sources of helium globally and the procurement costs for that is higher for these things as we attempt to take these helium.
It mainly occurs -- it occurs in gas fields and you strip it out and then you purify it.
So it's -- it is something which we manage.
We are the largest supplier of helium in the world so it is a -- it impacts us a decent amount but we also think that we have a good handle on that.
It's just the need that prices are going to have to go up as we see higher costs for procuring the raw helium.
Our next question comes from Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
The equity income in the quarter was about $40 million which was a lot more than it was in the first 2 quarters.
How did things get so much better there and what's the outlook going forward? The outlook going forward is for that to continue Jeff.
As we look at that we think our Equity Affiliates they're good solid businesses.
We told you they got #1 positions in a number of markets.
But the gains occurred in the Merchant area principally Mexico and India.
In the Tonnage area we have some JVs in China which are starting to contribute now as we build the plants and bring them online.
And in our Electronics ventures we have Electronics ventures with DuPont which had a -- which had very good quarters and which we expect to also continue.
So yes we expect this level of profitability to continue and they will grow.
Sometimes in the fourth quarter your payables steps up by $300 million and sometimes it steps up by about $100 million.
You've used a lot of working capital so far this year.
What's the working capital outlook on the fourth quarter? Well the working capital -- if you're trying to get at free cash flow then I give you from that.
As far as the working capital the payable steps up because the classification of the pension and our expectations over how much we're going to contribute within the next year.
I would expect that our pension contributions in this year will not be as -- for -- in 2012 will not be as large as they were in 2011 or 2010.
But that's a decision still to be made as we close out the year.
There will be some pension contribution but that's what causes the payables to step up.
As far as overall I think we've got a very good story on free cash flow for the year though.
And I expect -- and we had a very good quarter in this quarter if you just look at that and you adjust some of the things about -- out about the operating cash flow.
But we had free cash flow in excess of $100 million this quarter and I would expect us to be somewhere $100 million $150 million in the fourth quarter also.
And then lastly and you may have covered this your pricing in Electronics year-over-year is plus 3.
And in the old days those numbers used to be 0 or negative 1.
Why are the price realizations so much better now? Simon? Yes.
Great question.
So...
Former business here.
So as we talked to the Investor Conference I think we are seeing a fundamental change in the Electronics business.
So I'll talk about Electronics first.
We did see very significant declines in pricing if you go back over the last 10 years.
But we've definitely seen a stabilization of those larger volume more mature products and that's why we were commenting about stable pricing going forward.
I did mention that in fact actually NF3 is up slightly year-on-year and sequentially and what's offsetting that and bringing that to flat for Electronics is the great news that some of our new products are being adopted by our customers.
What happens when we work out these new products our customer is doing let's say a test quantity we might be supplying from a small pilot plant and we need a certain price.
But for the customer to agree to adopt that product in full production they need to have a price roadmap and understand where that's going to go before they commit to it.
So we often when we have our new product we'll pre-renegotiate let's say a share of the savings a price volume curve.
So actually seeing prices go down in those new products is very good because it shows that they're being adopted.
So if you take the more mature products slightly up.
The newer products slightly down.
That's where Electronics is fairly stable.
Of course the other part of the segment is Performance Materials where the team's done a great job of basically recovering some cost increases with some higher prices and that's what's driven the segment.
We'll go next to Laurence Alexander of Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> This is Lucy Watson on for Laurence today.
Question on Merchant volumes.
You mentioned a couple of times that they were slow in the U.S.
and Europe.
I just -- I'm wondering if this was relatively consistent across the quarter or did you see gradual improvements or declines from month-to-month? And I guess also exiting the quarter as well have you seen any change? It was consistent across the quarter Lucy in volumes.
As I said about the economy we've -- we have seen the economy globally hit a little bit of a soft patch.
it's not -- you can see that in the statistics there.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then in your -- the increased quarter-over-quarter in your Equipment and Energy backlog it looks like it was mostly due to the addition of the new floating LNG facility.
That is right.
Inc.</strong> Can you just I guess expand on us -- for us on the potential addressable market opportunities for offshore gas liquefaction facilities and then the expected timeline for this? Sure.
Okay I'm sorry.
And there are a number of projects which people are considering as ways to explore a projects which are not onshore.
This is an alternate to running a pipeline into shore to take the gas in and then liquefy it there.
It also enables you to take smaller deposits and then to move the platform at some point in time so you would do that.
So as we look at the future for gas around the world we see gas being more and more utilized as to make chemicals and also to make power.
It has some advantages as far as on the carbon side naturally with -- and with regard to the power plus with the events of people -- with the events in Japan and the shutdown of nuclear power plants we see more and more LNG occurring around the world.
It may not come into -- probably will not come into the United States but certainly we're going to see more LNG coming to places like Europe.
We're going to see more LNG coming to places like Japan India China big market for us going forward in the future.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And one last quick question.
Does FX play a role in your forecasting for CapEx for next year or is that just additional product -- projects that you'd expect to come onstream? It does what? I missed it.
Inc.</strong> Does currency play a role in the volume now? Currency? No no no.
Currency is -- do not play a big impact.
We'll go next to David Manthey of Robert W.
Baird.
It sounds like you think that the North American Merchant softness was broad-based but do you feel that you lost any share or is it just market weakness? Or was it just weakness where you are or could you just go to a little detail there? If I take a look overall over this time period over a longer time period and not particularly on to one quarter here it exists and we probably have lost some share in the United States.
Okay.
And then in terms of the backlog.
The increase there the 20% to 30% off the high end of the old range it implies that projects are -- in the backlog are starting to break loose.
Is that the case or are you also at the same time betting on winning more orders going forward? And then secondarily if you can talk about that roughly $2 billion in CapEx any comments on geographies or if it's hydrogen or where it's weighted? Sure.
If we just take a look at the CapEx here going forward so -- in regard to backlog like I said I think the real number you got to look at is capital spending.
And so it isn't so much of a projects trying to break loose you put a project in the backlog and then you have a certain curve which you spend the money on with things.
And certainly a bigger backlog is probably better for you but the real number what you want to see is growth in CapEx.
As we look at growth in CapEx for next year if we look at the spending in '11 it's probably 40% in the Americas 20% in Europe and 40% in Asia.
We think that that number starts to tilt more towards Asia going forward here although Americas still has strong growth for that because of the hydrogen projects which we -- to which we're currently building.
Europe probably tones down a little bit because we have 2 large projects which we are building there and it hasn't been as strong.
The Middle East probably picks up some things for us within the next year or so as far as backlog's concerned but I would say that we are going to see a more tilt in ourself towards Asia as far as the spending is concerned.
And just to clarify Dave too that was capital spending that Paul mentioned could be up 20% to 30% not backlog.
Yes right.
It's not backlog.
Not necessarily okay? Our next question comes from Peter Cozzone of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
You may have alluded to this a little bit already.
But on the North American Merchant front I'm just trying to kind of get some more color around if the operating issues you experience during the quarter may have impacted volumes and to maybe what extent that might have accounted for some of the share pressure here during the quarter? Yes and the operating issues were not confined to North America.
We had operating issues around the world.
That's a broad comment on the Merchant segment.
But I think we would say generally speaking we're able to keep our customers supplied.
Perhaps on the helium side we mentioned supply limitations on the helium did impact growth opportunities there.
Okay.
And then kind of as you look at 4Q here or in second half of calendar 2011.
I'm just -- maybe could you provide some more color around the Electronics outlook if you're hearing any indications from customers that would suggest anything than normal seasonality? And then also maybe on TV front maybe some color as far as what you're hearing for the outlook for the rest of the year in that market? Yes.
Good question.
So a lot of different things in Electronics.
We acknowledged in our comments that we are seeing some subsegments that are little bit softer particularly the foundry segment.
I think TSMC has mentioned they see utilization rates down a little bit going forward.
Kind of on the flip side of that is on Intel's call they referenced and I quote "Increasing confidence in the second half of the year." We still see growth in TV and LED.
Again perhaps the growth rates are moderating a little bit.
When we take a look at MSI we had thought MSI for the year and I'm going back to our comments back in October was up 5% to 10% for FY '11 over FY '10.
I think that we're going to see a little flatter back half of the year in the industry and we saw a very strong second half FY '10.
So when you put that together we could see MSI growth year-on-year to be below that lower end of our range.
Having said that we still see some strength.
Apple obviously had tremendous results.
And as we've explained a few times the pull-through from iPads and iPhones both in terms of the computer chips in those devices themselves but again the processing technology capability that has to be in the servers that are doing the math in the cloud if you will continues to drive business forward.
So I think we should -- we see probably moderating but no significant drop off at all going forward.
Okay.
Kind of just a follow-on.
You mentioned some new product wins in the Electronics business.
Could you -- do you expect a meaningful benefit I guess near term on the volume from here as those products ramp up or maybe also what type of margin impact do these new products generally carry? Yes.
And that's going to be a gradual impact as they start to be deployed.
And as we said as our customer put them into full production.
So they will have an impact with us over time and we'll continue the growth of this business.
We'll go next to Mark Gulley of Ticonderoga Securities.
Paul I thought the highlight of your prepared remarks was the increase in CapEx for next year.
You've already talked about the geographic side of that but going back to your Investor Day I was struck by the fact that a lot of that new CapEx in Tonnage is going to go for oxygen for let's say coal conversion projects in China.
So are you starting to see that ramp up next year? Is that adding to your confidence in oxygen for next year in Tonnage? Yes.
The simple answer Mark is yes.
That's yes.
We are seeing the orders there and those are in that forecast.
Okay.
Now does the forecast also include some more steel projects in emerging markets overall? Yes.
Okay.
And then finally -- thanks for the short answers.
Pleasure.
With respect to the Merchant side.
Half your sales and earnings -- we've had 2 straight quarters here now of some of bumps in the road.
On the one hand you're looking for more volume in the U.S.
but is that going to be at the sacrifice of price as you have more feet on the street? And I guess in other areas you're looking for more price in Europe.
Could that contribute to some volume pressure there? So you face some kind of vexing trends to boost results in Merchant.
You're right.
But that's why we pay people a lot of money to do this work Mark.
And not to be flip on that but that's true.
We have to balance and I think we've proven we can do that.
If you take a look at within the U.S.
we think it's an issue of sales coverage and getting broader sales coverage out to certain accounts and we don't think we have to go out and sacrifice price with that.
With regard to Europe as we said there are also some accounts in which we look at and which if the price doesn't go up at and we don't want to serve those accounts.
We'll go next to David Begleiter of Deutsche Bank.
This is James Sheehan sitting in for David.
Paul do you see anything sitting here in fiscal Q4 right now that would lead you to expect that you could not achieve your long-term growth EPS growth forecast of 15% for fiscal 2012? No.
I think we are on track as we've talked about at the Investor Day and that we are -- and that we will continue to move forward.
You're always going to have some bumps in the road but we're going to manage our way through them.
We're going to fix them and we're going to move on and deliver the results.
So how much of that target depends on fixing the problems in Merchant Gases or on getting improvement continued sustained improvements in Electronics? Well the Merchant business is a big portion of our business.
It's about 40% of the company.
So we've got to make sure that that performs.
So as you look at this we got to make sure Merchant does a good job.
I think you've seen the progress which we've made in Electronics and Performance Materials very solid business are at levels of performance which a number of people over the years have questioned if we could ever get even close to those levels of performance.
And we think we can sustain that and continue to make it better.
So just with reference to this hot weather we're having in July.
Do you see any impacts on that on the efficiency of your plants or in terms of higher electricity costs? Yes you're right.
It does not help you -- it does not help the efficiency of our plants.
Now the good news is I got a lot of it -- I got a lot of capacity here because it cuts down actually on how much I can actually make.
Okay.
And Paul can you just give me a little color on the -- on pricing in packaged gases in Europe? Is it getting stronger there? The pricing in packaged gases is -- has been okay for us.
I think it always could get better for us.
The thing which we are not seeing is we aren't seeing -- we are not seeing the volume growth yet in Europe on packaged gases.
The volume growth has not been good just particularly in the south in Spain.
That will come from Edward Yang of Oppenheimer.
Paul you mentioned that you expect to -- or you're willing to shed some unprofitable customers in Europe.
I was wondering how meaningful that could be.
And second you mentioned cement and combustion is 2 areas in Europe where you feel like you could gain some share and I was wondering what your particular expertise there is relative to your competitors.
Yes.
And with regard to expertise it gets down to applications and it gets to particular areas.
We do have a combustion lab which is world class which we can bring our customers into.
And they can see -- they could see flame patterns.
They could see how oxygen really will help them and make them better.
Examples of that are our position and the success which we've had in the glass market as an example for us by taking the glass companies in here and showing how we can -- how -- what sort of things we can do to help them raise the efficiency and the environmental performance of their plants with regard to that I mean.
And as far as the -- on the customer side of things I -- in the end I think all of this has -- the impact of this is that it increases your margins.
Our experience with this is you don't want -- you don't loose a lot of business by doing this.
I'll tell you we've gone through this in the United States years ago of taking customers' prices up and you -- and pretty much you wind up getting the bulk of them up and it comes down to the thing of it.
You got to make -- at every customer you got to be able to make a profit and that's just the way it is.
Okay.
So that wraps up Augusta.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
Thanks Augusta.
Thank you for joining us and have a nice day.
Good morning and welcome to the Air Products &amp; Chemicals Fourth Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also this telephone conference presentation and the comments made on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
Air Products will be recording this teleconference and may publish all or a portion of the teleconference.
No other recording or redistribution of this telephone conference by any other party are permitted without the express written permission of Air Products.
Your participation indicates your agreement.
Beginning today's call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Moore you may begin.
Thank you David.
Good morning and welcome to Air Products' Fourth Quarter Earnings Teleconference.
This is Simon Moore.
Today our CFO Paul Huck and I will review our fiscal 2011 results and outlook for fiscal 2012.
We issued our earnings release this morning.
It's available on our website along with the slides for this teleconference.
Please go to airproducts.com to access the materials.
Instructions for accessing a replay of this call beginning at 2 p.m.
Eastern Time are also available on our website.
Please turn to Slide 2.
As always today's teleconference will contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions.
Please review the information on these slides and at the end of today's earnings release explaining factors that may affect these expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Paul for a review of our financials.
Thanks Simon.
Good day everyone and thanks for joining us.
Please turn to Slide #3 for a review of the key highlights from our fiscal year 2011.
Clearly the top highlight for us in 2011 was the number of new projects we announced over the last 12 months.
Some of the larger ones are shown at the top of this slide.
For some time we have been sharing with you that bidding activity for new project remains high and as a validation of that point our capital project backlog continues to rise and now stands at $2.5 billion.
For this year our capital spending was $1.6 billion up 22% from 2010 and our outlook is now for this to grow to $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion in 2012.
You can see that these projects are aligned with the key growth drivers we discussed at our Investor Conference.
Hydrogen and oxygen for energy and environmental markets nitrogen for electronics and merchant capacity for emerging markets.
Now some financial highlights.
We had a strong year with significant improvement in operating cash flow up 15%.
We increased our dividend for the 29th consecutive year an increase of 18%.
We repurchased $649 million of stock during fiscal year 2011 and announced a new $1 billion share repurchase authorization.
And our adjusted earnings per share of $5.73 was up 14% just above the high end of our original guidance range.
On the sustainability front we renamed the both the Carbon Disclosure Project and Dow Jones Sustainable indices reflecting the results and leadership we are delivering in this important area.
Turning to Slide #4 sales of $10.1 billion increased 12% as we delivered strong gains across our Merchant Gases Tonnage Gases and our Electronics and Performance Materials segments.
Our underlying sales grew 10% with volumes up 9% and price up 1%.
We delivered good volume growth in a period of modest economic growth driven by strong performance on our Electronics and Performance Materials segment which posted its second consecutive year of over 20% growth.
Volume growth of 11% in Tonnage Gases principally from new investments and contracts.
And in our Merchant segment growth in Asia was well above 20% with much more modest growth experienced in the U.S.
and Europe.
Operating income of $1.7 billion grew 13% mainly from better performance in Electronics and Performance Materials and Tonnage Gases segments.
Our operating margin for the year was 16.6% a modest improvement from last year.
While we attained the highest operating margin in more than a decade our operating leverage was partially offset by a number of product supply and cost issues in the second half of the year.
As a result we finished short of our 17% target.
Looking forward margin should continue to expand.
We have operating leverage in the United States and Europe and we have solutions to our product supply and cost issues.
And we remain committed to continuing to drive our cost reductions as we expand our business.
Equity affiliates income increased 22% to $154 million this year due to better results across a number of our joint ventures.
The largest improvement came from Mexico where volumes were significantly higher on strong LOX/LIN and packaged gas sales driven by glass oil field services refining and general manufacturing.
And most importantly our annual after-tax return on capital employed improved to 13.3% 80 basis points above last year.
Please turn to Slide 5.
For the quarter sales of $2.6 billion were 11% higher versus prior year.
Underlying sales increased 6% year-on-year due to 4% higher volumes driven by Tonnage Gases Electronics Performance Materials and Merchant Gases segments and 2% higher pricing.
Operating income of $425 million increased 6% from prior year due primarily to volume growth.
Our operating margin declined to 16.3% down 80 basis points versus prior year with 50 basis points due to currency and higher raw material pass-through and the rest due to price under recovery of cost inflation.
For the quarter net income increased 11% and diluted earnings per share increased by 12% each versus prior year.
Our return on capital employed on an instantaneous our run rate basis improved to 13.5%.
Turning to Slide 6 for a review of the factors that affected the quarter's performance in terms of earnings per share.
Our adjusted continuing operations earnings per share increased by $0.16.
Higher volumes increased earnings per share by $0.07 year-on-year.
Pricing energy and raw materials taken together were flat and costs were about $0.01 unfavorable as our productivity gains were more than offset by cost inflation.
Currency translation in foreign exchange netted to a $0.02 favorable impact.
Equity affiliate income was $0.07 higher partially due to better results in Mexico India Thailand and South Africa.
Equity affiliate income also included a positive of $0.04 of good news from nonoperational items which was offset by an accounting adjustment of a similar amount in non-controlling interest.
Lower interest expense a lower tax rate and fewer shares outstanding altogether were $0.05 positive.
Now I'll turn the call over to Simon to review our business segment results.
Simon? Thanks Paul.
Please turn to Slide 7 Merchant Gases.
Merchant Gases sales of just over $1 billion were up 10% versus prior year.
Underlying sales improved by 5% on 4% higher volumes with growth in Asia and U.S./Canada and 1% higher pricing again driven by Asia and U.S./Canada.
Currency increased sales by 5%.
Sequentially sales were up 2% with 3% positive volume flat pricing and a minus 1% currency impact.
Just to note we are now using the term U.S./Canada rather than North America to more accurately reflect the countries we are reporting.
Our strong business in Mexico is reported as an equity affiliate so it's not included in these results.
Merchant Gases' operating income of $192 million was up 4% versus prior year and 6% sequentially.
Segment operating margin of 18.4% was down one 110 basis points versus prior year but up 70 basis points sequentially.
Versus last year volume and price increased operating income but the price increases were not enough to fully recover raw material cost increases particularly in Europe.
Versus prior quarter positive volume combined with better operating and distribution cost performance drove the margin expansion.
Let me now provide a few additional comments by region.
Please turn to Slide 8.
In U.S./Canada sales improved 8% versus prior year.
Volumes were up 5% with particular strength in both argon and hydrogen.
Pricing was 3% positive with improvement across the product lines as we took actions to recover higher costs.
LOX/LIN capacity utilization improved to the mid-70s.
Consistent with our plans contract signings were very strong again this quarter above the good Q3 results.
This will translate into positive volume momentum through next year.
In Europe sales increased 8% versus last year all due to currency.
Volumes were relatively flat across the businesses pricing was positive in liquid/bulk and packaged gases but offset by continued negative price pressure in healthcare.
The positive liquid/bulk price was an improvement over last quarter but still do not fully recover cost increases.
LOX/LIN plant loadings were in the low 80s.
In Asia sales were up 30% versus last year with underlying sales up 23% and a 7% positive impact from currency.
Volumes were up 20% with growth across the product lines LOX/LIN volumes were up 22% in China.
Pricing continued to be strong up 3% with the LOX/LIN prices up 5%.
Plant loadings are around 80% as we continue to add capacity and sales to the system.
Signings for the quarter were well above last year.
This quarter we continue to demonstrate our focus on and success in emerging markets.
In August we announced a new contract to supply our fully integrated Oxy fuel combustion solution to Guangzhou Chung Sung century Fiber Glass in Nansha China to reduce emissions and improve productivity in glass filament production.
We will supply our clean fire oxy fuel burners and flow control skid and we will install a prism BSA unit for on-site oxygen generation.
Last month we announced an agreement to acquire a 25% stake in the gases and equipment businesses of Abdula Hashin Industrial Gases and Equipment Co.
the largest industrial gas company in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
We are excited about using our successful joint venture strategy in the Middle East.
This strategy of combing our partners' local market and country knowledge with our skills and engineering operations applications and finance has led to our leadership positions in Taiwan Korea Spain and other countries.
Deepening our relationship with AHG gives us the opportunity to participate in the strong Merchant Gases growth in Saudi Arabia and is a significant new platform from which to pursue Tonnage Gas opportunities throughout the Middle East.
Please turn to Slide 9 Tonnage Gases.
Tonnage Gases sales of $883 million increased 17% versus last year with volumes up 11% energy and raw material pass-through increasing sales by 3% and a positive 3% currency affect.
Sequentially sales were up 2% on 3% higher volumes and 1% lower energy and raw material pass-through.
The volume increase is relative to both prior year and prior quarter were primarily driven by new projects.
Operating income of $152 million was up 30% from prior year and 32% sequentially on higher volumes improved operating efficiency and reduced maintenance costs.
We also had a net gain from contract modifications of a about $0.05 in the quarter.
As expected after a number of scheduled maintenance outages in Q2 and Q3 Q4 maintenance spending was lower.
Operating margin of 17.2% increased to 160 basis points versus prior year and 400 basis points sequentially on the higher operating income.
Moving to new business.
We were pleased to announce the long-term hydrogen supply agreement for Shell Oil's Deer Park Texas refinery and for Motiva Enterprise's Convent Louisiana refinery.
Both contracts will be supported by Air Products' industry-leading Gulf Coast hydrogen pipeline supply network that will serve multiple refinery and petrochemical companies from New Orleans on the east to the Houston ship channel on the West.
We also on our third long-term contract to supply oxygen and nitrogen to Wison and Clean Energy Limited's coal classification facility in Nanjing China.
We will build own and operate our third air separation unit and integrate a liquefier to supply Wison and produce liquid oxygen nitrogen and argon for the growing regional Merchant industrial gas market.
These awards are concrete examples of the key market growth drivers we shared at our Investor Conference in June.
Please turn to Slide 10 Electronics and Performance Materials.
Segment sales of $587 million were up 12% compared to last year on 5% higher volumes 4% higher pricing and 3% currency.
Sequentially sales were down 3% on lower volumes.
Electronics sales were up 17% compared to last year and up 2% sequentially as industry growth slowed as we expected.
Electronic materials sales were up modestly versus last year while Tonnage and equipment continued to show strong growth.
Electronics specialty materials pricing remained stable.
Performance material sales increased 7% versus last year with 9% higher prices and a 3% positive currency affect offsetting a 5% volume decline.
Sequentially sales were down 9% primarily on the volume declines.
The softness in PMD reflects slowdowns in key markets including housing construction and autos.
Operating income of $92 million was up 9% versus prior year primarily due to Electronics volumes and Performance Materials pricing and was down 16% sequentially due to lower Performance Materials volumes.
Segment operating margin of 15.6% was down 50 basis points versus prior year due to higher costs down 250 basis points sequentially due to lower volumes and higher costs.
Margins exceeded the FY '11 target of 15% by 80 basis points for the year.
In new projects we announced the new nitrogen plant at our site in the Chonan Industrial Complex in Korea and a second contract with Samsung mobile display to supply gaseous nitrogen and oxygen and liquid argon for their active matrix organic light-emitting diode production in Tanjeong Korea.
Finally earlier this quarter we announced plans to more than double our nitrogen trifluoride or NF3 capacity at our Ulsan Korea site.
NF3 remains the chamber cleaning gas of choice for semiconductor display and photovoltaic manufacturers.
This plan will leverage our existing site infrastructure to expand our reliable and cost-effective NF3 supply.
Now please turn to Slide 11 Equipment and Energy.
Sales of $96 million were down 25% versus prior year on lower ASU and LNG sales and up 21% sequentially on higher ASU sales.
Operating income of $12 million was down 43% versus prior year due to lower sales and up 34% sequentially due primarily to favorable year-end cost absorption.
Our backlog is up versus prior year and sequentially on several new large ASU orders.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Paul.
Thanks Simon.
Now if you'll turn to Slide #12 I'd like to share our thoughts on our outlook.
After a fairly good start during the first half of fiscal 2011 we saw economic growth decline as uncertainty grew.
Because of this uncertainty our fiscal 2012 forecast for economic growth has a wider range than in past years.
Globally for the regions we operate in we see economic growth of 2% to 5%.
On the pessimistic side of this range we would see the following scenarios: for the U.S.
if the current fiscal and policy uncertainties continue this would likely keep consumer confidence low; automobile production slow; housing at its current low level and the investment climate depressed resulting in about 1% manufacturing growth.
Asia would see the contraction of consumer markets in the U.S.
and Europe and we would not expect Chinese consumer spending to significantly offset this.
Investment activity would be held down by overcapacity concerns and we would expect regional growth to drop to 4%.
For Europe while we are not forecasting a full-fledged financial crisis we are forecasting that current negative trends continue and the region would have a modest manufacturing recession with an expected 2% contraction.
On the optimistic side of this range we would see the following scenarios: in the U.S.
we would start to see a consensus form in advance of the election which leads to improved consumer confidence and business investment starting a virtuous cycle of growth in the second half of our fiscal year; we would expect 5% economic growth; in Asia the attempts to drive greater consumer spending in China would succeeded and demand would grow across the region along with better export markets to the U.S.
and Europe; expected growth would rise to 9%; in Europe the negative trends would start to reverse as the governments made progress on their fiscal problems however expected growth would still be weak at 1%.
This broad range of economic scenarios results in a wider range for earnings of $5.90 to $6.30 per share for 2012.
While the outcomes could vary we are prepared to execute our business plans and adapt to whatever economic environment emerges.
Walking from our 2011 earnings per share of $5.73 we have the following factors.
New plant on-streams in 2011 and 2012 should add $0.30 to $0.35.
These are projects that are either onstream now or will be on stream soon and our backed by contract contractual commitments to buy.
We should see this growth independent of global economic conditions.
Loading existing assets should add $0.10 to $0.40 to earnings per share.
This is the factor most influenced by the economy.
In Equipment and Energy we expect fiscal 2012 operating results will be down due to less LNG activity a $0.05 to $0.10 headwind.
Pension expense will be about a $0.05 headwind due to the drop in interest rates from 2010 to 2011 and lower asset returns.
And we see a $0.10 headwind from a higher tax rate approximately 26%.
In any economic environment cost control and cost reductions are important factors that drive earnings margin and return improvement.
For 2012 our bottom line should also improve from our productivity efforts and we will remain diligent on discretionary spending new programs and staffing.
Now turning to our outlook by business segment.
In Merchant Gases we are continuing to add selling resources in the U.S.
to drive volume growth as we focus on new applications and expand our micro bulk offering.
We continue to expand our Merchant capacity in Asia manufacturing growth along with our new applications efforts should lead to strong volume growth.
In Europe we will continue to derive prices higher to offset higher energy costs and take actions to reduce operating costs.
In our Tonnage Gases segment we will see the benefit from the full year loading of our fiscal 2011 startups along with a number of investments due to come onstream this year.
A list of our major projects is in the appendix slide.
On the new order front we have announced and expect to continue to announce a significant number of new projects which will provide growth in 2013 and beyond.
For Electronics we are forecasting modest silicon growth of 0% to 5% for 2012.
We expect that our position with the industry leaders should help us grow faster than the industry as they are making the majority of new capital investments.
Electronics industry capital expenditures after 2 very strong years is forecasted to decline 15% to 20% in 2012.
Our Electronics Equipment business results are expected to slow accordingly.
However this would still make 2012 the second highest capital spending year for the industry.
For Performance Materials we expect the current volume softness to continue through Q1.
But when economic conditions improve volume growth should return as we benefit from our low-cost production facilities and our new product market and application successes.
Before we turn to the next quarter I want to briefly address a question we have heard.
What if 2012 turns into a re-run of 2009 and the world goes back into a recession? First we believe the world is different from both an economic and an Air Product standpoint.
With regard to the economy autos and housing which were hit hard have not fully recovered.
Therefore they have less relative exposure.
Electronics had a massive inventory correction but today inventories are at a much lower level.
And both corporations and consumers have delevered their balance sheets and are financially stronger.
With regard to Air Products we're also much stronger our margins are 200 basis points higher than in 2008 and our Tonnage segment in 2009 we experienced a significant drop in the value of our operating efficiencies due to the large drop in natural gas prices.
With already low natural gas prices our operating results should be more stable.
And Electronics has restructured its business strengthened its position with the industry leaders improved its product portfolio and increased segment margins by over 450 basis points.
So if we do go into a global recession we don't see 2012 being as bad as 2009.
Turning to Slide #13.
Our guidance for quarter 1 is for earnings per share of $1.31 to $1.39 based on the following factors.
On the positive side we expect to see increased earnings sequentially from new plant onstreams including our new hydrogen plant in Rotterdam and the Weihe oxygen on-site and Merchant plant.
Offsetting this sequential improvement in Merchant Gases and Electronics and Performance Materials we expect flat economic growth along with the lower seasonal demand.
In Tonnage Gases profits are expected to decline due to higher maintenance spending financial difficulties with a particular customer in our polyurethane intermediates business and the quarter 4 contract modifications.
So we expect our quarter 1 operating profit level in the Tonnage segment to be similar to the level delivered in quarter 1 last year.
Consistent with the full year guidance we will see lower Equipment and Energy profits.
Equity affiliates pension and currency will be negative but they will be roughly offset by lower non-controlling interest on lower taxes.
As I said we believe there is a chance that Europe goes into a recession and at best we'll have flat to very slight growth.
Therefore regardless of the economy during Q1 we will begin to take actions to reduce our costs across the region.
These actions are not yet fully defined and any cost or benefits from these actions are not included in our guidance.
Please turn to Slide #14 for our capital spending outlook.
Our capital spending for 2011 was $1.6 billion.
For 2012 we expect that our capital spending will be between $1.9 billion and $2.2 billion an increase of 20% to 40%.
This includes a maintenance capital expenditure of $300 million to $350 million in line with prior year.
The majority of our spending is in the Tonnage area with about $1 billion associated with new large plants and pipelines.
When you look across all 4 business segments over 75% of our growth capital expenditures is under long-term take or pay contracts.
You can also see that the majority of our spending is in the Americas and Asia.
We continue to work on acquisition opportunities including captive plans from customers and we also continue to look for focused opportunities that complement our existing positions such as our investment in Saudi Arabia.
Now let me wrap up.
We had a good 2011 growing sales and earnings double digits while continuing to make improvements in our operating margin and most importantly our return on capital.
The increase in capital spending we announced today plus the bidding activity we are seeing gives us a number of excellent opportunities for the future beyond 2012.
As we move forward our priority is to deliver the growth margin improvement and higher returns that'll make us the best investment choice in the industry for our shareholders.
2012 will certainly offer its challenges as we work through the economic uncertainties.
However we believe we are well positioned to make the progress we need to deliver our 2015 goals.
Thank you and now I'll turn the call over to David to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly I wanted to talk about the Saudi Arabia opportunity.
How big can this investment become given the install base of petrochemicals in that country and sort of the future growth with projects like Dow's Saudi Arabia [ph] project? Yes.
And P.J.
you're right.
In Saudi and the Middle East in general offers a very big opportunity for us.
Our investment on AHG is to get us a foothold and an operating base within the country which we think is very important.
From there we think of many of the opportunities for this growth come on the on-site area for very large plants.
And we see this going out.
And so we could have in the future billions of dollars invested in the Middle East.
It will be primarily as we look forward a market which is built on on-sites yes you're right.
Research Division</strong> And just quickly on Electronics.
You talked about the slowdown there in core Electronics business.
Can you tell us what's happening with semiconductor fabs in Taiwan and if that slowdown that you talked about continue in 4Q? And then just remind us your exposure on LCDs? And Simon? Yes.
Thanks Paul.
Thanks P.J.
good question.
So obviously as we talked about last quarter we had seen some slowing in certain segments in the Electronics market.
I think that has continued and we see that being fairly flat going through the first half of next year with an expected pick up in the second half of the year.
But as Paul mentioned we see MSI for the year in a range of 0% to 5%.
I would just also make the point though that while that's fairly modest growth we saw sequential sales in Electronics up 2% and we see the number of our customers make comments this week that certainly would clarify that we're in no danger of seeing any significant downturn like we have seen in the past.
I mean Intel talked about inventories being tightly managed and obviously Apple reported very strong sequential sales increases in their units.
So again I think we see flat but no sign of any significant downturn.
And next we'll go to Jeff Zekauskas with J.P.
Morgan.
Research Division</strong> It looks like your Merchant gas profitability still hasn't recovered in that your revenues in the quarter are lower than they were in the first quarter when you weren't roughly $200 million.
So what's delaying the recovery of the margin recovery of that business? And how do you see that next year in terms of being able to throw off the factors that are depressing your profitability? Okay Jeff and that's a good question and I'll update everybody on our progress on -- in the margins in the Merchant area.
Because we did make progress this quarter.
And we outlined a number of actions last quarter in which we said we're going to take.
The first of those actions was within the U.S.
to improve our volumes there.
We made good progress.
We had 5% growth in volumes.
We are working to get that better obviously.
I think the good news which Simon reported is quarter 4 was that the signings were up from quarter 3 and when we just compare our signings for the second half when our actions and post-Airgas started to take some effect to the first half our signings our 2x in the second half what they were in the first half.
So we're still hiring salespeople.
That effort I believe is on track and will accomplish the goals which we have.
As we said it's going to take some time for us to see this.
It will take probably through the next year as we see these customers brought on stream because it takes 6 to 9 months to marry a customer on stream.
With regard to Europe and the prices which we talked about the Europe pricing as you heard was flat that was healthcare being down.
Improved pricing in Europe on the liquid/bulk side.
However we're not recovering the increased power there and we need to do that.
So we did more actions on pricing and we need to be better there.
So I'd like the trend of pricing starting to move up but it's not fixed yet and we need to get more things going there.
Operational issues which we had.
We had less this quarter.
So we are improving in those things.
You can see that in the cost performance.
We still have some other things which we've got to do to bring plants onstream to end the distribution cost.
We talked about the LaPorte plant and the Riley Ridge helium plant which help in our supply of argon and helium which will lower our distribution costs in those areas.
And they come onstream in quarter 1 of this year and we'll likely -- we'll see the effect in quarter 2.
Helium supply is still short and the Riley Ridge plant will help us there to come on stream.
So overall we think that we like the improvement.
But we still think that there is more.
Prior year was higher but we intend to go there.
So first quarter we're not going to have everything in.
There is a seasonal volume decline so it's going probably tough but we look towards the second third and fourth quarters for that getting a lot better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thank you for that.
And for my follow-up your equity income was $55 million in the fourth quarter and normally you report about $35 million in equity income.
So you are up $20 million.
So is that a one-time item? And I suppose if it's not a one-time item do you expect to grow off that number in 2012 or what's the normalized level of your equity income given this sharp increase in the quarter? Yes Jeff.
And the thing which I talked about was that on the equity income was that we did have a one-time item of about $0.04 a share.
So if you take that and that number out the $0.04 about $10 million to $12 million or so.
If you take that out then you go to the performance for this quarter.
Realize that all of this is income which comes from overseas principally.
And so a lot of it is subject to the fluctuations on currency also.
So giving a normalized level is tough when the currency fluctuate about a lot.
But otherwise the one-time items take that out and you got a good level there.
And next we'll go to John McNulty with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions.
Paul when I look at the upper end of what you're guiding to and some of the assumptions so global manufacturing up 5% with the U.S.
up 5% and Asia up 9%.
They seem like pretty decent kind of outlooks and yet you're calling for about 10% EPS growth which is kind which is below your long-term target of what looks to be 15% to 16% to get to that 2015 goal.
So I guess I'm wondering why isn't -- why wouldn't the EPS be higher if you kind of hit this high-end of the range in terms of global manufacturing growth? And how should we think about that growth maybe potentially accelerating in the out years for you to hit your target? And John I think a couple of things in which people should understand about the guidance here is that a lot of the pickup which we talked about occurs in the second half of the year.
So we see regardless of the economic scenario a slow first half.
The other aspect of these things is that we do tend to lag a little bit a quarter or 2 in a number of areas in responding to what happens in the economy with things.
And so I could see a delay where the economies pickup but we don't follow directly in that particular quarter.
And so that is really what happens which would then say that yes 2013 growth would be stronger than what you would expect to see from the economy.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then just a question on your Electronics.
You had relatively decent pricing this year and in the past that was never the case.
What's your pricing outlook for 2012? Can we see further price increases or was this kind of a one-time ratchet up and we kind of stay level from this point forward? And the goal of Electronics here as we said are the key prices flat to up for us going forward.
So we think that and that we can continue the price improvement here.
If you broke the 2 businesses apart the price performance in Performance Materials was better than price performance in Electronics for the year on that.
But Electronics previously had been one which had been declining and so over the past 2 years and we have seen our price performance be a lot better.
And next we'll go to Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A question on Tonnage.
You mentioned that you had about $0.05 of gains there related to some contract modifications.
I was wondering if you could give us a sense of what was modified? Whether it was in Tonnage per se or Paul the polyurethane intermediates what the nature of the modifications might have been? And whether we should consider those modifications to be a source of durable gains or is it more transitory in nature? Yes.
And Kevin and it was contract mods in the on-site area not in the polyurethane business.
So it gets around as we have events as we change contracts as we move volume around and commitments of volume around.
As we roll contracts very often we have events which lead to an accounting gain or loss on those things.
And typically those things are not all that large.
In this quarter we had a couple of them which when you combine them and they made to a large gain for us in this quarter.
So we decided to guide you because it doesn't repeat.
But we do have sources of gains and losses which put a little noise and the Tonnage business just get's it it is the nature of the business but normally it's not big enough to spike out or to see.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up Paul in Merchant what was the magnitude of the pressure that you saw in healthcare-related pricing and on the positive side? It sounded like LOX/LIN would would've been up regionally in Europe and maybe you could size that for us? Yes.
And LOX/LIN pricing was up I'm recalling now I think LOX/LIN was about 3% for that.
The healthcare pricing I remember it by and by the individual contracts but I would say it's probably about 4% to 5%.
Next we'll go to David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Paul just on the backlog given a large number of projects coming on in 2012 will the $2.5 billion backlog be up or down by year end 2012 versus 2011? And that depends upon the award activity.
But for right now the way in which we see the world panning out and the way in which we see these bids happening we would expect our backlog to be up.
Research Division</strong> And just given the 30-ish $0.40 of earnings growth in '12 versus '11 would that be the same amount in '13 versus '12? Given based on what we have in the backlog today would be up or down or lower? It would probably close to the same.
It could increase as we get some smaller projects on so we still need the ability to raise that a little bit.
But I'd say it'd be about the same.
Next we have Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First an observation it seems like you guys get picked on quite a bit for your Electronics exposure.
But it seemed like in the quarter at least Electronics held pretty well and it was the Performance Materials side that had the challenges.
Just wondering in those end markets you called out housing and construction and autos can you give us a little more feel for what's going on a specifically? I would have thought autos was improving as Japan came back globally auto rates improving.
And then I thought housing and construction was already pretty coarse.
So is there something specific to your business or your product lines that might be different than the macros there? And Bob I think another thing which I think factored in the business is we have seen a lot of concern from the people who bought from us and the customer base that they don't want to build inventory.
And so people are paying a lot of attention to that because they're concerned about the economy going forward and therefore what they did during this quarter is a they took the inventories down for their products.
So I don't think it's so much related exactly to production.
But people are concerned going forward about producing too much and being called inventory.
So we did see that occur over the summer.
Research Division</strong> And Paul I know you don't see this as a prelude to the economic environment of '09 but I mean clearly to get to your '15 targets you need a pretty massive acceleration after a slower year end 2012.
So would you expect to defer those 2015 targets or do you think there's still a reasonable chance you could achieve those? No.
We do not think -- no and we're not going to defer them and we still think there is a good chance for us to get there.
We are still very pleased with the markets and the opportunities which we see for investment which drive this.
So I think we're on track as you see in the capital spending area for growing our capital expenditures and what that means is that there's growth which sits behind there in the 2013 '14 and '15.
All right.
And next we have Dan Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Paul question on just your guidance outlook it does seem somewhat conservative.
The midpoint is about 8% or actually 6.5% on a reported basis.
Is part of that conservatism due to the fact that you've kind of have a number of one-time items? It seems in this quarter alone you had about $0.09 of one-time items.
Well I think and the concern which we have Don is with the economy.
As I've talked about it.
And does the economy picked up in the second half of the 2012 or not from where we see it today.
You can see the quarter 1 guidance for us is low and we're not happy but we think it reflects the reality of what we're seeing in the economy out there.
I don't think it reflects the noise from one-time items.
And maybe just also -- Don sorry this is Simon too you mentioned $0.09 as a one-time items.
I mean I think maybe just for a second we did talk about the $0.05 in the Tonnage contract roll and while there were some items in the equity affiliates they were kind of offset by the minority interest line as well.
So those kind of sets so we would have said it's more like a $0.05 one time.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Maybe just to follow up on the Tonnage but back out that $0.05 I guess it's about $14 million to get you to about 15.6% which is still well below your 2015 target of 17% to 20%.
And given that you have such a high proportion of hydrogen where at $4 or $5 natural gas it's hard above sort of 14% to 15% margins.
What drives that big margin improvement in Tonnage? Are you going to get more aggressive say on financial engineering and perhaps not taking title of the gas so that you get the benefit of not passing through that cost component? We're not going to try to do it by trying to wave our hands or trying to engineer this from a financial standpoint.
The way in which we're going to do this is we have a backlog in China which we talked about in the gasification end.
We have more projects to announce there and those projects are oxygen and the margins and the returns on them are very good and they will help drive that margin up higher.
Because there are going to rep a lot of investments for us going forward here.
And you can see the Asia portion of our capital expenditures has picked up and we expect that to continue to grow.
And next we have a Mike Harrison with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> I was -- first of all hoping as we're talking about these sort of one-time items.
Can you just segregate what's in the negative $22 million number in the corporate operating income number? Yes Mike.
And so -- and there's a slide in the backup for that.
You'll see the big number which is included there is an inventory number which and so I'll explain what happened to this.
In total the inventory number which affected the corporation in total is about $2 million unfavorable.
What happens is at year end is we do 2 things.
First within the books we use a standard cost in our P&amp;Ls and so what that means if you go back to accounting courses you take the inventory out its standard and you put the inventory in its standard and that goes into the COGS and the purchase price variances flow through the P&amp;L.
At the end of the year we do our inventory on the balance sheet and they get they get valued at current cost for those things.
And so there is a write up or a write down of inventories which occurs within the business segments.
In the U.S.
only then we also adjust to LIFO which occurs at the corporate level in total on that thing.
So it's a gain or loss and which gets impacted there.
So the $19 million or so on inventory I believe is all relates to those 2 adjustments on net for the company is $2 million unfavorable.
Research Division</strong> All right and just looking at demand trends overall in key end markets can you talk a little bit about areas that you watch as leading indicators and it sounds like there is sort of indicating to you that things are softening and that there are areas of concern.
I don't think you would guide to a number like you've guided just based on what you're reading in the headlines and what the are seeing.
We watched the statistics and we watched the trends on a sequential basis.
And so we do have -- and real concerns as we talked about from an economy standpoint about the amount of uncertainty which holds back on the invest in business holds about people creating jobs which you need to create jobs to get consumer confidence to get consumers to buy.
And so as we look at it the economy is a just kind of limping along globally to a very large extent in many instances.
And what we're looking for really is some signs of some of these issues which hang over everybody around the uncertainty to get the economy to start to move again.
But the developed world is in tough shape from an economic standpoint right now.
Corporations are doing well and we're doing well on a financial standpoint.
But volumes -- and the volume growth is just not there in many instances and we're concerned about that.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And lastly I was hoping to maybe just get some more details on the Merchant business.
You kind of referenced expecting to see some improvement in LAR in some of the dislocation issues you've been seeing related to LaPorte Texas as well as the new helium project that's coming onstream.
Just maybe a little better sense of kind of a supply-demand dynamics on LAR and helium? Good question.
As Paul said both those projects are coming on in the next quarter.
So when they come on that'll loosen things up a little bit.
We have talked in the past about helium being tight globally longer term than that.
So they will help but they will not solve the problem.
And next we'll go to Mike Sison with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the $0.30 $0.35 of new plant earnings of this year in '12 is that fairly even throughout the year or is it maybe a little bit front-end loaded back-end loaded? I think it is pretty even.
When I look at this overall Mike I think we have plans coming on throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one quick follow-up on Merchant.
What type of incremental leverage do you expect to get back to and will we see that at some point in 2012? You will start to see the operating leverage from North America probably in late Q1 and Q2 Q3 and Q4 with the signings that we have.
I just go by the rules of thumb which we have so I would expect to see that happening.
As far as the operating leverage is concerned we have the ability probably to sell another $150 million or so within the U.S.
just based upon the leverage which exists today and before we got to a sold-out condition.
So it's a pretty nice -- a nice margin comes with that.
And next we have David Manthey with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> First off what are the top and bottom line impacts from currency that you're assuming in your fiscal year '12 guidance? And also do you just assume constant natural gas prices in your forecast? Yes.
And what we do is we pick a gas forecast out there so the forecast for gas is pretty consistent to what we saw in 2011 was a little over $4 or so.
If I look at the guidance here we actually have in our guidance the dollar strengthening against the euro overall from that and some deterioration against the RMB.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question sort of economic macro.
What odds would you place on a mild economic recession or global recession in the coming year? And you've mentioned a couple of times that you sort of expect acceleration in the back half of the year and I'm wondering as your comments earlier sound like pretty uncertain what gives you confidence that we will see that? Okay.
First I do not see a global recession occurring.
So the odds that I place on it would be low from my standpoint.
I do think the odds in Europe are higher but not for a global one.
If you then took a look at and said the confidence on the second half of the year I think what happens is hopefully some of these uncertainties start to resolve.
We gave the thing for the U.S.
it is that within the U.S.
we start to see a consensus emerge on things like tax reform regulations entitlements spending and things like that.
And people start to see a way forward where they can start to predict what impact is that going to have on the decision which I mean -- we're talking to make to run my business.
Once we see that I think people will start to expand invest hire people and stuff like that.
And once we get the politicians somewhat in line with these things and we get a path forward I think it gets better for that.
In Europe I think as they continue to work through the current crisis which exists there as they start to see and resolve those things in whatever way they go whether they go worse or better on things as we work our through.
We're going to get at some point to an end at that and I think that probably occurs sometime within the next year or so.
And next we'll go to Mark Gulley with Ticonderoga.
Research Division</strong> Paul I recognize just 4 months after your Investor Day in New York you start to change the goal.
Well I'll check some math with you.
If I take the fiscal '12 guidance in order to get to the $10 earnings share number you sort of implied back in June you'd have to grow earnings 18% per year for years the last 4 years in that period.
Is that about right and is that what you're sort of telling us today? Yes yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe a little bit of detail on the tax rate.
Why is it accelerating a little bit in fiscal '12? And the reason for us taking up tax rate is we continue to see pressure in the government to close things down to make things harder to take advantage of credits and other things which we have.
So we think there is upward pressure on taxes going forward.
Okay.
And thank you everyone for joining us today.
The whole Air Products team is excited by the opportunities which we face and are committed to take the actions to improve our performance in 2012 and beyond.
Hope every one has a good weekend.
And that does conclude today's conference and we thank you for participating.
Good morning and welcome to the Air Products and Chemicals First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also this telephone conference presentation and the comments made on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
Air Products will be recording this teleconference and may publish all or a portion of the teleconference.
No other recording or redistribution of this telephone conference by any other party are permitted without the express written permission of Air Products.
Your participation indicates your agreement.
Beginning today's call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Moore you may begin.
Thank you Mark.
Good morning and welcome to Air Products First Quarter Earnings Teleconference.
This is Simon Moore.
Today our CFO Paul Huck and I will review our Q1 results and outlook for the remainder of 2012.
We issued our earnings release this morning.
It is available on our website along with the slides for this teleconference.
Please go to airproducts.com to access the materials.
Instructions for accessing the replay of this call beginning at 2:00 p.m.
Eastern Time are also available on our website.
Please turn to Slide 2.
As always today's teleconference will contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions.
Please review the information on these slides and at the end of today's earnings release explaining factors that may affect these expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Paul for a review of our financials.
Thanks Simon.
Good day everyone and thanks for joining us.
Please turn to Slide #3 for a review of our first fiscal quarter of 2012.
For the quarter sales of $2.4 billion were 1% higher versus prior year.
Underlying sales increased 1% year-on-year on higher prices in our Merchant Gases and performance materials businesses.
While overall volumes were flat volumes were higher from new plants in Tonnage Gases but were offset by lower equipment sales and lower volumes in our performance materials and Merchant Gases businesses.
Sequentially sales declined 7% with volumes down 4% due to seasonality in our Electronics and Performance Materials and Merchant Gases segments.
Merchant volumes declined more than we expected as we experienced weakness in Asia including China.
Simon will provide the geographic details later.
Sequentially lower energy prices reduced sales growth by 1% and currency reduced sales growth by 2%.
At the current rates currency would be a headwind for the remainder of 2012.
Operating income of $385 million decreased 5% from prior year due primarily to lower volumes in our equipment and Merchant Gases segments.
Higher pricing did not fully recover raw material increases but productivity offset this impact.
Our operating margin declined to 15.9% down 100 basis points versus prior year and was 60 basis points due to volume and the rest due to under recovery of raw material increases.
For the quarter net income decreased 1% while diluted earnings per share increased by 1% due to share repurchases.
Our return on capital employed on an instantaneous or run-rate basis dropped to 12.2%.
On an annual basis return on capital employed is 13%.
Turning to Slide 4 for a review of the factors that affected the quarter's performance in terms of earnings per share.
As we announced back in October we settled the dispute in Spain where the authorities disallowed certain deductions taken by the company's Spanish subsidiaries in fiscal years 2005 to 2011.
This $44 million or $0.20 per share charge is excluded from our quarter 1 EPS analysis.
Our adjusted continuing operations earnings per share increased by $0.01.
Lower volumes decreased earnings per share by $0.05 year-on-year.
Pricing energy and raw materials taken together reduced EPS by $0.02.
And costs were $0.02 favorable as our productivity gains more than offset cost inflation.
Currency translation and foreign exchange taken together had a $0.02 unfavorable impact.
Equity affiliate income was $0.03 higher as the prior year had a charge for a plant sale within one of our Asian affiliates.
Excluding the Spanish tax settlement and as we guided to last quarter our effective tax rate of 23.5% contributed about $0.02.
For fiscal year 2012 we still expect the rate to be in the range of 25% to 26%.
And finally fewer shares outstanding contributed $0.03.
Now I'll turn the call over to Simon to review our business segment results.
Simon? Thanks Paul.
Please turn to Slide 5 Merchant Gases.
Merchant Gases' overall sales of $989 million and underlying sales were both unchanged from prior year with positive pricing offset by lower volumes.
Sequentially sales declined 5% due to a 3% unfavorable currency impact and lower volumes partially due to seasonality.
Pricing was positive.
Merchant Gases' operating income of $192 million was down 4% versus prior year and flat sequentially.
Segment operating margin of 19.4% was down 90 basis points compared to last year but up 100 basis points sequentially.
Versus last year operating income declined on lower volumes particularly in our European liquid/bulk and packaged gas businesses.
Our cost performance improved significantly this quarter but did not overcome the volume decline.
The startup of our new LaPorte ASU this quarter helped alleviate the liquid argon sourcing challenges we had previously experienced.
Versus prior quarter the improved operating and distribution cost performance offset lower volumes and unfavorable currency as operating income was flat.
And the 100 basis point improvement in operating margin versus prior quarter resulted from the improved operating and cost performance more than overcoming the impact of lower volumes.
Let me now provide a few additional comments by region.
Please turn to Slide 6.
In U.S./Canada sales improved 2% versus prior year.
Volumes were down 1% on weakness in food medical electronics and distributors.
Helium sourcing challenges continued.
We expect our new U.S.
helium facility to be onstream late in our second quarter as we are awaiting feedstock from our supplier.
Pricing was 3% positive with improvement across the product lines as we took actions to recover higher costs.
LOX/LIN capacity utilization is in the low 70s.
Contract signings were below recent high levels but our prospect pipeline remains robust and we expect strong signings next quarter and through the rest of the year.
In Europe sales decreased 2% versus last year.
Volumes were down 2% partially due to business we've shed to improve profitability in the region as well as weakness in the packaged gas market.
Pricing was positive in liquid/bulk and packaged gases but partially offset by continued negative price pressure in Homecare the business we announced we are divesting.
LOX/LIN plant loadings are in the low 80s and new contract signings were strong this quarter.
In Asia sales were up 2% versus last year with underlying sales flat which is a change from the strong growth trend we had been experiencing.
Overall volumes were up 1%.
LOX/LIN volumes were up 2% excluding conversions as we experienced weaker steel and PV markets notably in China.
Packaged gas volumes increased on continued growth of our micro bulk product line and helium volumes were lower as product availability limited sales.
Pricing was down 1% on lower liquid argon pricing due to prior year price premiums in the China spot market.
Plant loadings are around 80%.
New contract signings were roughly equal to the last few quarters.
We expect signings will improve through the year driven in part by China taking action to stimulate their economy.
This quarter we continued to win business in key emerging markets.
In December we announced that INOX Air Products our joint venture in India will build 2 new air separation units for the growing merchant market in West and South India.
One of the units will also supply nitrogen to Posco Maharashtra Steel for their Phase 2 expansion.
We will also supply hydrogen to Posco from 2 steam methane reformers.
We also signed a contract to provide our integrated oxy-fuel solution to Techpack in Korea.
We will install a VSA non-cryogenic oxygen production unit.
It will control skid and our clean fire burners to reduce emissions and improve energy efficiency and productivity for their glass production.
Please turn to Slide 7 Tonnage Gases.
Tonnage Gases sales of $810 million increased 6% versus last year with volumes up 6% driven by new plants.
Sequentially sales were down 8%.
Volumes were down 2% and we saw a 4% decline from lower energy pass-through.
Operating income of $111 million declined 4% versus prior year as higher maintenance costs more than offset the contribution from new plants.
As expected operating income declined sequentially due to higher maintenance spending favorable gases contract modifications in the prior quarter and an unfavorable polyurethane intermediates contract modification this quarter.
Operating margin of 13.8% decreased 130 basis points versus prior year and 340 basis points sequentially on the lower operating income.
During our Investor Conference last year we shared our view of the significant opportunity in the China market and specifically large on-site oxygen for coal gasification.
We are pleased to have announced another project in this important market segment.
Last month we announced the largest single on-site ASU order ever awarded to supply Shaanxi Future Energy Chemical Company in Yulin Shaanxi Province China.
This multiple train project will produce 12 000 tons per day of oxygen and large quantities of nitrogen and compressed dry air for Shaanxi's coal to chemical plant.
Please turn to Slide 8 Electronics and Performance Materials.
Segment sales of $535 million were up 2% compared to last year on 1% higher volumes and 1% higher pricing.
Sequentially sales were down 9% on lower seasonal semiconductor volumes and soft demand across the LED display and solar markets.
Electronics sales were up 4% compared to last year and down 7% sequentially on seasonality and slower market growth as we expected.
Electronic materials sales were down slightly versus last year while tonnage and equipment were higher.
Electronics materials pricing was stable.
Performance materials sales decreased 1% versus last year with 4% higher prices and a 1% positive currency effect mostly offsetting a 6% volume decline.
Sequentially sales were down 11% primarily on volume declines.
The softness reflects seasonal slowdowns in key markets including housing and construction.
Operating income of $78 million was up 13% versus prior year and the segment operating margin improved 150 basis points to 14.6% on improved cost performance.
Sequentially operating income was down 15% and the operating margin declined 100 basis points primarily due to lower volumes.
In new projects we announced the onstream of the world's first on-site electronics gas plant to supply high-purity ammonia for Sanan OptoElectronics' LED production in Anhui Province China.
To support Sanan's expansion plans we will be building a second high-purity ammonia plant at their site.
Bringing in the stability and scale of the on-site business model to electronics gases is a success for both Air Products and Sanan.
Now please turn to Slide 9 Equipment and Energy.
Sales of $89 million were down 21% versus prior year on lower ASU and LNG sales.
Sequentially sales declined 7% on lower LNG sales.
Operating income of $7 million was down 64% versus prior year and down 37% sequentially due primarily to lower project activity.
Profitability has bottomed in this segment and while it should remain at approximately this level for the next few quarters we expect some improvement in our fourth quarter based on anticipated orders.
Backlog is up 48% over last year primarily on new ASU orders.
Bidding activity remains strong and we hope to announce several LNG orders shortly.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Paul.
Thanks Simon.
Please turn to Slide 10.
Before we discuss our outlook let me make some comments on the sale of our Continental European Homecare business.
Earlier this month we announced that we reached agreement with Linde [ph] to acquire our Homecare business in Spain Germany France Belgium and Portugal subject to regulatory agreement and employee consultation.
Both of these processes are underway and on a timeline to close the transaction by the end of March.
The deal has conditions to modify the price based upon future business results and receivables collections.
Therefore it is too early for us to give you a reasonable estimate of the gain which we will book.
We have also decided to exit our remaining Homecare businesses.
In the second quarter we will begin accounting for the Homecare business in total as a discontinued operation.
As we finalize our restatement we will provide history for people to update their models.
Also in quarter 2 we will begin taking cost-reduction actions and plan to record a charge for cost reduction in our second quarter results.
The charge will cover reductions needed to remove stranded cost resulting from our exit from the Homecare business.
This will involve cost reductions in our corporate regional and Merchant Gases area as we take actions to remove the cost which Linde and other potential purchasers will not assume.
The charge will also cover cost reduction necessary to appropriately size our European business cost structure in light of the European economic recession.
I know everyone has questions as to the size of the reduction the cost and the benefits.
We will detail that information later once we have everything finalized.
For 2012 we expect that the sale of our Homecare business will be modestly dilutive to our earnings per share for continuing operations.
We will take actions to remove the stranded costs buyback shares and pay down debt with the proceeds that should make the transaction neutral to fiscal 2013's earnings per share for continuing operations.
Now let me give you a brief summary of our economic outlook.
As we told you last quarter we expect that the first half of our fiscal year would be slower in the U.S.
and Asia and that Europe would be in a recession.
We also expected that the second half of our fiscal year would be much stronger as economic activity picks up in the U.S.
and Asia.
So far we have seen that scenario play out with continued slow growth in the United States and Asia seeing a slowdown particularly in China as policymakers took actions to control inflation.
Europe continued to decline.
We expect that these conditions will continue through our second quarter.
Looking to the second half of our fiscal year we believe that we should start to see improvements in both the U.S.
and Asia.
For the U.S.
as the election draws closer the debates have changed to how we can create jobs faster.
This should improve both consumer and business confidence thereby strengthening the recovery.
For Asia we have seen some easing of inflation in China.
Going forward during the second half of the year we expect policymakers to shift their focus from fighting inflation to increasing growth.
Asia will also benefit as the U.S.
economy strengthens.
For Europe we expect the second quarter to be the trough.
However recessionary conditions will remain throughout the rest of the year.
In terms of Air Products our capital expenditure guidance remains robust and unchanged at $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion up from last year's $1.6 billion.
And with one quarter completed we are keeping our earnings guidance unchanged as well.
Our earnings per share full year guidance range remains at $5.90 to $6.30.
Now let's turn to our second quarter outlook.
Please turn to Slide 11.
Our guidance for quarter 2 is for earnings per share of $1.37 to $1.43 based on the following factors: On the positive side in Electronics and Performance Materials we expect higher volumes as the first quarter is typically seasonally lower.
In Tonnage Gases profits are expected to improve on higher operating bonuses and lower maintenance costs and also less of an impact from our polyurethane intermediates contracting renegotiation.
Higher volumes from new plant onstreams including our new hydrogen plant in Rotterdam and our new ASU in LaPorte Texas will also contribute.
Merchant volumes should improve in the U.S./Canada as we see the impact of our fiscal 2011 new business signings partially offsetting this sequential improvement.
Our effective tax rate for fiscal quarter 2 should come in between 25% to 26%.
This will be a $0.03 to $0.05 headwind.
We expect the Lunar New Year to negatively impact Asia volumes and we expect currency to be a $0.02 to $0.03 headwind next quarter.
Just to clarify at this time the guidance for both the next quarter and the full year include the Homecare business.
Now let me wrap up.
Quarter 1 started off our fiscal year as we expected.
Our project backlog is strong and now totals just over $2.5 billion a similar level to last quarter with the addition of new air separation unit projects in China offsetting the onstream of our hydrogen plant in Rotterdam and our air separation unit in LaPorte Texas.
You can see a list of our major projects on backup Slide #13.
Our recent orders combined with the strong bidding activity gives us a solid outlook for future growth.
As we move forward our priority remains to deliver the growth margin improvement and higher returns that will make us the best investment choice in the industry for our shareholders.
2012 will certainly offer its challenges.
However we believe we are well positioned to make the progress we need to make to deliver our 2015 goals.
Thank you.
And now I'll turn the call over to Mark to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question today from Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about Asian demand generally in that you talked about a flatness in your Asian merchant growth? And in the old days when China would slow down or Asia would slow down maybe volume growth used to be mid-single digits and now it seems much slower than that.
How do you read it? Or how do you read the differences in your Asian end markets? Well if you take a look Jeff I think what you have to remember -- I think for us is that we do have an electronics business in Asia which last year grew from quarter 4 to quarter 1.
And so -- and that also included the impact which occurs in the merchant area.
This year electronics did what it normally does from quarter 4 to quarter 1 is it contracted.
So that's probably one of the big factors.
It's that we were seeing the growth of electronics and we didn't see the same level of seasonality which we normally see for things.
On top of that we have also seen our volumes in China slow.
And I mentioned that in my remarks principally because the interest rates have been raised a lot in China to kind of control inflation.
We have seen inflation start to ease.
So we don't think it's a long-term condition for them to tighten up the money supply.
And that should ease sometime late quarter 2 or time is our guess.
So probably not right post the Chinese New Year with timing some time right now we're forecasting in the March timeframe.
Those are the 2 big factors for us as we look at that.
Jeff also just a reminder too that obviously we continue to enjoy success in our tonnage volumes.
Your question was appropriately more about the merchant with new business and new project onstream there.
So we do see some strong activity on our tonnage business in Asia and China as we expected.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly if -- your depreciation charges were down year-over-year in the quarter.
And I think the Praxair numbers maybe they run sort of up high single digits.
Is there something different in your business versus their business which is leading to a more level or down depreciation number for you? So -- and we have taken a look at that as to why that happens Jeff a couple of factors which we'll go in.
First the currency aspect of things.
So as the currency -- as the dollar tends to strengthen which it did this quarter it's going to drive the depreciation from our overseas facilities down a little bit with that.
So there's -- that does not have an equalization of it.
Plus the other thing which we have seen over time is that we have seen some facilities roll off their depreciation.
So we have seen that occur.
Those facilities are still operating.
Obviously it helped our margins with -- rolling forward.
Plus a good portion of our capital spending right now you can see this in the capital lease element of things.
That does not get recorded through the depreciation accounts anymore.
And so that's the other factor.
Depending upon the -- but the way in which we treat the one-on-one on-sites does not lead to depreciation.
So a lot of the large gasification plants are not going to have depreciation associated with them.
It's going to have a capital receivable which gets booked as an asset instead of PP&amp;E and then that flows through.
Next we'll hear from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Paul your performance materials business continues to underperform the electronics portfolio.
Is this really a core business for you given all kinds of opportunities that you have in your industrial gases business? Well what you're talking about on the performance materials P.J.
they had a sequential downturn in volumes and a year-on-year downturn on volumes.
The profitability and returns in that business are still very good for us.
And so as we look at this we think it is still an excellent business.
It is not a business which introduces a lot of ups and downs and cyclicality to Air Products for things.
As we look at this we don't have large swings really in that much in our volumes overall in the business.
We continue to see opportunities to get our products formulated in and to make them a steady cash flow for us.
So we're happy with the business.
We think it's performed very well.
And so for right now the answer is yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you look at the commentary from semiconductor companies in January it does materially improve and they're seeing some at the bottom.
So when should you begin to see that improvement in your numbers? And what are your expectations for square inches of silicon this year? So as far as that's concerned and I'll let Simon chime in here too what we would expect is really to have a much stronger second half than the first half period.
So it's probably a few months' lag on that.
Simon you are close to the business? Yes.
Thanks P.J.
And I mean we would still say for the year we expect square inches of silicon to grow in that 0% to 5% range probably right in the middle of that which is what we've talked about last quarter.
And as you pointed out I think generally speaking Intel talked about a stronger second half.
TSMC actually talked about having a better first calendar quarter than seasonality would expect.
And just one statement that we talked about a few times is our strength with Samsung Intel and TSMC.
They're expected to be almost half of the industry CapEx in 2012.
So we continue to benefit from our strong position with them.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly housekeeping.
You had that slide on the project backlog.
None of those projects were in Europe.
So I was wondering what percent of your project backlog is in Europe.
Yes it is a small amount I know of our capital spending P.J.
I think our capital spending is somewhere about 10% to 15% of our CapEx for growth.
Next year is in Europe I guess 12% or something like that.
So it might be 15% but it's not a huge amount for that right now.
And obviously we brought on the big hydrogen plant in Rotterdam.
We do have the one large oxygen plants in Europe that will come onstream in 2013.
But that shouldn't surprise anyone.
And given the European economy right now when you look at things they're not adding a lot of industrial capacity.
And our next question will come from Don Carson Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> For Paul I won't be able to ask you anymore when you're going to sell off European healthcare but I will ask you what you're going to do with polyurethanes.
It seems to be a drag on the tonnage business and has very inconsistent results.
Is that business making money? And tell us more about this negative contract modification you had.
And then one follow-on for merchant.
Your U.S.
operating rate seems stuck in the low 70s.
Is there a need for some capacity rationalization to get that operating rate up? Okay.
First with regard to polyurethane intermediates as you know we said this before it's not a business in which we're investing in.
We don't see the opportunity to extend in the model which we have.
So we have some contracts which we are working through at this point in time.
The business -- as far as today is concerned the returns on the business are still very good.
Our contracts are still very good we think.
So as far as the drag yes it might be a drag on growth.
But a drag of the profits no for us.
And we continue to look at our options going forward for that business but it's not a business which obviously we're going to be investing in.
We can extend the model to Asia.
And most of the PUI -- and most of the TDI production is moving to Asia as you know.
If you then turn to and take a look at what's happening in the U.S.
in merchant the capacity rates have been low.
We would expect that we would start to see improvements in volumes in this quarter based upon -- in the signings which we have seen.
Do we think we need to take capacity out? The answer is no.
We believe that there are opportunities to sell that capacity.
For us we don't see any place in which we can't imagine us being able to sell that based upon the applications which we have.
It was a question of us on the sales force during the Airgas transaction of not pushing as hard not replacing people and not trying to grow the sales force.
We have taken those actions.
We've seen an improvement in signings.
We would expect signings to improve in the second quarter of 2012 also.
And Don I think you also may be asked about the PUI customer maybe just to kind of go back to that.
We talked about that last quarter and we have one specific customer that we described at last quarter we were concerned about their financial viability.
The good news is they're still operating.
We did end up renegotiating their contract and sequentially that was about a $0.03 to $0.04 hit in the tonnage segment.
That will not be -- the delta for the year will not be 4x that.
So there is significant change for this Q1.
And the impact for the rest of the year Q2 through Q4 is probably a little bit less than it was in Q1.
Okay? Probably -- and to clarify that there's probably about $0.03 of bad news year-on-year still to come from what was our run rate.
However the run rate on a sequential basis is going to improve in that business.
Next we'll hear from Duffy Fischer with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> In October you changed out and installed John in merchant global merchant as GM.
Can you kind of talk about what we should expect to see differently with him running that business and what you were trying to change by putting a new person in that spot? Well I think -- and one of the things I'd say -- I think we've already talked about it.
So we're going to take some actions in Europe to reduce our cost structure in that business.
So the focus of the things in which we are trying to improve have been clear from -- for about a year now on that.
We're trying to get the volumes up in the United States and we think we're on the right track to do that.
We're trying to get the prices improved in Europe and we've seen some improvement there.
We're trying to get our cost structure improved in Europe and you'll see some actions coming in the second quarter for that.
We're trying to improve the operating performance of the plants and we've made progress there.
You can see that in the cost in the margins this quarter.
And the last thing is improving on the supply of helium.
So what we expect is for everyone to execute better.
Next we'll hear from John McNulty with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
You indicated that China slowed down a little bit at least in your merchant business based on kind of the overall slowing that the government was putting in place and that you thought that might be short-lived.
What are you seeing on the tonnage side in terms of request for proposals and new projects? Have things slowed down there? Or is that the kind of "steady as she goes"? The answer is yes.
We have seen a slowdown in China.
It has not affected really on the on-site projects or the equipment projects which we're chasing there.
We still see a good backlog and a lot of bid activity.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one follow-up question.
A lot of the growth or at least a reasonable amount of the growth in the U.S.
over the last decade was largely to -- tied to energy efficiency where natural gas prices were high oil prices were high and your customers were looking to be more efficient using things like oxygen.
With natural gas kind of in the 250 to say 275 range how should we think about the potential hit to your business there if there is any kind of looking forward? So -- as far as people it certainly is going to have a damper on people trying to increase the efficiency of natural gas because their benefits are going to be lower.
Oil is still relatively high as far as you look at that.
And other products are still relatively high which provide energy electricity prices albeit a lot but they're still at high prices for things especially due to things like environmental rigs or things.
So I think there's is going to be some hit to the opportunities for things going forward.
But the other thing is that it's going to open up chances for us to do other things with things and we're exploiting those opportunities there too.
Well I think we also believe that low energy prices are very good for the economy which helps provide general economic growth as well.
Next is David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is James Sheehan sitting in for David.
Just with respect to pricing in Europe you started to see some improvement there on the liquid/bulk side and packaged gases.
I'm just wondering about your outlook for pricing going forward given the economic headwinds there.
And do you -- can you comment a little bit about what you're continuing to see in terms of competitive pricing pressure? Okay.
As far as the pricing in Europe we expect that -- and that the prices will continue to improve.
There is still cost pressures for us with the need to recover our increased power cost increased cost of diesel in Europe.
So we still see that as a driver for us.
As far as the competitive pressure the business has always been competitive.
I think we commented on last quarter is that we see our -- we also see our competitors showing a need for price increases also as everyone isn't happy with their margins and their returns in Europe.
So we have seen our competitors raise prices also.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then back on performance materials.
We're starting to see some initial signs of maybe a perking up of the construction market.
What is your outlook on construction? And do you see any material change going forward in 2012? The outlook for us in construction I think is still -- and we're still -- I'm going to say we're not going to be bullish on that yet as far as that is concerned.
Our performance materials business though has performed very well and is prepared to respond to that.
I would expect the volumes to grow from quarter 1 to quarter 2 and to continue to grow in quarter 3 to quarter 4.
Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch has a question.
Research Division</strong> With regard to the European Homecare sale to Linde what is the amount of cash proceeds that you would expect relative to the sale price of EUR 590 million? And what is your expected split of deployment between share repurchases and debt reduction that might be included in your annual earnings guidance please? Thanks Kevin.
And so with regard to that we're going to have to pay taxes on this.
Given where we see that today we think that probably about half of the -- no excuse me -- if you look at the proceeds probably about 20% or so is going to wind up going to cash tax payments for us to make and that will not -- and it isn't the same as booked obviously there because you'll have depreciation in there.
And then we will probably come pretty close to half of that being used for share buyback half of that being used to reduce debt overall.
And just Kevin I would -- just as a reminder also that we may not see that full level of proceeds as Paul mentioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to follow up you've got remaining assets in Brazil Argentina United Kingdom.
If I understand you correctly you're moving all of that into discontinued operations in the fiscal second quarter.
Maybe if you comment on what prospect of divestiture looks like there and remind us how large those businesses are in the aggregate.
Yes and so if you look at the business overall for us about 80% of the business fits on the continent in what we're selling today.
The bulk of the rest of it sits in the U.K.
And then the business in Ireland the business in Brazil and Argentina are all small.
Our next question will come from Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Paul I know most of your contracts in tonnage and hydrogen allow for pass-through of gas or electricity.
Is there -- are there any opportunities there to harvest certainly the release in gas and maybe some help in electricity? And why wouldn't we have seen more pronounced effect on the margin percentage? So Bob what you're saying is that on the drop in gas prices you're expecting to see a bigger increase in margin percentage on the on-site business on the tonnage.
So you have seen -- remember that gas prices have been down for a while now.
And so we haven't seen a tremendous difference.
If I look at my average gas price from quarter 1 of last year to quarter 1 of this year gas price is probably down maybe about 7% or 8%.
It's not down a huge amount for us.
So it's been down for a while.
And so I think -- and that play has already come through the margin walk for us.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask you about the growth path you've laid out Paul? At -- in one of the positive attributes of the gas industry it's more stability and steadiness yet.
It looks like the guidance implies something around a 20% or 22% lift in second half versus first half of the fiscal year.
Is -- do you think there's a great degree of risk there? Is there a historic precedent that gets you comfortable you can see that kind of elevation in the second half? Or how would you characterize the path this year compared to maybe other periods? Okay.
And so I think what we see happening from an economic standpoint is somewhat the reverse of what we saw at 2011.
If you go back to the comments which we made on the economy and what we saw in underlying sales growth in 2011 we saw underlying sales growth come out in the first half of the year 11% to 12%.
In the second half of the year we saw the underlying sales growth dip to -- I think it was 7% in quarter 3 4% in quarter 4.
So we saw a slowdown and most of that as we look at it came from the economic picture because we saw economy started to slow around the world.
We saw the U.S.
growth rates drop manufacturing wise.
We saw Asia started to come off.
We certainly saw electronics started to come off in our fourth quarter I think.
So we saw a number of things.
And we saw the European economies and start to go into a recession through the last half of 2011.
So what we're -- as we look at this we think 2012 from a growth standpoint in the first half of the year because of the carryover from 2011 it doesn't start with a lot of momentum behind it.
And the economic picture in the first half of our fiscal year we think is slow.
However as I said in my remarks that the policy in the United States we ought to be start talking as the election starts to become clear and more things turn towards how jobs are going to be created that should lift consumer confidence should lift the confidence of businesses to invest.
And so we see people start trying to increase production.
In Asia we think that they -- and they've taken steps to fight inflation.
We think those steps probably have had the right impact in China but we also think that China is going to turn to a more stimulative process -- policy.
In Europe quarter 2 is likely to trough.
So sequentially things ought to start be getting better.
We'll still be in a recessionary period and down on the comps year-on-year but sequentially we'll start -- we should start to see growth after quarter 2.
And so as far as the economy is concerned we think it's down in the second half.
So if you want to say risk yes there is risk in our economic scenario.
If you take a look at our products typically our product seasonally has a better second half than first half.
So in this year the impact of the second-half pickup which we normally see is also going to be added on to a better economy.
So that's why the growth is much stronger for here.
We also see a number of plants coming onstream in the second half.
You see that in the backup slide.
And we expect a pickup in LNG orders which we think starts to show in the fourth quarter profits in the -- on the equipment business trying to get better.
So those are some of the reasons.
There is risk on it.
Yes we have made a call on the future of the economy but we do think that as our future looks things are likely to get better.
Research Division</strong> And so Paul just to conclude there you would still expect global manufacturing up 2% 3% or 4% something like that? Yes if you take a look at the economy then we said we saw global manufacturing up 2% to 5% we think it's probably coming out close to the middle portion of that range right now for us.
The U.S.
probably goes -- if the U.S.
starts to get better as the fiscal is trying to indicate it might go to the higher end for the U.S.
Europe probably stays to the lower end of our previous forecast.
Our next question will come from David Manthey with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions.
First in terms of the equipment business could you talk about how volume sensitive that business is? And if you got backlog up 40-some percent this quarter why does profitability not improve until the fourth quarter? And then second question if you could specifically isolate the impact of higher maintenance cost on the tonnage segment EBIT margin this quarter that would be great.
And the last one was what? I missed that.
Research Division</strong> I'm trying to understand exactly what the impact of just the increased maintenance costs were on the tonnage segment EBIT.
Okay.
Yes.
I'll handle that.
I know it's probably $0.02 to $0.03 a share on the EBIT aspect of things all right? If you take a look at the equipment business end the issue here for us is -- on the backlog is the backlog includes LNG orders.
It includes the air separation orders.
As we consistently said on the LNG side that the profitably for that business is a lot better because we aren't selling a lot of purchase equipment along with the stuff we manufacture unlike we do in the air separation side.
So the LNG backlog is actually down for us.
And that's why as we look to the future we are expecting the LNG backlog to pick back up.
And when that happens the profitability in the equipment business will improve.
Next we'll hear from Mike Harrison with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> I was curious about your comment that you're seeing lower volumes in your U.S.
and Canada merchant business lower volumes to distributors.
Given that those distributor customers are typically serving the manufacturing market which according to all the work we've done suggests things should be pretty strong in the U.S.
How do you account for the weakness that you're seeing right now? And so for us what we see is that construction markets are still depressed as far as that.
And distributor markets tells a lot about construction markets.
So we haven't seen a lot of the big pickups in capital spending for us either which -- in the U.S.
Research Division</strong> And then I wanted to ask also about the tonnage business.
Historically that business had been more stable in terms of the quarter-to-quarter operating income in terms of dollars.
And here over the last 3 quarters we've seen a $40 million swing-up last quarter and back down this quarter.
Is this a new pattern of volatility that we're going to see kind of contract modifications swinging one way or the other or maintenance costs being concentrated in one quarter and not in another? Or do you think this pattern we've seen in the last 3 quarters is a little bit more unusual? I'm just kind of trying to get a little bit better sense of any kind of how to model it going forward? Okay Mike.
And that's for us we have taken a look at that.
So I'm going to break it into 2 pieces.
The contract mods there is never a pattern to them.
We had an unusual mods which occurred in the last quarter in quarter 4 which brought a lot of profit for us.
That is not going to happen typically in the business.
So I would not say that -- that was a one-time event for things.
The other thing which we had in this year is we have the mods to -- on the polyurethane customer which helped him survive a difficult time.
For those things that caused us some profit it's going to cost us a little bit ongoing but that also was a one-time item.
Now if you turn to does the business have a seasonal pattern? The answer to that is yes on the side of hydrogen unfortunately and not so much on the oxygen side.
But remember about 2/3 of the business is hydrogen for us.
And so what we see is the bonuses for us peak in quarter -- in our Q4 and the maintenance spending is always the lowest typically in our Q4.
And so that's always going to introduce more profit into Q4 for us typically than in the other quarters.
So -- but last quarter we had the impact of the mods which obviously helped us.
They didn't reoccur.
The maintenance increased from quarter 4 to quarter 1.
So that's why you see the large peak and then we also -- the large drop.
And also the mods to the polyurethane customer.
So quarter 1 was an unusually low quarter but quarter 4 was an usually high quarter last month.
So -- and you're just seeing that.
I don't think you're ever going to see swings like that without unusual one-time items happening like Mike.
Research Division</strong> And is maintenance spend typically highest in your fiscal fourth quarter then? No it's not.
It's typically -- if you look at that it depends upon when the turns are scheduled.
It could be anywhere in quarter 1 quarter 2 or Q3 depending upon how much is due at that particular plant at that particular time for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then the last question I had was related to the helium capacity that you're bringing on.
Has that been delayed? Or can you maybe update us on the timing of that new capacity in Wyoming? Okay.
And the capacity right now is -- and we are waiting for the crude supply to come from our customers.
It's being installed a gas processing facility.
We currently expect that to come onstream at the end of quarter 2.
And our next question will come from Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 questions.
First is there any sort of anything unusual on the real estate sale side that will skew free cash flow generation this year? No.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And secondly are you seeing any shift in competitor behavior in China that will help sort of make the comparisons easier on the next recovery? I don't think we're -- as far as China is concerned the market and the dynamics remain the same.
It's a competitive market and we think we are positioned well and have a good set of products chased in the on-site orders.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And lastly can you give an update on what you're seeing on your cement market customers in North America? Cement customers.
I'm going to pass that to Simon who will probably handle that in an update with you okay? Yes.
We'll follow up on that Laurence.
Thanks.
Next we'll hear from Mike Sison with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the operating margin improvement sequentially first quarter versus the fourth quarter of merchant can you give us a little bit more color on the operating performance? Did you cut costs? Were you just running the plants better? And is that 100 basis point improvement somewhat sustainable as we head into the rest of the year? The answer is yes.
It is sustainable.
And it didn't come from volume obviously as you see that sequentially.
And it's by principally -- and the plants going out and running well we also had towards the end of the quarter the argon sourcing improved for us with the LaPorte being onstream in the U.S.
And so that -- and that helped also of course.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just on tentative basis when you think about electronics here your fiscal first quarter was good.
You've seen a lot of other companies see further destocking or such in the December quarter.
Do you feel better as we head into the fiscal second and third that electronics could even pick up sequentially? Yes I think it would.
Yes and we believe electronics is going to pick up sequentially quarter 1 to quarter 2 and even more so in quarter 3 and quarter 4 Mike.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And last question in tonnage you've got 6% volume growth in the first quarter.
Does that number accelerate with the projects coming onstream? Or does that just sort of support that level as the year unfolds? It should actually get better as the year unfolds for us as far as for this year.
And our final question will come from Mark Gulley with Ticonderoga Securities.
Research Division</strong> Getting in under the wire a few questions on tonnage actually.
One is with respect to -- I want to go back to back -- I'm sorry financial side the debt pay down.
You said the split between share repurchases and debt pay down will be about 50-50.
With interest rates so low Paul why would you want to pay down any debt whatsoever? And the thing which we are going to manage Mark is we're going to manage to a debt rating for us.
And so as we look at our capital spending and everything like that and our cash flows we have a Eurobond which is coming due in the beginning of April.
And we're going to use the bit of proceeds to pay down the Eurobond for us.
And then if capital spending needs go up we will borrow more but we're managing toward -- right now to be a debt -- to be A rating.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my on-site question was this.
Given the very low natural gas cost in the U.S.
does that affect the economics of refinery of hydrogen enough that stimulates demand? Or is that just a small part of the cost that it's -- it does not really move the needle all that much? I'm talking about customers' economics now.
Yes.
And so it is certainly going to help crack spreads for them.
It certainly will help if they're going to export products out of the U.S.
into other countries for those things.
So it does help them in that way Mark.
As far as driving the price of gas down for us overall it's not going to have a big impact of that which -- to take gas from $3.50 to $3 its not going to do that.
Okay.
Thanks everyone.
Please go to our website to access a replay of this call beginning at 2:00 p.m.
today.
Thank you.
for joining us and have a great day.
And that does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Air Products and Chemicals second quarter earnings release conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Also this telephone conference presentation and the comments made on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
Air Products will be recording this teleconference and may publish all or a portion of the teleconference.
No other recording or redistribution of this telephone conference by any other party is permitted without the express written permission of Air Products.
Your participation indicates your agreement.
Beginning today's call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Moore you may begin.
Thank you Deanna.
Good morning and welcome to Air Products second quarter earnings teleconference.
This is Simon Moore.
Today our CFO Paul Huck and I will review our Q2 results and outlook for the remainder of 2012.
We issued our earnings release this morning.
It is available on our website along with the slides for this teleconference.
Please go to airproducts.com to access the materials.
Instructions for accessing the replay of this call beginning at 2 p.m.
Eastern Time are also available on our website.
Please turn to Slide 2.
As always today's teleconference will contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions.
Please review the information on these slides and at the end of today's earnings release explaining factors that may affect these expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Paul for a review of our financials.
Thanks Simon.
Good day everyone and thanks for joining us.
Please turn to Slide #3.
Before we get into this quarter's operating results I want to spend a few moments reviewing a few items impacting this quarter's numbers.
First as we announced last quarter we are in the process of divesting our European Homecare business and as a result we are now reporting this business in discontinued operations.
As a reminder European Homecare contributed $0.10 to our fiscal quarter 1.
If we adjust our previously provided guidance for moving Homecare to discontinued operations it would reduce quarter 2 by $0.09 and the full year by $0.30.
Specifically quarter 2 guidance adjusts to $1.28 to $1.34 and full year guidance adjust to $5.60 to $6.
The sale of our Continental European Homecare business has been approved by the European Commission and we expect to close next week.
Our quarter 3 results will reflect an after-tax gain in the range of EUR 105 million to EUR 130 million or approximately $140 million to $170 million from this transaction.
We continue to work towards completing the divestiture of the remaining European Homecare business located primarily in the U.K.
We also recorded a cost reduction charge of approximately $60 million after tax or $0.28 per share.
This charge represents the ongoing actions we are taking to improve our cost structure particularly in Europe.
It includes removing the stranded costs resulting from our decision to exit the Homecare business and the actions we are taking to rightsize our European cost structure in light of the challenging economic outlook.
This charge includes a severance cost for the elimination of about 600 positions primarily in Europe and the write-down of 2 small plants.
Most of the position elimination should be completed by the end of the fiscal year.
In quarter 4 the savings should offset the approximately $6 million of quarterly stranded costs generated by the Homecare divestiture.
When fully implemented we expect the cost reduction plan to provide $60 million of annual savings.
Third we recorded a tax gain of $58 million or $0.27 per share for a disputed tax item which was finally resolved.
This item dates back almost 20 years in Spain.
There is no cash impact.
And as you can see from a book basis this essentially offsets the impact of our cost reduction charge this quarter.
Excluding these items our adjusted non-GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations is $1.31 for the quarter.
As I mentioned the comparable range for our previous quarter 2 guidance is $1.28 to $1.34.
The comparable results for quarter 2 fiscal '11 were $1.33 and for quarter 1 fiscal '12 was $1.26.
Now let's turn to our operating results.
Please turn to Slide #4.
Overall the quarter was within our expectations.
However our volumes did not grow through the quarter as we had expected.
For the quarter sales of $2.3 billion were 2% lower versus prior year primarily due to lower energy pass-through and a stronger dollar.
Underlying sales increased 2% year-on-year with both volume and price contributing 1% each.
Higher tonnage volumes in both the refining and steel markets were partially offset by lower volumes in Merchant Gases and electronics.
Pricing gains were recorded broadly across our merchant segment.
Sequentially sales increased 1% with volumes up 2% and pricing contributing 1% partially offset by lower energy pass-through.
Simon will provide segment and geographic details later.
Operating income of $375 million decreased 6% from prior year.
The mix impact of volumes was the principal factor.
Unfavorable volumes in merchant and electronics were only partially offset by favorable volumes in tonnage and performance materials.
Also lower-margin air separation unit sales replaced higher-margin LNG heat exchanger sales in our Equipment and Energy segment.
Sequentially operating income was up 6% on higher performance materials and Tonnage Gases volumes.
Our operating margin declined to 16% down 60 basis points versus prior year.
Sequentially our margin improved 80 basis points.
For the quarter net income decreased 3% while diluted earnings per share decreased by 2%.
Our return on capital employed on an instantaneous or run rate basis is 12%.
On an annual basis return on capital employed is 12.6%.
Turning to Slide 5 for a review of the factors that affected the quarter's performance in terms of earnings per share.
Our adjusted continuing operations earnings per share of $1.31 decreased by $0.02 versus last year.
Lower volumes increased earnings per share by $0.09 year-on-year.
Pricing energy and raw materials taken together increased earnings per share by $0.02 and costs were $0.01 unfavorable.
Currency translation and foreign exchange taken together were neutral.
Equity affiliate income was $0.01 higher primarily due to strong volumes from our Mexican affiliate.
Fewer shares outstanding contributed $0.02.
And finally excluding the Spanish tax gain our effective tax rate of 24.5% contributed $0.02.
All other factors added $0.01.
For fiscal '12 we expect the tax rate to be between 24% and 25% a percentage point lower than our previous guidance.
Now I'll turn the call over to Simon to review our business segment results.
Simon? Thanks Paul.
Please turn to Slide 6 Merchant Gases.
Merchant Gases sales of $884 million were down 3% versus prior year.
Underlying sales were down 1% with positive pricing offsetting most of the impact of lower volumes.
Currency was 2% unfavorable.
Sales were flat sequentially with positive pricing offsetting lower volumes.
Merchant Gases operating income of $153 million was down 8% versus prior year and also down 8% sequentially.
Segment operating margin of 17.3% was down 80 basis points compared to last year and down 140 basis points sequentially.
Versus last year operating income declined on lower volumes across most of the businesses.
Pricing and our operating cost performance were both positive but did not overcome the volume decline.
The full quarter effect of our new LaPorte ASU improved argon production and distribution costs.
Versus prior quarter pricing was also positive but higher costs and the impact of lower volumes reduced operating income.
Let me now provide a few additional comments by region.
Please turn to Slide 7.
In U.S./Canada sales were flat with higher pricing offsetting reduced volumes.
Volumes were down 2% on weakness in hospitals electronics and liquid hydrogen.
U.S./Canada LOX/LIN volumes were flat.
We report Mexico as an equity affiliate so neither the volumes nor sales are included here.
If we included Mexico with U.S./Canada our overall North America LOX/LIN volumes would be up 6% on very strong oil and gas injection volumes in Mexico.
Helium sourcing challenges continue.
We now don't expect our new U.S.
helium facility to be onstream this fiscal year as our feedstock supplier continues to have challenges with their facility.
Pricing was 2% positive with improvement across the product lines as we took actions to recover higher costs.
Contract signings rebounded to the strong levels we saw in the second half of 2011 and we expect to begin to see the positive volume impact of these 2011 signings next quarter.
LOX/LIN capacity utilization remains in the low 70s.
In Europe sales were down 5% versus last year primarily due to currency with underlying sales down 1%.
Volumes were down 2% on weak end market demand in both liquid/bulk and packaged gases.
In addition helium volumes were down on supply availability.
Pricing was positive in both liquid/bulk and packaged gases.
LOX/LIN plant loadings remain in the low 80s and new contract signings continue ahead of target.
In Asia sales were up 1% versus last year with underlying sales flat.
Overall volumes were down 1%.
LOX/LIN volumes excluding conversions were flat with slower overall demand and a more modest than typical manufacturing rebound post-Lunar New Year.
Packaged gas volumes increased on the continued success of our microbulk product line.
Helium volumes were lower as product availability limited sales.
Pricing was up 1%.
Helium pricing was positive but we saw lower liquid argon pricing due to the prior year price premiums in the China spot market.
Plant loadings were in the high 70s.
New contract signings were the strongest ever and align well with the new capacity that will come onstream for the rest of the year.
We announced an exciting win in China this quarter.
We will supply our integrated oxy-fuel solution to Yongxin Glassware in China.
We will install a VSA non-cryogenic oxygen production unit an automatic flow control skid and our Cleanfire burners to improve productivity and reduce emissions from their glass production.
We've installed over 1 500 Cleanfire burners around the world.
Please turn to Slide 8 Tonnage Gases.
Tonnage Gases sales of $784 million were down 2% versus last year driven primarily by an 8% impact from lower energy pass-through.
Volumes were up 7% on existing asset loading and new projects.
Sequentially sales were down 3% also primarily driven by a 6% impact from lower energy pass-through.
Volumes were up 3%.
Operating income of $125 million was up 4% versus prior year on the higher volumes was up 13% sequentially on higher volumes bonus timing and less impact from the polyurethane intermediates contract modification discussed previously.
Operating margin of 16% improved 90 basis points versus prior year and 220 basis points sequentially on the higher operating income and lower energy pass-through.
We continue to win important deals in key growth markets including large on-site oxygen projects for coal gasification in China.
Last month we announced a contract to supply oxygen to Xinlianxin's coal gasification unit in Henan China.
We will build an ASU to supply 2 000 tons per day of oxygen to Xinlianxin and over 250 tons a day of liquid oxygen nitrogen and argon for the region's growing Merchant Gases market.
With this award we are currently executing 4 different projects to supply oxygen for coal gasification in China.
In total this represents almost 25 000 tons per day of oxygen capacity.
And we expect to announce additional oxygen and hydrogen deals through the rest of 2012.
Please turn to Slide 9 Electronics and Performance Materials.
Segment sales of $567 million were down 2% compared to last year on 2% lower volumes primarily driven by softer electronics demand.
Sequentially sales were up 6% primarily driven by stronger performance materials demand.
Electronics sales were down 4% compared to last year on slower end market demand and down 2% sequentially on the expected seasonality.
Electronic materials sales were down versus last year as would be expected of a lower semiconductor production while tonnage and equipment were higher as we see the industry leaders continuing to invest in new capacity.
The semiconductor industry was down versus prior year in the first half but as we said last quarter we expect a stronger second half of 2012.
Electronics materials pricing was stable.
Performance materials sales increased 2% versus last year on stronger volumes and price.
Sequentially sales were up 17% on volume improvement as we saw the typical seasonal recovery plus improvement in key end markets across the regions.
Operating income of $86 million was down 7% versus prior year and operating margin was down 80 basis points primarily on lower volumes and higher raw material costs in electronics.
Sequentially operating income was up 9% and operating margin was up 50 basis points to 15.1% primarily due to higher volumes.
In electronics we announced the acquisition of all of DuPont's interest in our DuPont Air Products NanoMaterials 50-50 joint venture.
DA Nano manufactures chemical mechanical planarization slurries used in the semiconductor industry.
This acquisition helps broaden our strategy of delivering a portfolio of differentiated offerings to our customers.
The deal closed on April 2 and we expect to book an after-tax gain of approximately $45 million to $55 million in Q3.
Now please turn to Slide 10 Equipment and Energy.
Sales of $110 million were down 3% versus prior year on lower project activity.
Sequentially sales were up 24% on higher project activity.
Operating income of $10 million was down 56% versus prior year primarily due to lower LNG activity but up 34% sequentially primarily due to higher LNG activity.
Backlog is up 69% over last year and we believe we will announce more orders in 2012.
As we said last quarter LNG bidding activity remains strong and we were pleased to announce an agreement to provide technology and 2 LNG heat exchangers to JKC joint venture for their Ichthys project in Darwin Australia.
These exchanges will produce 8.4 million tons per year of LNG from the Browse Basin offshore Western Australia.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Paul.
Thanks Simon.
Please turn to Slide 11.
Now let me give you a brief summary of our outlook.
As we said earlier in the year we expected that the first half of our fiscal year would be slower in the U.S.
and Asia and that Europe would be in a recession.
We also expected that the second half of our fiscal year will be much stronger as economic activity picked up in both the U.S.
and Asia.
While we still expect improvement in the second half our volume growth in the first half has been slower than we anticipated.
In the U.S.
volumes have been lower than expected as new customers have been slow to ramp up.
Europe volumes have been close to expectations.
Asia volumes have lagged the most with declines year-on-year in both China and electronics.
Looking forward we expect our U.S.
volumes to grow faster in the second half of our fiscal year.
For Europe our emphasis is on cost reduction and price improvement because we do not foresee much volume growth.
Finally we expect Asia volumes to improve in our second half although at a slower rate and from a lower base than originally anticipated.
On the positive side our project development and contract signings continue to be very strong.
We expect our capital expenditures to be at the high end of our previously stated $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion range.
We continue to win large oxygen projects for coal gasification in China.
Our new project wins have increased our project backlog to $2.8 billion securing future profitable growth.
However given our lower volume starting point coming out of quarter 2 and a lack of strong momentum in March we are lowering our guidance.
We expect our earnings per share to be between $5.47 and $5.60 for the fiscal year up 2% to 4% versus last year.
As a reminder our previously communicated guidance included $0.30 for Homecare.
The principal reason for the decline in guidance is due to weaker demand in Merchant Gases and electronics.
Both our range for the next quarter and the full year guidance exclude the gains we expect to book on the closing of the Linde Homecare transaction and our portion of the DuPont Air Products NanoMaterials venture referred to earlier.
As we previously told you we would be repurchasing about $300 million of shares this year.
As you can see on our cash flow statement we did repurchase $53 million in quarter 2.
Given our success in winning new business which will drive our capital spending to the high end of our range we will likely not be repurchasing more shares this year.
Now let's turn to our third quarter outlook.
Our guidance for quarter 3 is for earnings per share of $1.40 to $1.45 based on the following factors: On the positive side we expect to see Asia Merchant Gases post strong gains this quarter as volumes start to rebound from the lower-than-anticipated level in the first half of the year.
Electronics should start to see and Performance Materials should continue to see normal seasonal volume improvements in their markets.
We should begin to see the early positive impact of the restructuring program focused on removing the stranded costs from the Homecare divestiture and in appropriately sizing our Europe business for the economic environment.
Partially offsetting this sequential improvement we expect that lower bonuses in our tonnage business as many of our annual operating bonuses occur in the second quarter.
Although our Equipment and Energy bidding activity remains strong our results will be lower in quarter 3 due to project timing.
Now let me wrap up.
We have taken a number of significant actions in 2012 that we are confident will deliver better performance in 2013 and beyond.
We took actions to improve our portfolio and business mix by exiting our Homecare business.
We are implementing cost reductions across Europe to remove the stranded costs of our Homecare operation and also reduce the cost of conducting our merchant European operations.
We won a number of new orders under long-term take-or-pay agreements that expands our tonnage presence in China and add to our leading global hydrogen position.
We continue to improve our electronics business even as industry millions of square inches processed was down significantly in this quarter and year.
We have improved margins one new tonnage business and taken full control of the DA Nano joint venture we had with DuPont.
We are winning LNG orders which will expand equipment profits in 2013.
2012 has certainly offered its challenges.
And while not seen in our current results we are confident the actions we are taking continue to position us to meet our 2015 goals.
Thank you and now I'll turn the call over to Deanna to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll hear first from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
This is John Hirt standing in for P.J.
today.
In electronics overall sales and volumes were up about 6% sequentially but core electronic sales were down about 2% and I guess about 4% year-over-year.
Can you talk about why that was weak and maybe give some color on how you see that playing out for the rest of the year? Sure we can.
If we just take a look at our electronics business we have -- what we have seen is we have seen a pretty sharp decrease in the first half of this year in millions of square inches processed one of the things which I talked to.
We think that the current stats which the industry published has that measured down 13% year-over-year.
If we just look at our base electronic sales for the whole -- for that whole time period in that first half we're about flat.
So we have -- and weathered this storm in the industry well.
We still think that the industry for the full year is going to be down year-over-year.
But sequentially we are going to start to see improvements in their production statistics.
So we would expect to start to see our electronics business turn positive year-over-year in sales such that for the rest of the year we -- that we would have a mid-single-digit increase in sales probably in just the electronics portion of Electronics and Performance Materials.
And John maybe just to add as Paul mentioned we were flat with the industry reports being down.
And again this goes to what we've talked about our strength with the industry leaders.
If you look at what Intel talked about they were a little bit better than they expected to be saw a better improvement next quarter.
TSMC sales were up and Samsung continues to do well and look to invest.
In fact they're working on their major fab investment in China.
So as we've talked about we're the leading supplier to the leaders in the industry.
They continue to do better than the industry which help support our sales and makes us less cyclical.
Okay.
And then maybe just a quick follow-up.
If you had to put I guess the sources of your revised full year EPS guidance into regional buckets how much of that guidance reduction would you attribute to Europe and maybe how much would you contribute to other regions? I -- so if I was putting it in region realize that I don't do regional profitability.
And so if I was looking at the impact it would be some in Europe in our Merchant Gas area.
And if you look at the guidance roughly -- and so if we went to the midpoint -- so let's just do some math for you.
If you went to the midpoint to the $5.60 to the $6 that will be $5.80.
If you go to the midpoint to the $5.47 to $5.60 that's roughly $5.55 so it's down $0.25.
If I look at that the largest area in which we have seen an impact has been electronics for us.
And though -- even though as I've said we're going to have a gain in profits in this year in electronics we were actually expecting more because we thought that the industry production would be higher.
The MSI index which we talked about was going to be up some -- about 5% or so was our original prediction.
We actually think it's probably going to be down about 10%.
But we're going to increase our profits there but not as much.
So a large portion of that decrease really has to do with electronics.
The next large area is the merchant area which has some in -- and some decline in the U.S.
some -- not decline year-over-year but some shortfall in the U.S.
because of volume some shortfall in Europe principally because of price and then shortfall in Asia on volume.
If you look at other things we have taxes which are favorable for us and all the other businesses one month together are probably favorable by a small amount for us overall.
We'll hear next from Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Your volume in tonnage was up 7% and your operating income was up 4%.
Why didn't operating income grow faster than volume in tonnage? Yes.
And so if we take a look at that on the tonnage area we did have some new plants come onstream in this quarter which drove the volumes up a little bit for things.
We saw steel operating rates improve a little bit in this quarter which drove us up.
The other thing which we saw is we did see price declines in natural gas as you see which are substantial.
So our operating efficiencies the portion which Air Products puts in its pocket because we improved the plant as time goes on they don't have the same value for that.
So that -- so those operating efficiencies held down some of the profit gain because it wasn't as large.
We had sales decrease and also a little profit decrease from that.
So as you see you see the large impact of natural gas year-over-year in the hydrogen area.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly what was depreciation and amortization for the second quarter of this year and for the first quarter? Okay let me get it.
So I've got to look at the depreciation and amortization here for the second quarter.
I think I got the year-to-date numbers here Jeff.
Jeff if we could and have a follow-up conversation rather than here.
I don't have those numbers directly in front of me.
I only have the year-to-date.
But Simon and Ken can walk you through those things.
I know that you've had questions before on that number.
One of the things that's happening because of the impact of the capital leases our depreciation and amortization really aren't growing.
I know for a year-to-date basis we're down about $8 million in D&amp;A.
A good portion of that being currency for us just lowering that having a stronger dollar.
And then the other -- and then -- but if I looked at replacements and I looked at additions to D&amp;A and they pretty much offset one another.
So things which -- and not replacements but D&amp;A which just actually went off the scale.
And the things which were fully depreciated or retired and then the new -- and they're about the same for the quarter.
And the reason why is that we aren't getting the capital leases they don't go through depreciation and that represents about $200 million $300 million of our CapEx so a fairly substantial large portion of our growth CapEx.
And then we're also signing contracts for a longer period.
If I go back 15 and 20 years or so when these -- when our original plants were put on depreciation we pretty much had 15-year contracts.
Now a lot of the hydrogen business a lot of the gasification business are there signing up the 20-year contracts for these so it's just a longer period over which the plants get depreciated.
We'll take our next question from David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Jim Sheehan sitting in for Dave.
Just wondering if you will become any more bullish on construction end market demand for performance materials? As far as that is concerned within the U.S.
I still remain a skeptic on the residential construction which gets into insulation and things like that which we sell things in.
I think a bigger bull is in the automotive area for us and the construction for nonresidential for us and seeing that for the coatings aspect of things.
So we are more of a bull there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just with respect to the remaining Homecare assets do you have any further updates on timing for those? So yes and we would expect them to -- and we would expect to complete a sale before March of 2013 hopefully before that.
We have buyers who we are currently talking to.
We're taking them through a process of taking a detailed -- a look at the business trying to prepare them to give us bids.
And so that's what we'll probably spend the next couple of months doing.
And I'll have more to say about that in July as far as the timing is concerned to see how those bids go.
We'll take our next question from Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Brian Maguire on for Bob today.
I was hoping to get a little bit more color on the weakness in volumes in the U.S.
and Canada.
Looked like the volume decline accelerated to down 2% from down 1% in the first quarter.
It's a little bit of a contrast to some of the other companies we're hearing where their U.S.
business is doing fairly well and actually showing some signs of improvement.
So I know you kind of mentioned some issues with signing new customers up.
Is it a matter of not having enough salespeople or not having the tenure of the salespeople about right or just some hesitancy on your clients' part? Or how would you kind of attribute the accelerating decline there? Simon why don't you take that? Brian good question.
A couple of points there.
And again we just wanted to make the point that since we don't consolidate our Mexico results our LOX/LIN volumes would've been up 6% year-on-year if we included that on a North America basis so that's one factor.
Let me just talk about a couple of things that did hold down the growth there.
As you remember we reported very strong contract signings in the third and fourth quarter of last year so our second half.
It takes a while for those customer volumes to come onstream and start to show up in our sales.
And as Paul mentioned that's been happening a little bit more slowly than we expected.
So still a very strong leading indicator and we expect to see that over future quarters.
Again we signed -- we were back to the very high levels of contract signings this quarter which bodes very well for the future.
Another factor was helium supply.
As I mentioned we now don't expect our new helium plant to be onstream this fiscal year.
That's unfortunate because we certainly could have sold more helium if we had that product available.
Our plant is ready and we're awaiting feedstock from our supplier.
So again I think in the long term the signs are positive with new contract signings but in the near term we were held back by lower signings from earlier last year and helium availability.
Research Division</strong> Okay that helps.
And then on the $60 million of annualized cost savings is the bulk of that in the merchant segment because that's where Homecare was or will there be some in the other segments? And what would be the timing in 2013 when you'd expect to kind of fully realize that on a run rate basis? Okay yes.
And the bulk of the savings will come in the merchant area.
The -- where the rule of the stranded cost will help -- will also help impact the other segments but principally the savings are principally targeted in the merchant area for that.
As we enter 2013 we are going to have the bulk of this -- of the people out the door and the other actions which we need to take to lower costs done by the end of the year.
And so I would say we're going to have almost all of that as savings in 2013.
Research Division</strong> You'd say between that and the use of the proceeds from the sale which you could use to either pay down debt or not take out -- not take on debt that you otherwise would've taken on.
That combination will still make the 2013 EPS kind of neutral from a divestiture or the reclassification? Yes.
If we take and we look at the cost reduction in total and the paydown in debt it will actually -- it will come and it should improve our earnings overall with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one housekeeping thing.
What's the right first quarter EPS number for STUs to get to the new $5.47 to $5.60 number? $1.26.
We'll hear next from Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess first on the CapEx backlog.
I mean you were far enough into the year.
Do you have a sense for how much of a tailwind you'll have next year just from on-site projects coming onstream? Yes.
If we look at projects which will come onstream next year and I just estimate that it's around $0.35 for 2013 over 2012 and that could still grow a little bit.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then given the ramp in your capital spending it seems reasonable to assume that 2014 will be higher than 2013.
Is that fair? It should be yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And how are you thinking about merchant margins like where you can get them to over the next couple of years? So if you look a little bit farther out I mean what do you need to see to see margins inch up again? Yes.
And so our 2015 goals with regard to margins stay intact Laurence so we still think that -- and we are trying to get the merchant margins to the 21% to 24% range which we talked about that.
And we realized that that's a lot of improvement as people look at the margin today.
However we've got the load we have plants to load in the U.S.
we got plants to load in Asia.
That comes at a -- the incremental margin in those areas is about 35%.
The bulk of our unloading capacity sits in merchant for us as we look at it so we got good things there.
And we got improvements to make in Europe.
We got the cost reduction which will come in and will help in this year and next.
And we also have in Europe programs to get -- to continue to get our prices up.
That's not going -- as I said before it's not going to be a quick program but it's going to be over a number of years for us to get our prices higher there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly this natural gas efficiency issue in hydrogen has been coming up more frequently.
Do you have a rough rule of thumb for if there's a $1 per million BTU swing in natural gas prices? I mean what that means for your earnings? For us it really depends upon the contract and the customer at that point in time and the plants in which we're operating.
A thing which will help us with this whole thing is by us being able to operate our most efficient plants on the -- as soon as we get the pipeline connector put together so that will take some of this out of it because we currently have 2 systems.
When we combine them as one we can always operate the most efficient plant as far as savings is concerned.
And so -- and that's a benefit which we have.
The rules of thumb which we have they always break down whenever I go into the details so I don't want to give you one because I have to always look at all the individual plants ourselves Laurence.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well maybe to come at it from another angle if I may.
If -- does this imply that there's a further headwind to show up in the back half of the year because of contracts rolling over? Or are we now through this? No no no.
It doesn't have anything to actually do with contracts rolling over because we passed this -- we passed the price increases through based upon the cost that we pay for the gas and the month in which we supply it.
So we are matched perfectly here.
It just says that if I save money if I make my plant more efficient and improve the heat rate of the reformer so that I don't have to put as much gas through to make the hydrogen I get a savings for that the way I bill the customer because I take the efficiency risk.
And so it's not a huge amount on these things -- for these things but it is -- but when gas moves and you got gas basically at $4 in the prior year and gas below $3 in this year and about $2.50 or so you're going to see some movement in profit because you don't save as much money when you do that and so that's the factor there.
I mean you're talking about the difference between the 7% volume growth and 4% operating income growth here so it's not a huge factor for that.
And there's a few other things that are in there but that was the bigger factor.
We'll hear next from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
This is Chris Perella on for Kevin.
Just wanted to follow up on the timing of the tonnage bonuses and the outlook for next quarter.
And also what the growth trends you see in the tonnage business as that volume ramps up.
Yes.
And so for -- in this area what happens is that we earn a bonus based upon our reliability and our supply so we -- and so that occurs across the year.
So if your contract started on the 1st of February we earn that bonus on the 31st of January.
We don't accrue it throughout the year stuff like that.
We book it in the month which we'd earn it so that will be something which -- in which would be booked in January.
We have more contracts which have their anniversary date in the first calendar quarter than in any other.
They occur in all quarters so we earn bonuses every month.
It just happens to when the anniversary date of those contracts happen and so we have that and that produces some of the volatility from quarter-to-quarter.
It does not produce volatility much from year-to-year.
We have consistently grown bonuses as our reliability is very good in this business.
And as we continue to add to this business those bonuses are going to grow but it doesn't produce volatility really from year to year.
It does put some volatility in the year for us.
As we look at growth for things the largest plant which we have coming onstream well it's already onstream.
Towards the end of the second quarter was our hydrogen plant Luling so we'll see the impact of that.
The other major onstreams really occur for us in 2013.
So as far as growth is concerned we would expect to see good growth in our tonnage business.
A lot of this depends upon gas prices and power prices as to what gets passed through.
But long term as we look at volume growth in this business we think our volumes in this business are going to grow in the low double-digits.
Okay.
In the longer term? Yes that's right.
But as we look out at 2013 2014 2015 we think we're set up to grow at that rate in this business.
All right.
And then as a follow-up in Merchant Gases in North America.
With the low utilization rate on the assets and the I guess the slow pickup not in customer signings but those customers actually coming online is there any restructuring to do to rightsize that business? No.
We'll take our next question from Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned in your comments that Asian volumes did not come up the way that you would expect it post-Chinese New Year.
And I'm wondering if you could just sort of contextualize what you're hearing from your customers about that? And then other companies and other industries have mentioned that they saw sequential improvement in Asian volumes throughout the quarter and then so far into April so maybe you could comment on that as well.
Yes.
And so if I take a look at Asia certainly March was better than February and January with those things.
And so -- and April looks so far to be pretty good and we'll see what actually comes up.
But the point being is that we didn't get to the point which we would've expected to get to to start the third quarter for things.
So it was a relative disappointment for us.
Certainly our March volumes were better than the volumes we saw in February.
Research Division</strong> And was it just sort of -- what caused that delay? Anything specific from your customers or things we should be looking out for or just was it sort of general malaise that we saw sort of everywhere? Yes.
And so I think everyone is looking and a lot of this is China.
For us some of this is electronics volumes but a lot of this is China when you look at what is happening.
And I think everyone has made comments on China being slow.
The official stats are higher than what people are observing right now.
So the official stats on manufacturing and stuff like that look high.
It's not what everyone's seeing in their volumes.
We'll hear next from Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Paul question on 2015 by 2015.
You reiterated your confidence in hitting those targets but you've lost the year and certainly I would imagine that fiscal '12 has turned out a lot poorer than you thought back in June of last year.
So what gives you the confidence that in this reduced time frame you can still hit those goals? Is it better-than-expected wins on the tonnage side of the business or other factors that continue to give you confidence? And John you're right.
2012 it has not been according to the plan that we have so that's the thing.
So the confidence which we have as we look at this is that our capital spending which is going to drive our growth and give us the plants in the tonnage area to serve our customers with has gone along according to our plans.
We've had some acquisitions in this year so we're starting to fill that pipeline also which was in there.
And so we are behind in both areas namely merchant and electronics in this year as I talked of that.
We can recapture that and we can load those plants because we still have the same amount of capital going into the businesses.
It's just going to take stronger growth.
Electronics it does go up and down as far as growth is concerned.
So at some point between now and 2015 we'll probably see some very strong quarters as far as growth is concerned.
In the merchant area we're putting a lot of emphasis on the U.S.
a lot of emphasis on Asia on getting and loading up and loading our plants there.
And I think you'll start to see some improvements in quarter 3 and quarter 4 there.
We think we can do some things to solve the problems on helium which Simon talked about a little bit between now and 2015 to get us more product which will help us.
So I think a lot of the things which have held back the growth are things which -- in which we can address.
And of course obviously the cost always sits within the things which we need to do and we're making progress there too.
LLLP Research Division</strong> A follow-up on merchant.
Back when you had 20% merchant operating margins what would that margin have been pro forma for not having health care? And then also Simon if you could just tell us you told us what LOX/LIN volumes would be pro forma Mexico.
What would your North American operating rate be in merchant if you included Mexico? Yes.
So as far as the -- what happens in the merchant margins they have probably -- we are probably down a few tenths depending upon the individual quarter it's anywhere from 2/10 to 3/10 to maybe 4/10 -- 2/10 to 4/10 of an impact there.
It's not -- it isn't going to be huge on that.
Doesn't change our view of where we need to go.
Simon as far as operating rates.
Yes.
And certainly operating rates will be higher in Mexico as we have that growth but certainly there would still be a lot of opportunity to load up the assets in U.S.
and Canada.
The opportunity stays the same because you're not going to move -- you're not going to change the direction of the products there.
We'll take our next question from Mike Sison with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of getting your margins back up in merchant if I did the math I guess the cost-saving efforts that you're undergoing should probably get you back to that 19% 20% range I suppose and then the loadings and maybe new wins over the next couple of years gets you to your goal in '15.
Is that how the math works? You're right.
The cost savings in Europe obviously are one thing.
Now the other thing is we continue to drive costs across every region so we're looking for cost savings in Asia and the U.S.
But here we have a onetime -- we're actually changing the size of the business and the structure of the business there so -- and that's why the charge.
But we're always going to be looking for cost savings on things.
And then loading loading is important for us.
Improving the price in Europe is also important for us too Mike.
So it should get us there right the 21% to 24%.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just for my understanding are Europe margins significantly lower than what you're seeing now and that's where the big sort of lever will be over the next couple of quarters once you get the cost savings through? The margins right now the margin in this quarter was 17.3%.
We aren't very happy with that margin obviously.
That's the lowest margin we've seen in a long time in the business.
We intend to get that -- to move that better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question.
When you think about electronics as you head into '13 and '14 what would you need to see sort of overall to start to see volume growth return to the levels that you need to hit your 2015 plans? And we think the industry should be growing for us somewhere in the high single-digits so somewhere between 8% and 10% let's say or so for electronics growth because the gases into that are going to grow faster they always have.
We'll hear next from John McNulty with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Abhi Rajendran calling in for John.
Quick question on M&amp;A.
Could you talk a little bit about the health of your M&amp;A pipeline? And now that NanoMaterials is closed are there opportunities for further consolidation on some of your JV -- other JVs? Well if you take a look at our JVs we obviously have always said we want to buy them.
We don't have anything active going with any of them right now on those things.
It depends upon the partner for us on those things.
But they typically occur very quickly so it's not going to be something which is going to be subject to a long negotiation and bid process.
The ones which I've been involved with since I've been here things like Korea and Taiwan Malaysia and stuff like that they all have occurred very quickly for us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then one just quick follow-up.
On the photovoltaics market do you have any color on that area in terms of what you're seeing by way of utilization rates or potential excess capacity out there in the market? The market is very slow right now on PV.
What they had was a lot of incentives which were in there.
The governments have taken back a lot of those incentives because they couldn't afford them.
And so there is excess capacity to make PV panels.
And Abhi just a reminder PV is about 5% of our electronics sales.
We'll hear next from Edward Yang with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Paul you mentioned the slowness in China and perhaps the macro there -- data there understates the micro weakness.
Given the similar softness you see there are you hearing from any customers rethinking some of the projects in the backlog? No no we are not.
A lot of the projects in the backlog really get around producing feedstocks which are needed to generate power produce chemicals replace imports of LNG and stuff like that.
So I would be surprised to actually see anybody back off there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I might have missed this but did you provide a regional breakdown for volume trends in tonnage and what were they in North America Europe and Asia? We did not.
We typically -- we try to take a look at that business in total.
Research Division</strong> Would the -- is it fair to say that European tonnage volumes would be down year-over-year? And if they were are there any customers that are nearing take-or-pay provisions or below take-or-pay? For us in Europe the -- our business is principally -- a lot of it is hydrogen also in Rotterdam and those customers are not anywhere near their take-or-pay so we don't have any concerns there.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And just finally on electronics.
Could you just educate me on what's happening on the semi side? I mean that's where the biggest variance was to your change in outlook.
It sounds like that's -- the semiconductor side is doing weaker than the consumer electronics side.
Why was MSI down so much for example? And so I think it just had to do with a lot of pullback related to things like what happened in Japan what happened in Thailand as far as flooding is concerned so people were trying to be cautious watch their inventories.
Inventories are not high in the semi space.
And so as we look at this we think we are poised to take off and have a very good year.
Last year was unusual.
Last year in quarter 1 and quarter 2 they kind of built through the cycle because of the recovery which occurred in the business.
And so in this year we saw more of a normal cycle and so we didn't see the build-through and so we saw the drops year-on-year.
But we do think that and that we're poised here to see a return here in quarter 3 and quarter 4.
And our final question today comes from Mark Gulley with Gulley and Associates.
I want to follow up on merchant if I could.
Paul you had talked about really beefing up the sales force more feet on the street those kinds of things with respect to merchant.
Are you happy with your progress there? Or do you think there's more resources you have to commit to make that happen? I think we have done well as far as putting the people or the feet on the street in the right spots.
I'm happy with the signings which we've had.
And the thing which I said is that we have seen the loading of the new business which we signed be a lot slower than what we typically would expect to see.
I can't tell you why Mark yet.
We don't really know.
You've got to look at that on a customer-by-customer basis.
The only thing which I could attribute it to in general is that within the U.S.
manufacturers are still very very -- they -- and cautious around trying to overbuild or build inventory and stuff like that so people are just being cautious about things.
And so I think we still have that which is occurring with our customers and so typically we would see a customer go and then ramp his plant very quickly as he put an addition on it or he made a change.
We aren't seeing those plants load as quick.
And a housekeeping thing.
You have a gain on the purchase of DuPont's interest in the Nano joint venture.
Can you help me understand how you have a gain on purchase? Yes it's the way the accounting works.
And so what happens is is you write your existing asset your existing investment up to market.
So whatever I paid to DuPont it used to be I could take the 50% which I held and keep it at historic costs now I write that up to market.
And so in that write-up to market I get a gain and I run it through the income statement.
I just don't make an entry to equity.
And that will conclude our question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Moore and Mr.
Huck I will turn the call back over to you for any closing or final remarks.
Okay thanks Deanna.
Thanks everybody.
Please go to our website to access a replay of this call beginning at 2 p.m.
today.
Thank you for joining us and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Air Products and Chemicals Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also this telephone conference presentation and the comments made on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
Air Products will be recording this teleconference and may publish all or a portion of the teleconference.
No other recording or redistribution of this telephone conference by any other party are permitted without express written permission of Air Products.
Your participation indicates your agreement.
[Operator Instructions] Beginning today's call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Moore you may begin.
Thank you Lea.
Good morning and welcome to Air Products' third quarter earnings teleconference.
This is Simon Moore.
Today our CFO Paul Huck and I will review our Q3 results and outlook for the remainder of 2012.
We issued our earnings release this morning.
It is available on our website along with the slides for this teleconference.
Please go to airproducts.com to access the materials.
Instructions for accessing the replay of this call beginning at 2 p.m.
Eastern Time are also available on our website.
Please turn to Slide 2.
As always today's teleconference will contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions.
Please review the information on these slides and at the end of today's earnings release explaining factors that may affect these expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Paul for a review of our financials.
Thanks Simon.
Good day everyone and thanks for joining us.
Please turn to Slide #3.
Before we get into the quarter's operating results I want to spend a few moments reviewing a few key items affecting this quarter's numbers.
First the sale of our Continental European Homecare business closed and included in our quarter 3 discontinued operations results is an after-tax gain of $150 million or $0.70 per share.
Regarding the remaining European Homecare business located in the U.K.
and Ireland we have received bids from several interested parties and we expect to close on the sale of the remaining business before the end of calendar 2012.
Quarter 3 results include an after-tax charge of $30 million or $0.14 per share in discontinuing operations to adjust the book value of the remaining Homecare business to its estimated net realizable value.
As we mentioned on last quarter's call we closed on the acquisition of the remaining 50% of our DA NanoMaterials joint venture at the beginning of April.
Included in this quarter's results is a $55 million or $0.25 per share after-tax gain.
This represents the gain on our previously held 50% ownership.
This acquisition supports our strategy of delivering a portfolio of differentiated offerings to our semiconductor customers.
Excluding these items our adjusted non-GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations is $1.41 for the quarter within our $1.40 to $1.45 guidance range.
Good performance given the weaker economy and unfavorable currency impacts driven by a stronger dollar.
To help you with the quarterly comparisons Slide #14 in the appendix shows earnings per share from continuing operations x disclosed items for the past 2 years.
We are on track with our cost reduction plans and in fact saw about $4 million of benefit in this past quarter.
As we said last quarter most of the actions should be completed by the end of our fiscal year.
In quarter 4 the savings should more than offset the approximately $6 million of quarterly stranded costs generated by the Homecare divestiture.
When fully implemented in 2013 we expect the cost-reduction plan to provide $60 million of annual savings.
Now let's turn to our operating results.
Please turn to Slide #4.
Overall results were within our expectations.
However weaker economic growth prevented our volumes from growing as much as we had forecast and we had headwinds from the stronger dollar.
While our forecast for stronger demand in the second half of fiscal year 2012 did not come true we are pleased that our strong operating and cost performance drove improved margins broadly.
The European recession continues and conditions worsened this quarter.
Growth in China has slowed and the seasonal rebound in electronics and other industries has been weaker than expected.
For the quarter sales of $2.3 billion were 5% lower versus prior year primarily due to lower energy pass-through and a stronger dollar particularly against the euro.
Underlying sales increased 1% year-on-year primarily due to higher pricing in Merchant Gases.
Higher Tonnage Gases volumes and higher Equipment segment sales were offset by lower volumes in both Merchant Gases and Electronics.
Sequentially overall sales were unchanged.
Underlying sales increased 1% on higher volumes in our Tonnage Gases and Electronics and Performance Materials segments offset by lower equipment sales and the DA NanoMaterials acquisition contributed 1%.
Simon will provide segment and geographic details later.
In spite of the weak volumes and unfavorable currency operating income of $397 million increased 2% from the prior year due to excellent cost performance.
This is the result of better planned operations and fewer turnarounds reducing maintenance spending and the positive impact of our cost-reduction plan in Europe.
Sequentially operating income was also up 6% on improved cost performance.
Our operating margin improved to 17% up 130 basis points versus prior year.
Sequentially our operating margin improved 100 basis points.
Net income was up 2% versus last year and 8% sequentially.
Diluted earnings per share increased by 3% versus last year and 8% sequentially.
Our return on capital employed on an instantaneous or run-rate basis is 12.2%.
On an annual basis return on capital employed is 12.5%.
Returning -- turning now to Slide 5 for a review of the factors that affected the quarter's performance in terms of earnings per share.
Our adjusted continuing operations earnings per share of $1.41 increased by $0.04 versus last year.
Volumes decreased earnings per share by $0.04.
Like last quarter the mix impact of volumes was the principal factor.
Unfavorable volumes in Merchant and Electronics were only partially offset by favorable volumes in Tonnage and Performance Materials.
Also lower-margin air separation unit sales replaced higher-margin LNG heat exchanger sales in our Equipment and Energy segment.
Pricing energy and raw materials taken together increased earnings per share by $0.02.
And as I mentioned excellent cost performance was $0.10 favorable.
Currency translation and foreign exchange taken together were $0.05 unfavorable.
Equity affiliate income was $0.01 higher due to strong volumes from our Mexican affiliate.
Our effective tax rate was about 1% higher which reduced earnings per share by $0.02.
And finally fewer shares outstanding contributed $0.02.
Now I'll turn the call over to Simon to review our business segment results.
Simon? Thanks Paul.
Please turn to Slide 6 Merchant Gases.
Merchant Gases sales of $874 million were down 5% versus prior year driven by the negative currency effect.
Underlying sales were flat with 2% positive pricing offsetting lower volumes.
Sales were down 1% sequentially again driven by currency as volume gains of 1% were offset by lower pricing.
Merchant Gases operating income of $165 million was up 4% versus prior year and up 8% sequentially.
Segment operating margin of 18.8% was up 160 basis points compared to last year and up 150 basis points sequentially.
Versus last year operating income was up on higher pricing across all the regions and better cost performance.
Our distribution and production systems ran more efficiently and we began to see the benefit of our restructuring program in Europe.
Versus prior quarter positive volume growth offset lower pricing with better cost performance improving profits and margins.
Let me now provide a few additional comments by region.
Please turn to Slide 7.
In U.S./Canada sales were up 1% on positive pricing.
Overall volumes were flat with liquid oxygen/liquid nitrogen up slightly liquid hydrogen up and argon and helium down as supply availability limited sales.
As we mentioned last quarter we report Mexico as an equity affiliate so neither the volumes nor sales are included here.
If we included Mexico with U.S./Canada our overall North America LOX/LIN volumes would be up 3% on strong oil and gas injection volumes in Mexico.
Unfortunately we did not see any improvement in the helium situation this quarter.
Supply challenges continue in both the U.S.
and Algeria.
We expect the situation to improve in FY '13 helped by the onstream of our new Riley Ridge facility and other new sources we are exploring.
Argon supply was also limited this quarter as reduced oxygen demand for steel impacted argon co-production.
We are working to expand argon production but expect supply limitations to extend into next year.
Pricing was up 1%.
LOX/LIN/LAR was flat liquid hydrogen was down on lower natural gas costs and helium was up.
Contract signings were the strongest in 4 years and are well above target year-to-date providing confidence for growth next year.
LOX/LIN capacity utilization improved slightly but remains in the low 70s.
In Europe sales were down 12% versus last year primarily due to currency with underlying sales down 2%.
Volumes were down 4% on weaker end-market demand for both liquid/bulk and packaged gases particularly in Spain and Portugal.
Helium volumes were down on supply availability.
Pricing was 2% positive with strength broadly across the businesses.
LOX/LIN plant loadings remain in the low 80s and new contract signings slowed but we are still ahead of our target year-to-date.
In Asia sales were up 6% versus last year on positive volume and price.
Overall volumes were up 4%.
LOX/LIN volumes excluding conversions were up 7% and packaged gas volumes continue to show strength across both our base business and the microbulk product line.
Pricing was up 3% on strength in helium and packaged gases.
Plant loadings remain in the high 70s as new capacity additions offset the volume growth.
New contract signings remain strong and we are above target year-to-date.
During the quarter we announced the acquisition of a majority position in Indura the largest independent industrial gas company in Latin America.
Combined with our existing business in Brazil and our Mexico joint venture Air Products will be the second-largest industrial gas producer in Latin America a region second in growth only to Asia.
We closed on the purchase of approximately 65% of Indura in early July and we'll be including Indura in our results beginning in our fourth quarter.
We are very excited about the great opportunities we see as we join the Indura team's local expertise with Air Products' global experience.
Please turn to Slide 8 Tonnage Gases.
Tonnage Gases sales of $767 million were down 12% versus last year driven by a negative 12% impact from lower energy pass-through.
Volumes were up 2% primarily on new projects and currency negatively impacted sales by 2%.
Sequentially sales were down 2% driven by a negative 3% impact from lower energy pass-through and a negative 1% impact from currency.
Volumes were up 2% again primarily on new projects.
Operating income of $134 million was up 17% versus prior year on the higher volumes and lower operating and maintenance costs.
Operating income was up 7% sequentially as higher volumes and lower maintenance costs more than offset the anticipated impact of lower annual operating bonuses.
Operating margin of 17.5% improved 430 basis points versus prior year and 150 basis points sequentially primarily on the higher operating income.
Lower energy pass-through contributed 80 of the 430-basis-point improvement versus prior year and 30 of the 150 basis points sequentially.
The primary driver of improved margins was the lower costs.
In terms of new business we announced another contract to provide additional hydrogen to Motiva's Convent Louisiana refinery from our industry-leading Gulf Coast hydrogen pipeline system.
We have supplied Motiva for many years and this is the second instance where our new Gulf Coast pipeline connection allows us to provide flexibility for Motiva to take product at multiple locations along the pipeline certainly something Motiva values.
Please turn to Slide 9 Electronics and Performance Materials.
Segment sales of $604 million were flat versus last year with growth from our DA Nano joint venture acquisition offsetting 1% lower volumes 1% lower pricing and a negative 2% impact from currency.
Sequentially sales were up 6% on higher volumes in the acquisition.
Electronics sales were up 2% versus last year.
Excluding the acquisition electronic materials sales were down versus last year as expected with lower semiconductor production.
On-site and equipment sales were slightly higher.
Sales were up 10% sequentially with the acquisition adding to higher base business.
In general electronics materials pricing was relatively stable but we continue to see pricing pressure in xylene.
The overall photovoltaic market and specifically thin-film PV have not developed as was expected a few years ago.
Thin-film PV was expected to be a significant consumer of xylene and as a result market demand has not grown to match new industry xylene production capacity.
Performance Materials sales were down 2% versus last year as volume growth was offset by lower prices and currency had a negative 2% impact.
Volumes were positive in North America and Asia but weaker in Europe.
Sequentially sales were up 2% on volume improvement across all the regions.
Operating income of $91 million was down 17% versus prior year and operating margin was down 310 basis points to 15% primarily on lower volumes and pricing.
Sequentially operating income was up 6% and operating margin was down 10 basis points as the sales growth was primarily driven by the acquisition.
In Electronics we just announced a major contract from Samsung to supply their new fabs in Xi'an China.
This is Samsung's largest-ever overseas investment expected to be over $7 billion.
Air Products will build plants to supply Samsung and provide liquid products to the merchant market in the region.
This significant contract enhances Air Products' leading supply position with Samsung and the semiconductor industry.
We also announced a new contract with Xiamen Tianma Microelectronics for the supply of bulk gases to their new TFT-LCD facility in Fujian Province.
Now please turn to Slide 10 Equipment and Energy.
Sales of $95 million were up 19% versus prior year primarily on higher ASU project activity.
Sequentially sales were down 14% primarily on lower LNG project activity.
Operating income of $10 million was up 14% versus prior year as better project cost performance overcame the mix effect.
Sequentially income was flat.
Backlog is up 76% over last year and up 39% over last quarter driven by our recent LNG awards to the highest level in more than 5 years.
As we've been seeing LNG bidding activity remains strong.
We are pleased to have announced an agreement to supply equipment and technology to the PETRONAS Floating LNG project 180 kilometers off the coast of Bintulu Malaysia.
This is our second floating LNG equipment order and we are excited about the opportunities in this new area.
We also shipped a 100th LNG heat exchanger from our Pennsylvania facility earlier this month.
Our proprietary and industry-leading technology is helping meet the world's need for clean energy in 15 countries around the world.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Paul.
Thanks Simon.
Please turn to Slide 11.
Now let me give you a brief summary of our outlook.
As I mentioned earlier we did not see the expected second half global economic recovery.
We have also seen a stronger U.S.
dollar than we forecast.
Looking forward we expect that economic growth will continue to be below our original expectations.
While U.S.
manufacturing has been an economic bright spot recently we have seen growth start to slow as consumer confidence remains low job creation disappoints and concern grows regarding the potential fiscal cliff at the end of the calendar year.
European problems continue and we do not expect a return to growth any time soon.
In Asia we have not yet seen the impact of Chinese stimulus actions and the rest of developing Asia continues to experience below-trend growth as exports to Europe and the U.S.
are slow.
Electronics growth should continue this quarter.
Overall for the year we expect square inches of silicon processed to be down about 10%.
On the positive side our project development and contract signings continue to be very strong.
A number of these orders are in China for gasification of coal.
These projects are driven by the country's need for a cleaner domestic source of energy.
We expect 2012 capital expenditures to be approximately $2.9 billion including about $700 million for the Indura equity.
This will be up about 40% over last year excluding Indura.
Our project backlog has stayed consistent at about $2.8 billion which will deliver future profitable growth.
You can see an updated list of our major projects in the appendix Slide #13.
To help you with historical comparisons Slide #15 in the appendix shows non-GAAP capital expenditures which includes capital lease expenditures.
This is on the same basis as our $2.9 billion guidance for 2012.
Now let's turn to our fourth quarter outlook.
Our guidance for quarter 4 is for earnings per share of $1.42 to $1.47 based on the following factors.
On the positive side we expect to see Merchant Gases volume improvement particularly in Asia.
Electronics should see sequential volume growth.
We will see further benefits from the implementation of our cost-restructuring program and the improved LNG backlog should increase equipment results next quarter.
Partially offsetting this sequential improvement the Indura acquisition is expected to be about $0.02 dilutive in quarter 4 as we will recognize the transaction costs and asset write-up.
We expect the U.S.
dollar will remain strong.
We also will see higher power prices and lower cryogenic plant efficiencies due to high summer temperatures.
Therefore we expect our earnings per share to be between $5.40 and $5.45 for the fiscal year up 1% to 2% versus last year.
Our guidance for the full year is lower by about $0.11 per share on average for the last half of the fiscal year.
This decline is due to a stronger dollar which has lowered our earnings by about $0.06 from our expectations last quarter.
The Indura acquisition will reduce earnings by $0.02.
Slower economic growth has reduced our forecast by approximately $0.08.
And costs as a partial offset are favorable by about $0.05.
Now let me wrap up.
While economic growth continued to disappoint and currency headwinds were greater than expected we are pleased with the strong cost performance delivered this quarter.
We also have taken several portfolio actions to improve our business in the future including selling our Continental European Homecare business and the Indura and DA Nano acquisitions.
As we look beyond next quarter we have a number of significant opportunities.
Both our U.S.
and Asia Merchant Gases business have installed capacity to sell.
When manufacturing picks up we will have the capacity to serve it.
We are on track on our European cost reductions and our productivity efforts worldwide are delivering results.
Our capital expenditures continue to increase and we expect to announce more projects before the end of the year.
And LNG project interest is at an all-time high and we expect the LNG project backlog to continue to grow.
2012 has certainly offered its challenges.
Our focus is on meeting these challenges and achieving our 2015 goals.
Thank you and now I'll turn the call over to Lea to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll hear first from Jeff Zekauskas of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> What was your tonnage hydrogen growth in the quarter? The growth in volumes Jeff was a couple of percent.
We didn't have anything new come on in this quarter.
Research Division</strong> What's your outlook for volume growth in tonnage hydrogen for the fourth quarter and for next year? If we look at for the fourth quarter we think the hydrogen growth should pick up in this quarter principally because the refinery should run hard with the driving season in the summer we think.
So that ought to be a favorable impact.
As far as for next year as we look at it we'll have more to say to that.
But it should be for gross probably in the mid to high single digits Jeff.
We'll have more to say about that in the 4Q.
Our next question comes from David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's Jim Sheehan sitting in for David.
And just wondering if you can talk a little bit about the trends you're seeing in Asia and specifically China on Merchant pricing.
What is your outlook for trends in Merchant pricing going forward? Simon you want to take that? Sure.
So I think when we talk about pricing in Asia and China it's actually a pretty good story.
We saw good volume growth and we saw decent pricing in Asia.
As we said the volume growth perhaps not as great as we would've liked and would've expected.
We've seen announced some of the China stimulus actions.
We need those to translate into activity.
And of course in our Merchant segment the volumes are affected by what's going on in electronics as well.
So we continue to see some decent pricing in China and in Asia overall and we'd expect that to continue.
Research Division</strong> And on Electronics I guess the expected return -- rebound in year-over-year comparisons is taking a lot -- a little bit longer than expected and you made some comments about what you thought about Q4.
Is there any basis for additional optimism for 2013? Or are you expecting trends to remain pretty consistent over the next 6 months or so? I think a good portion of that Jim goes with how people feel from a consumer standpoint.
And so we have consumers in the U.S.
and Europe and in China who right now as we track these consumer confidence indices which don't feel great.
And so if -- and once we remove some of the uncertainty which exists around the world I think we'll see better pickups on those things.
But for right now I think everyone is being cautious.
They're waiting for the outcomes of the U.S.
elections and policy decisions on things and to see how Europe resolves itself with those things.
There's a little too much uncertainty in the world right now.
All that said I would not paint the economic situation as horrible.
It is just slow for us.
Research Division</strong> Just in Europe you mentioned volume growth slowing a little bit there and then your outlook is basically for more of the same.
Just wondering if you're seeing any signs of stabilization in Europe yet.
As far as being stable I mean it is not diving -- things are not diving down.
We are still seeing decreases from a volume standpoint overall in certain countries especially places like Spain of 3% to 4% with those things.
So it has been tough from -- on a volume standpoint in Europe for us.
But we haven't seen that start to level off from an economic standpoint and we're going to need that to happen sometime soon before we can return to some growth there in Europe.
Our next question comes from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Paul for Kevin.
I just wanted to follow up on the new business signings in Merchant Gases in the U.S.
When do you expect to see volume growth flow through from that momentum? We would expect to start to see the volumes pick up in -- probably from the signings in this quarter probably sometime toward the end of the first quarter the beginning of quarter 2 of next year.
It normally takes 6 to 9 months to bring our customers onstream with those things.
Now we have had momentum for a few quarters now so we would expect to see volumes improve in quarter 4 in the U.S.
with things.
And to be honest with you our volumes were pretty good in the U.S.
x the supply constraints which we had and Simon mentioned we had supply constraints in helium and argon.
If we look at that overall we think our underlying growth in the U.S.
probably would have been about 3% to 4% if those supply constraints weren't there.
So you can look at that as an upside for us.
If we can get out of the -- out from under the supply constraints which is going to take us a while it's going to take us some quarters to get past there.
But there's some growth there for us to harvest.
All right.
And as a follow-up in the U.S.
Gulf when you flip that pipeline on or connect the 2 what impact do you expect to see right off the bat on the P&amp;L? The impact on the P&amp;L is not going to be great initially.
We are going to have some more product which we can sell and we have pretty much sold that.
So we have people who are coming onstream as we look in our plannings for -- on signings on the pipeline.
So that's going to happen over 2013.
You're obviously going to see the depreciation of the pipeline coming in as a negative but we'll also be able to run the pipeline better -- to run this and not the pipeline but to run the system better.
That's going to take us some time to learn how to do that but we think the efficiency gains on the system are going to be pretty good because we'll be able to always run our most efficient plants and be able to cross volumes across the Louisiana system and the Gulf Coast system right now.
Our next question comes from Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I've got 2 questions for you.
First could you go into a little bit more detail on the cost performance just in terms of the splitting it out between -- I guess what I'm thinking about is how much of it is a function of restructuring? How much of it was a functioning of sort of your operating efficiency? And how much of it should we be carrying forward as we go into future quarters? And what other if any new opportunities do you see there? Yes.
So if you take a look at the things that happened from a restructuring benefit as Simon said we had about $0.01 per share benefit from the restructuring.
So it was overall $0.10 which we got from costs.
If you then -- and if you look at that remaining $0.09 a share about half of that came from variable cost efficiencies.
And so that's us running our plants better our power our -- the natural gas for hydrogen using less for that to make hydrogen saving on diesel fuel et cetera and about -- and the other half of that comes from lower spending principally on maintenance in the operations area.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when we think going forward I assume the $0.01 should be getting larger as we move forward right as you move forward into the restructuring program? And then the question is just how much of the balance of the $0.09 can you continue perpetually? Is that fair? We -- yes.
And I don't think we saw anything unusual about the $0.09 going forward here.
And so we think that that's going to continue.
And we think we can build upon that.
Research Division</strong> Okay terrific.
And if I could just ask one other question.
You've got 5 major projects that on Slide 13 you have listed as the first half of fiscal '13.
I'm just wondering if you can give us any sort of update on any of those projects leaning more towards the beginning of the first half or the end of the first half or anything we should be thinking about for that.
Yes.
Well if you look at them -- if I look at them overall I would say about those 5 about half and half roughly.
Then when you look at these things half come onstream in the first quarter the other half come onstream in the second quarter for us right now.
Our next question comes from Mike Sison with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of new projects this year I think the expectation was supposed to add $0.30 to $0.35 in EPS.
Is that roughly what it's going to contribute this year in '12? And would you see that number increasing staying about the same going down in 2013? It did Mike in 2012 so we did see that.
And so the thing which we haven't seen is -- we've actually seen areas such as Europe offload from us.
But the new projects did contribute that.
If we then take a look at 2013 we think we get a similar to maybe a slightly larger amount in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Paul I think you or maybe Simon noted that packaged gases is still seeing some strength.
Was that primarily in the U.S.? And could you sort of give us a reason why that market has held up? Yes.
So Mike good question.
I think there we were referring to Asia for packaged gases.
Obviously not having the U.S.
business in Europe packaged gases really being relatively weak.
So that was primarily an Asia comment and it's both on our if you will our base Packaged Gas business as well as strength in our marketable product line.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And last question you also noted weaker demand in steel for oxygen.
Was that on a sequential basis? And is that -- did that sort of get a little bit weaker as the quarter unfolded? It did as the quarter came through.
We think it's going to continue in the summer also Mike.
And it is weaker sequentially and weaker year-over-year.
Our next question comes from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
This is John Hirt on for P.J.
this morning.
In Merchant it sounds like you'll be facing helium and argon supply challenges for another quarter or maybe even longer.
Can you give us a sense of what the margin drag that is having currently and how much benefit you could get in FY '13 once those issues are resolved? Yes.
And John I don't know if it's having as big a drag on margin as it's having on growth because the industry is tied in helium the industry is tied in argon in the U.S.
particularly is where we're talking about argon and the discussion on helium go worldwide.
But the prices of both have been up for us.
So from a margin percent standpoint there has been a drag.
As I said if you take a look at the U.S.
we think that it probably cut back 3% to 4% on our growth within the U.S.
in those 2 areas.
And that's about a $1 billion-a-year business for us so that's somewhere between $30 million and $40 million in sales.
The contribution margins of those products are probably up in the 40% range for us so you can see what the impact of that is for us.
Okay that's helpful.
And in Electronics can you just talk about the trends that you're seeing across each of your end markets: semis LCDs PV and kind of how do you see that playing out for the rest of the year? Simon do you want...
Sure.
And I think as always we talk mostly about the semiconductor market because as you remember that's about 80% of our business.
So we made a reference to PV which is really quite weak right now.
That's only about 5% of our business.
TFT-LCD is fairly flat not showing a lot of growth.
That's only about 10% of our business.
In the semiconductor the external forecast that we see are forecasting a drop for our FY '12 of about 10% to 11%.
So Q3 was better than Q2.
It was worse than Q3 last year.
We expect kind of the same story for Q4 that things will be better than they were in Q3 but worse than they were in Q4 last year.
I think one of the key points though is again as we talked many times is our strength.
We're the industry leaders.
Our electronics sales were up 1% through 3 quarters while the industry was down and as I've said in the low double digits.
Intel's CapEx continues to be up significantly over last year.
TSMC's Q2 sales were up about 20% stronger than the industry.
Certainly both those folks are commenting about maybe there's a little bit of weakness in Q4 and Q1.
But again Intel Samsung and TSMC where we're the leading supplier are going to spend the majority of the industry's CapEx in this year.
So that helps us grow going forward.
Okay.
And where are your NF3 operating rates currently? So NF3 operating rates are probably in about the 80% range.
Our next question comes from Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Brian Maguire on for Bob this morning.
With some of the slowing macro numbers coming out of China I was wondering if you've seen any kind of deferral or a little bit lengthening in the pipeline for new contract signings there or any signs of customers wanting to defer the timing of new projects coming online over there.
We have not seen that occur.
And on the -- in the speech portion of this teleconference one of the things that I talked about was that really the drive for gasification projects is to give them a clean source of energy in China so it's really an infrastructure project and less tied to the economic growth of the country there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the Tonnage volume I think you mentioned there was maybe a negative currency impact to the volumes in some regions.
Which regions and maybe end markets were you talking about specifically there? Europe.
Research Division</strong> It's in Europe.
Europe yes on Tonnage.
It wasn't on volume.
It was on sales activity.
It was on sales that Simon talked about.
Research Division</strong> And are you seeing any of your customers in Europe on the Tonnage side start to come close their minimum take on their take-or-pay contracts? We have not seen that.
Our next question comes from Mark Gulley with Gulley &amp; Associates.
Yes.
Now that you've closed the Indura acquisition can you comment a little bit about the earnings accretion you might enjoy for fiscal '13? Yes.
And so I can't give you some more -- the comments on that Mark.
And the comments will get better as we get the -- a good look at the write-up which is going to happen.
As you know we have to have a third party take a look at our -- at the company and do the write-up.
But as we look at the accretion dilution impacts for 2013 for Indura we would expect that to be somewhere around $0.05 to $0.10 right now depending upon what happens with the asset write-up for us.
Okay turning to Tonnage if I can.
You reported a 2% volume gain in the quarter.
Can you break that down as you often do between base tonnage volumes and how much you enjoyed from new plant startups? Mark really that was almost all from new plant startups.
The base volumes were fairly consistent.
Overall yes overall.
Okay.
And then finally on Tonnage the maintenance expenses kind of jump up and down a little bit and so the margin or the operating income gain we saw in the quarter how much of that was due to a lower than let's say normal maintenance expenses? And -- or how much is really true underlying operating income growth that you might see into fiscal '13? I think as far as the maintenance expenses for this quarter they were low.
It's always hard to put a number around whether that was the right number or not.
We had good performance.
We expect good performance in quarter 4.
We would expect the spending to kick up in quarters 1 and quarters 2 because they're normally higher as far as the expenditures are concerned on turnarounds.
But the performance in that area was good Mark.
So I think overall we have had a good couple of quarters in a row now on the spending in that area.
Our next question comes from Mike Harrison with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> You had mentioned that you weren't seeing any slowing in China tonnage projects primarily because you're still seeing gasification being a new driver.
I was just wondering given the discussion about the potential of shale gas in China how might that impact the gasification opportunity over time? And are you expecting that as we get into the later part of this decade that maybe the coal gasification opportunity isn't as big as you might have expected a couple of years ago? We have taken a look at that Mike and we think that shale gas -- actually if the findings are large which is still a question mark and it's going to take a while to get there for China but that it would first eat into the LNG sales into China.
And that the gasification projects are really intended to get at the energy independence aspect of things and that shale gas would replace LNG right now.
That would be our view.
So we don't see a lot of that curling back trying to cut back on that.
Now the gasification opportunity we also think is not going to always be there.
We think there's a lot of development around that because China has the coal.
They want to use the coal.
Gasification is a good way to use that coal.
It makes it easier to transport the coal.
It also makes it more environmentally sound.
But we think that those gasification opportunities occur basically between now and 2020 and I don't know what happens after that.
We'll see what -- and we'll see what things happen.
But there's still a lot of those opportunities there going forward.
They're putting in place the infrastructure to do that so we feel sound that those projects are going to continue regardless of what happens to shale gas.
Because shale gas actually is a play probably out in the late portion of the decade which we're now in.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
And then in terms of the Merchant volume trends particularly on the liquid side of Merchant just wondering if you can comment on what you saw across the 3 geographies in kind of June versus May and thus far in July versus June.
Are you seeing any deceleration as you look across those geographies? We are not seeing a deceleration across the geographies of the trends right now.
So Europe is -- has continued to move down and we would expect that happening.
Asia has started to move up particularly in China.
It's early to call that.
We hope that that continues.
But we are optimistic about that and that's a factor which I've called out in the guidance.
The U.S.
still is -- the forecast we have is for growth to be slow for us but we do expect to see growth in the U.S.
sequentially.
Research Division</strong> And then last question Paul is just on the share repurchase activity during Q3.
How much did you repurchase? What was the share count at the end of the quarter? And can you remind me what your -- what's remaining on the authorization and how you might expect to deploy that given the Indura acquisition? So we did not repurchase any shares in this past quarter -- in quarter 3.
We did in quarter 2 repurchase $53 million as far as those -- as far as shares are concerned.
Our diluted share count is like 214.7 million or so I think for us.
And if we look at going forward given Indura as we said last quarter we would not expect to be in market and buying back shares.
Research Division</strong> So the quarter-on-quarter decline in share count was purely the impact of activity during Q2? Well yes yes.
It was the impact of quarter 2.
Our next question comes from John McNulty with Credit Suisse.
Yes.
This is actually Alina on for John.
Quick question on the Merchant business.
It seems like you guys have been a lot in terms of operating efficiency and cost cutting.
So 2 things.
One how much more kind of low-hanging fruit do you have left there? And it also seems like how much of the cultural change is internally how much more do you have to go in that area? Alina as far as we are concerned there's probably not a lot of things which I would call low-hanging fruit.
I think we got them more back in the '90s to a great extent.
But as far as changes are concerned and we still see a lot of it I believe to make changes and to use and to run the system and gain efficiencies.
And so a lot of that gets around trying to use the data we have in SAP and continuing to improve the tools we have to make our deliveries more efficient to open up windows and things like that and operate better both our plants and the distribution system itself and also for better ways to serve and interact with our customers electronically.
So we continue on this journey every day.
Our next question comes from Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes.
Paul a question on going back to U.S.
Merchant.
I mean you've talked about some time now about additional signings building up your mini-bulk sales force.
And I'm just wondering why we're not seeing more and more volume from this activity.
Can you kind of tell us when you really expect volumes to pick up how those signings are going? And speaking of Merchant overall if you do get some of this volume growth next year would you -- and the cost cuts that you're taking in Europe would you expect to get back to and beyond your old 20% operating margin target in the Merchant business? The answer on that -- on the last question is yes Don.
And we do expect to get above that 20% target in this business here.
With regard to the volumes as I said before I think we -- our growth would've been about 3% to 4% in this past quarter if we didn't have the supply constraints.
So that's one of the things which we have to fix that we have to get more access to more argon.
We're taking steps to do that.
We have to get access to more helium.
We're taking steps to do that.
It's not going to all happen in one quarter.
It's going to something which is going to unfold over 2013 for us as we work those -- as we work our options there for us.
With regard to the signings which we're seeing we are also seeing a number of customers go away.
And that's occurring for a couple of reasons: number one lower power prices have moved some of our food business out as people have chosen to go to mechanical freezing; number two oilfield services has been slow in the Appalachia area.
And principally there because of -- it's mainly dry gas and the rigs have moved out of there and moved to the Bakken.
We have seen a pickup in that area for those things but they're still drilling and so they've got -- it's a while before some of the frac-ing will -- and will pick up out there.
But we do have a new plant going on -- going out to serve the mid-Continent area so we feel good that we're going to have some growth from that in the future.
With regard to the other aspect of signings growth overall within the U.S.
has been slow from a process manufacturer's standpoint.
Steel growth has been tempered.
Petrochemical growth has been tempered and mainly because the new plants aren't onstream yet in those areas.
And so as we look to the future we think there's lots of opportunities for us.
But we got to get the economy moving a little bit stronger.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Well I guess I'm a little confused because your rates have languished in the low 70s since the beginning of the upturn in mid-'09 your competitors in the low 80s now.
So I would have thought that -- I mean they've seen many of these same problems.
I would have thought your signings would've closed some of that gap by now.
Yes.
And they should have Don.
But as I've said we have also seen business move away from that and that's been the issue.
There have been a number of people who have stopped using products or who have gone out of business for us and shut down.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one follow-up.
Speaking of gaps with your competitors your stock continues to be at quite a high historical gap with Praxair.
I know you've bought Indura.
You've got additional CapEx requirements but you still got room in your balance sheet it would seem to lever up and buy back stock here what would seem to be an attractive price if all your growth plans do come to fruition.
So just if you can comment on why you're not buying back stock anymore.
Yes.
And the reason why is because of the way in which we're going to run the company.
We're going to maintain an A bond rating.
As we look at this we don't have room to buy back stock and maintain the A bond rating for us.
If we did I would be in the market to do that.
But we want to maintain the flexibility to operate.
And we think that is best when -- at an A bond rating for ourselves.
Our next question comes from Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
One on -- often when you discuss pricing in -- for on-site projects you talk about sort of the substitution costs that the customers face.
As the customers see their -- as the large customers see their cost of capital coming down are you seeing more pushback on pricing for projects? No.
We are not seeing them favor the main case anymore than that typically.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you look at the U.S.
economy how would you gauge the sort of -- your sensitivity to possibly triggering a round of productivity in the U.S.? I mean is that -- you've taken down your outlooks a couple of times.
Can you speak just a little bit about -- are you fairly comfortable with the U.S.?  Do you feel that maybe there might be another round that's needed given the environment or how you're thinking about the risks as we look toward 2013? Our business within the U.S.
is solid.
Our margins are good.
Our -- and as we look at the growth prospects we're there and we feel good about that.
So I would not see us trying to take any action within the U.S.
Our last question comes from John Roberts with Buckingham Research.
I think you said that adding in Mexico alone would have increased your North American volumes by 3%.
Was that with 100% of Mexico or just your proportional share? And could you tell us what Mexico is up year-over-year and what the oil and gas component of that was because that seemed like that drove it? Yes John.
So just to be clear what we said our LOX/LIN volumes would've been up 3% and that assumes 100% of Mexico.
The oilfield services on a year-on-year basis were up pretty significantly.
I think it was in the range of 20% to 30%.
And again most of that was driven by the liquid nitrogen for oilfield services.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Thanks Lea.
Please go to our website to access a replay of this call beginning at 2 p.m.
today.
Thank you for joining us and have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude today's presentation.
We appreciate your attendance.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Air Products and Chemicals' Fourth Quarter Earnings Release Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also this telephone conference presentation and the comments made on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
Air Products will be recording this teleconference and may publish all or a portion of the teleconference.
No other recording or redistribution of this telephone conference by any other party are permitted without the express written permission of Air Products.
Your participation indicates your agreement.
Beginning today's call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Moore you may begin.
Thank you Leah.
Good morning and welcome to Air Products' Fourth Quarter Earnings Teleconference.
This is Simon Moore.
I'm pleased to be joined today by John McGlade our CEO; and Paul Huck our CFO.
John will first provide our overall perspective on the year Paul will review our 2012 and Q4 results I will review the segment results Paul will provide an outlook for Q1 and 2013 and finally John will provide some longer-term perspectives.
Our comments today are slightly longer than normal so we would ask you to limit yourselves to one question and one follow-up please.
We issued our earnings release this morning.
It is available on our website along with the slides for this teleconference.
Please go to airproducts.com to access the materials.
Instructions for accessing the replay of this call beginning at 2 p.m.
Eastern Time are also available on our website.
Please turn to Slide 2.
As always today's teleconference will contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions.
Please review the information on these slides and at the end of today's earnings release explaining factors that may affect these expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to John.
Thank you Simon.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Before I share my perspective on the year I did want to make a few comments.
As you've seen from our earlier announcement Paul has decided to retire from Air Products at the end of February.
After 33 years of exemplary service to this organization he has decided now is the right time to step back and spend more time with family and on other endeavors.
Paul has been with Air Products since 1979 and has served as our Chief Financial Officer since 2004.
Over that time he has exemplified the best of everything we stand for.
He has seen this company grow tremendously during his tenure and has been a key player in every step of the way as a leader mentor and trusted colleague.
I think I speak for the entire Air Products' Board of Directors and the entire Air Products community when I say he will be greatly missed.
Paul will remain with Air Products through February in order to transition his role to Scott Crocco.
Scott has been at Air Products for 22 years and has extensive experience in all areas of finance including serving as the financial manager for many of our businesses.
Scott currently serves as Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
I know that Paul plans to introduce Scott to many of you over the coming weeks and months so that you'll have the chance to get to know him as he moves into his new role.
While we are sorry to be losing Paul we understand his decision and have every confidence in Scott's ability to help take this organization forward.
Now please turn to Slide #3 for a review of the key highlights from our fiscal year 2012.
Let me begin by saying the global economy certainly proved to be more challenging than we expected for 2012 and we did not see the anticipated step up in economic growth in the second half of our fiscal year.
To summarize for the year we saw global manufacturing growth of about 3% toward the low end of our planning range.
This obviously impacted our volume growth particularly in our Merchant and Electronics and Performance Materials segments.
During the year we did take important steps to position our portfolio for future success.
We sold our European Homecare business and implemented a significant restructuring program to bring our costs in line with a slower economy in Europe.
And as we announced this morning we are exiting our polyurethane intermediates business and are restructuring our photovoltaic business to reflect current market conditions.
Paul will provide more details on these actions shortly.
We continue to execute on acquisition opportunities to support our strategies.
In July we closed on the purchase of a majority position in Indura the largest independent gas company in Latin America.
This year we also invested in a 25% position in Abdullah Hashim Group the largest industrial gas company in Saudi Arabia.
And this week we announced a complementary joint venture with ACWA the Arabian company for power and water development to focus on large-scale industrial gas opportunities within the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Finally we purchased the remaining 50% of our DA NanoMaterials joint venture.
We also continue to be successful in winning profitable projects in the key energy environmental and emerging markets.
Our 2012 capital expenditure was a record $2.8 billion including significant wins in oxygen for coal gasification in China.
We are now executing 6 projects in this exciting growth market totaling over 28 000 tons per day of oxygen.
Bidding activity remains strong as these projects are driven by China's drive for energy independence.
We completed the world's largest hydrogen pipeline network in the United States Gulf Coast.
This system allows us to offer customers the highest levels of reliability and flexibility while enabling us to optimize the energy cost and volumes from the system.
As one example Motiva awarded us a significant new hydrogen deal in part due to the flexibility created by the pipeline demonstrating again the competitive advantage this pipeline gives us.
We continue to win key on-site projects in our Electronics business notably with Samsung for their large new complex in Xi'an China; and UMC for their growth in Tainan Taiwan.
In the energy area we announced new LNG orders in Malaysia and Australia and we announced the exciting new energy from waste project in Tees Valley United Kingdom.
This project leverages our on-site business model and our significant operating experience to create a renewable source of energy for the U.K.
market.
And very importantly we increased our dividend for the 30th consecutive year something we are very proud of.
While I'm pleased with these key actions I am disappointed by our earnings growth in 2012.
We simply must improve our performance in 2013 and beyond.
We have increased the number of resources focused on loading existing capacity and we continue to step up resources devoted to delivering additional productivity in our fixed and variable costs.
To be clear we aren't relying on improved economic conditions.
We are committed to actions we can control that will deliver improving results in the near term.
Paul will now review our 2012 results.
Thanks John.
Please turn to Slide #4.
Before we get into the operating results I want to spend a moment reviewing a few items with you.
The first 2 are focused on our portfolio restructuring efforts.
First we decided to exit our polyurethane intermediates business and have shut down our Pasadena Texas polyurethane intermediates production facility resulting in an after-tax charge of $35 million or $0.16 per share.
Polyurethane intermediates was one of our legacy chemicals businesses that we've been running for cash for a number of years.
We have established a buy/resell arrangement with the buyer of the business to serve the 2 remaining supply contracts the largest of which expires at the end of 2013.
As a result we would expect a negative fiscal year '13 revenue impact of about $100 million and a negative EPS impact of about $0.05.
Also during the fourth quarter we completed an assessment of our position in the photovoltaic market resulting in an after-tax charge of $127 million or $0.59 per share primarily within our electronics business.
Consistent with the external market forecast we had anticipated significant demand growth for thin film or Gen2 solar panels.
To support this market we entered into a long-term take or pay supply agreement in 2009 for the purchase of xylene gas.
For a variety of reasons the thin-film PV market did not develop as the industry expected resulting in global xylene capacity of about 4x to 5x global demand.
We are in negotiations to terminate our xylene contract.
This charge reflects estimated termination charges loss on purchase commitments and the write-down of production and distribution assets inventory and accounts receivable.
Further details on these 2 items are available in the footnotes to the earnings release.
Finally we also recorded an after-tax charge of $6 million or $0.03 per share to write down our assets at Sparrows Point Maryland related to a customer bankruptcy and mill closure.
The facility served the steel mill as well as the merchant market with a piggyback liquefier.
The assets cannot be redeployed for alternative use.
Excluding these 3 items our adjusted non-GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations is $1.42 for the quarter at the low end of our $1.42 to $1.47 guidance range and up slightly versus last year and last quarter.
To help you with the quarterly comparisons Slide #18 in the appendix shows earnings per share from continuing operations x disclosed items for the last 2 years.
As John mentioned we closed on the purchase of 65% of Indura in July so the fourth quarter includes a full quarter of Indura results.
100% of Indura is included in our merchant results with the profits from the portion we don't own eliminated from the P&amp;L in the noncontrolling interest line.
Our integration efforts are progressing well and we are on track to deliver on our expected cost synergies and growth opportunities.
Regarding the remaining European Homecare business located in the U.K.
and Ireland we have received bids from interested parties and we hope to close on the sale of the remaining business before the end of calendar year 2012.
As an update to our Q2 European restructuring we continue to make good progress on our cost reduction plan and in fact saw about $6 million of benefit in the past quarter making the total for 2012 about $10 million of benefit consistent with our plans.
When fully implemented in 2013 we expect the cost reduction plan to provide $60 million of annual savings.
Now please turn to Slide #5 for a review of our 2012 results.
Sales of $9.6 billion were down 1%.
Currency and energy pass-through were both negative 2% while acquisitions added 2%.
Our underlying sales grew 1% from higher tonnage volumes being partially offset by weakness across our Merchant segment particularly in Europe.
Overall volume growth was much more modest than we had hoped.
While this is primarily due to a weak macroenvironment particularly in Europe and Asia we are not pleased with our performance to load our plants.
In our Merchant segment overall volumes were down 2%.
Volume growth of 6% in Tonnage Gases principally came from new investments and contracts.
In Electronics growth in on-site and equipment was offset by lower specialty materials demand.
Our operating income of $1.5 billion declined 1% and our operating margin for the year was 16%.
Earnings per share were up 1%.
And not surprisingly given our higher capital spending weak asset loading and acquisitions this past year our after-tax return on capital employed declined by 100 basis points to 11.5% still well above our 8% cost of capital.
Now let's turn to our results for the quarter on Slide #6.
Overall results were within our expectations.
However again weaker economic growth prevented volumes from growing as much as we had forecast and we had headwinds from the stronger dollar.
Despite this weaker environment pricing held firm.
For the quarter sales of $2.6 billion were 4% higher versus prior year in total.
On an underlying basis sales were also up 4% on higher volumes in our Tonnage Gases Equipment and Energy and Electronics and Performance Materials segments.
Our Indura and DA NanoMaterials acquisitions contributed 6% which was offset by unfavorable currency and lower energy pass-through impacts.
Sequentially overall sales grew 11%.
Underlying sales increased 3% on higher volumes across all segments.
Additionally the Indura acquisition contributed 6%.
Simon will provide segment and geographic details later.
Operating income of $408 million increased 3% versus prior year and prior quarter.
Our operating margin of 15.7% was down slightly versus prior year.
The impact of the acquisition and associated costs was a negative 50 basis points.
Sequentially our margins declined 130 basis points due to the Indura acquisition higher energy prices and higher operating and distribution costs.
Net income and diluted earnings per share were both up modestly versus last year and sequentially.
Turning to Slide #7 for a review of the factors that affected the quarter's performance in terms of earnings per share.
Our adjusted continuing operations' earnings per share of $1.42 increased by $0.01 versus last year.
Volumes increased earnings per share by $0.05 including $0.06 from acquisitions.
And as a reminder last year's fourth quarter included $0.05 of good news from tonnage contract modifications which did not repeat this year.
Let me take a minute and talk about the overall impact of Indura.
Indura sales were about $140 million this quarter or a run rate of about 10% higher in local currency terms than the March -- last 12 months' net numbers we communicated when we announced the deal in June.
Within the Merchant segment we had about $6 million of transaction cost with another $5 million of one-time financing cost captured in the interest expense line.
Overall given the acquisition cost and consistent with what we communicated last quarter Indura was about a $0.03 headwind for us this quarter.
Pricing energy and raw materials taken together increased earnings per share by $0.01.
Positive cost performance was $0.02 favorable.
Currency translation and foreign exchange taken together were $0.03 unfavorable.
Equity affiliate income and noncontrolling interest taken together were neutral.
As a reminder last year we disclosed $0.04 of good news in our equity affiliate lines from non-operational items which was offset by an accounting adjustment of a similar amount in noncontrolling interest.
What you see here is essentially the reversal of that trend -- of that item as a prior year variance.
And finally interest expense was $0.04 higher due to the Indura acquisition.
Now for a review of our business segment results I'll turn the call over to Simon.
Thanks Paul.
Please turn to Slide 8 Merchant Gases.
Merchant Gases sales of just over $1 billion were up 8% versus prior year primarily driven by the Indura acquisition.
Underlying sales were down 3% on 4% lower volumes and 1% positive price.
The volume effect on sales was impacted by contract modifications in the prior year in U.S./Canada.
Excluding that effect volumes would have been down 2%.
We also had a 4% negative currency impact.
Sales were up 16% sequentially again primarily driven by Indura.
Underlying sales were up 1% on a 1% volume improvement and flat pricing and currency had a negative 1% effect.
Merchant Gases' operating income of $161 million was down 5% versus prior year and down 2% sequentially.
Segment operating margin of 15.8% was down 210 basis points compared to last year and down 300 basis points sequentially.
Versus last year operating income was down on lower volumes particularly helium and Europe packaged gases and negative currency.
Partially offsetting this were benefits from our Europe cost reduction programs and profits from the Indura acquisition.
Excluding Indura the operating margin this quarter would have been 17.2% or 140 basis points higher.
As we discussed when we announced the Indura acquisition their operating margins are below our Merchant segment average due to approximately half of their sales being in lower-margin hard goods.
As Paul said the Merchant Q4 segment results include about $6 million of one-time acquisition costs.
Excluding the acquisition costs Indura's margins were in the low double-digits about what we expected.
Versus prior quarter we did see the negative impact of higher power costs and lower ASU plant output with the higher summer temperatures.
And we saw higher distribution costs particularly in North America due to tight helium and argon supply.
Let me now provide a few additional comments by region.
Please turn to Slide 9.
In U.S./Canada sales were down 6% on lower volumes and flat pricing.
Liquid oxygen and liquid nitrogen volumes were down slightly.
While we are successfully bringing onstream the business we previously signed we are seeing a number of customers shut down operations or stop using gases and in a few cases switched to competitive supply.
Helium availability remains a challenge and helium volumes were down as both domestic and overseas sources did not supply as expected.
We hope to get feedstock to bring our new Wyoming facility onstream late in our fiscal year 2013 and expect helium to remain tight until at least then.
Paul mentioned the shutdown of the Sparrows Point facility.
As we discussed last quarter this impacted our argon availability.
We are working hard to improve argon recovery at other facilities.
For example we recently moved quickly to redeploy an idle asset to a facility in a region with supply shortages.
Overall if we had the helium and argon we had expected and excluding the impact of the contract modifications U.S./Canada volumes would have been up 1% rather than down 6%.
Pricing was flat with helium increases offsetting slightly lower LOX/LIN/LAR pricing.
Contract signings stayed at the high level we saw through the first 3 quarters and are up 15% versus last year.
And LOX/LIN capacity utilization remained in the low 70s.
In Europe sales were down 12% versus last year primarily due to currency with underlying sales down 3%.
Volumes were down 4% on weaker demand for both packaged gases and liquid/bulk particularly in Spain and Portugal.
Helium volumes were down on supply availability.
Despite the weaker demand environment pricing remained positive up 1%.
LOX/LIN plant reloadings remain in the low 80s and new contract signings were at target.
In Asia sales were down 1% versus last year.
Underlying sales were flat on 2% positive price and 2% lower volumes as we are clearly seeing effect of lower demand particularly in China in electronics.
LOX/LIN volumes excluding conversions were up 2%.
Liquid argon volumes were down significantly particularly on lower PV demand in China.
One bright spot was the continued success of our Microbulk product line.
Despite the slower growth environment pricing was up 2% on positive packaged gas and flat liquid/bulk pricing.
Plant loadings were in the mid-70s.
And new contract signings for the quarter were down slightly but we finished the year well ahead of last year.
We continue to demonstrate application technology successes helping our customers use our products to reduce environmental emissions increase output and improve product quality among other benefits.
We announced a new contract to provide a full oxy-fuel solution to Jinxin Glass in Henan China including our PRISM VSA oxygen generator and Cleanfire oxy-fuel burners.
And we announced an order to provide similar systems to 5 CEMEX cement factories in Spain.
Please turn to Slide 10 Tonnage Gases.
Tonnage Gases' sales of $846 million were down 4% versus last year driven by a negative 7% impact from lower energy pass-through and a negative 2% impact from currency.
Volumes were up 5% about evenly split between base volume growth and new projects.
Sequentially sales were up 10% with 4% higher volumes and a positive 6% impact of higher energy pass-through.
Operating income of $141 million was down 7% versus prior year.
The volume growth and lower costs from strong operating performance improved profits.
However the PUI business delivered about $10 million less operating income than last year and as Paul mentioned in Q4 of last year we had a net gain from contract modifications of about $15 million that did not repeat this year.
Operating income was up 5% sequentially as the higher volumes more than offset lower PUI results.
Operating margin of 16.7% declined 50 basis points versus prior year as the lower PUI results and prior year contract modifications reduced operating income.
Margin declined 80 basis points sequentially on lower PUI results and higher natural gas prices.
We announced 2 more oxygen projects in China for coal gasification: a new 2 000-ton per day ASU in Hebei for Cangzhou Zhengyuan Fertilizer that will also produce liquid products for the merchant market and a 2 000-ton per day project in Guiyang with Guizhou Kaiyang a subsidiary of Yankuang Group with whom we are currently executing a 12 000-ton per day project in Shaanxi.
The new project in Guiyang will also provide liquid products to the merchant market.
Please turn to Slide 11 Electronics &amp; Performance Materials.
Segment sales of $617 million were up 5% versus last year.
Underlying sales were up 3% on 4% higher volumes and 1% lower prices.
Sequential sales were up 2% on higher volumes.
Electronic sales were up 9% versus last year on strong tonnage and equipment results and the DA Nano acquisition.
Excluding the acquisition Electronic's material sales were down versus last year as we did not see the typical seasonal volume improvement.
Sales were up 10% sequentially again on strong tonnage and equipment results.
Electronic materials pricing remained relatively stable with the exception of xylene as we mentioned last quarter.
Performance Material sales were down 1% versus last year as volume growth was offset by lower prices and currency had a negative 3% impact.
Volumes were positive in North America and strong in Asia but weaker in Europe.
Sequentially sales were down 7% on lower volumes in all regions due to general economic weakness a slower construction market and cautious customer supply chain management.
We saw lower prices both versus last year and sequentially but are also seeing lower raw material costs.
Operating income of $85 million was down 7% versus prior year and operating margin was down 180 basis points to 13.8%.
We had positive contributions from the higher volumes and good productivity performance but this was more than offset by the impact of inventory revaluation.
This was positive last year and negative this year consistent with lower raw material prices this year.
The segment effect is largely offset at the corporate level.
Slide 21 in the appendix provides more detail.
The net year-on-year impact of the inventory revaluation is 360 basis points.
Sequentially operating income was down 6% and operating margin was down 120 basis points.
The sequential impact of the inventory revaluation is 180 basis points.
In Electronics we announced a contract to supply 4 new phases of UMC's Fab 12A complex in the Tainan Science Industrial Park in Taiwan.
We will build a new ASU additional pipelines and a bulk supply system to complement our existing ASU and pipeline system in the Tainan Science Park where we supply major semiconductor and TFT-LCD manufacturers.
Now please turn to Slide 12 Equipment &amp; Energy.
Sales of $126 million were up 32% versus prior year primarily on higher ASU project activity.
Sequentially sales were up 33% primarily on higher ASU and LNG project activity.
Operating income of $18 million was up 54% versus prior year on the higher activity and better cost performance.
Sequentially income was up 81% on higher LNG project activity.
Backlog is up 35% over last year and up slightly over last quarter as LNG project development continues to be strong.
In August we announced an energy from waste project in Tees Valley U.K.
This innovative growth opportunity leverages our on-site business model and our experience with gasification syngas cleanup and power generation.
And just to clarify this project is included in our capital spending backlog not our Equipment and Energy sale of equipment backlog.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Paul.
Thanks Simon.
Please turn to Slide 13.
Now let me give you a brief summary of our outlook.
We saw the second half 2012 slower than the first half in most regions.
Given this lack of momentum we expect that economic growth will be modest at best in 2013.
Globally for the regions we operate in we are forecasting manufacturing growth of 2% to 4%.
While U.S.
manufacturing has been a relative bright spot we have seen growth slow as consumer confidence remains low job creation disappoints and concern continues regarding the potential fiscal cliff at the end of the calendar year.
European problems remain and we do not expect meaningful growth anytime soon.
In Asia we have not seen the impact of Chinese stimulus actions and the rest of developing Asia continues to experience below-trend growth as exports to Europe and the U.S.
are slow.
And we expect 2% to 4% growth in South America.
We are hopeful that electronics growth will begin to rebound in 2013 from a weak 2012.
Overall for the year we expect square inches of silicon processed to be up 4% to 6% next year.
On the positive side our project development and contract signings continue to be very strong.
A number of these orders are in China for the gasification of coal.
These projects are driven by the government's goal of developing domestic sources of energy and feedstocks utilizing their vast coal reserves.
We expect 2013 capital expenditures to be $2 billion to $2.2 billion.
This is comparable to the $2.1 billion spent in 2012 excluding the $700 million for Indura.
Our project backlog has increased again to about $3 billion securing future profitable growth.
We are beginning to see some slowing in a few of our customers' projects as they reflect the growing economic uncertainty.
You can see an updated list of our major projects in appendix Slide #17 and a geographic and business segment capital expenditures split in Slide #19.
To help you with historical comparisons Slide #20 in the appendix shows non-GAAP capital expenditures which includes capital lease expenditures.
This is on the same basis as our $2 billion to $2.2 billion guidance for 2013.
Based on this our initial earnings per share guidance range is $5.65 to $5.85 per share for 2013.
While economic outcomes could vary we are prepared to execute our business plans and adapt to whatever economic environment emerges.
Walking from our 2012 earnings per share of $5.40 we have the following factors: New plant onstreams in 2012 and 2013 should add about $0.25 to $0.30.
These are projects that are either onstream now or will be onstream soon and are backed by contractual commitments to buy.
This number is slightly below our previous expectations as we have seen some customer-related delays in new project onstreams.
Loading existing assets should add $0.10 to $0.20 to EPS.
This is the factor most influenced by the economy.
Indura net of interest expense should add about $0.10 versus last year with the polyurethane intermediates business divestiture reducing earnings per share by about $0.05.
In Equipment and Energy we expect operating results will be higher due to more LNG activity.
This is a $0.05 tailwind.
Our cost reduction in Europe should add about $0.15 a share somewhat offsetting the positives.
Pension expense will be about a $0.20 headwind due to the drop in interest rates from September 2011 to September 2012.
We expect currency and taxes to be a headwind.
And given our continued strong capital spending we would expect interest expense and shares outstanding to both increase modestly.
Overall about a $0.10 to $0.15 headwind.
Now let's turn to our first quarter outlook on Slide 14.
Our guidance for quarter 1 is for earnings per share of $1.26 to $1.31 based on the following factors: On the positive side we expect to see increased earnings sequentially from new plant onstreams.
Further progress on our cost initiatives will continue and the Indura acquisition transaction costs in quarter 4 won't repeat.
Offsetting this sequential improvement in Electronics and Performance Materials we expect lower seasonal demand and lower equipment sales.
In Tonnage Gases profits are expected to decline due to seasonally higher maintenance spending and lower volumes as refineries begin taking their annual outages.
We will see lower Equipment and Energy profits in the first quarter based on project timing although we do expect a rebound through the rest of the year and higher pension expense as previously mentioned.
Now let me call -- now let me turn the call back over to John to wrap up.
Thanks Paul.
While we are pleased with the expected long-term positive impact of the portfolio actions we completed this year we were disappointed with our overall performance during 2012.
In June of 2011 we shared our 2015 goals of $15 billion in revenue 20% operating margin and a 15% return on capital employed.
Since then the global economy has only delivered about half of the approximate 5% manufacturing growth that underpinned our expectations.
This had a significant impact on our recent performance particularly on merchant asset loading.
Further while we have improved productivity it is not at the level we need it to be.
We remain focused on attaining the operating margin goal of 20% and the return on capital employed goal of 15%.
However based on the continued slow economy we don't expect to be able to reach our goals in 2015.
Given the lack of economic clarity we are not in a position to predict exactly when we will reach these goals at this time.
Now let me talk about some of our near-term actions as we drive improvement towards these margin and return goals.
We need to be more successful in driving volume growth in our merchant businesses utilizing the investment in place to leverage margin improvement.
Our focus in Europe remains on implementing our cost reduction plan as quickly as possible ensuring we get to the $60 million per year of benefit early in 2013.
We've also recently brought onstream a new pricing analysis tool that should help us better target our pricing actions and improve both margins and returns in our Merchant and Electronics and Performance Materials segments.
In Tonnage we have brought onstream and are executing a large number of new plants.
We have to execute these projects on time and on budget and improve our plant efficiencies to drive further return improvement.
The Electronics and Performance Materials businesses have seen significant improvement over the past few years.
We need to continue to drive margin improvement and growth in these businesses through new products and focusing on our major customers.
We have won a number of new LNG orders this year.
We expect the global interest in LNG to lead to an expanded project list over the next few years so we are adding additional manufacturing capacity in Florida.
Finally 2012 margin and returns were helped by productivity and cost reductions.
We must continue to lower our fixed costs improve our operating efficiencies and leverage our fixed cost base as volumes expand.
While our 2012 results are disappointing and 2013 remains uncertain from an economic growth standpoint we are focused on the key actions we can control to deliver our margin and return goals.
As we end today's call again I would like to thank Paul for his 33 years of service to Air Products and especially these past 8 years as our Chief Financial Officer.
I'd also like to extend my congratulations to Scott Crocco.
Scott and Paul will both be on our next quarterly earnings call at the end of January.
Thank you.
And I'll now turn the call over to Leah to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on Merchant Gases.
It seems like Merchant business has been a work in progress for a couple of years.
Now Indura seems to be margin dilutive.
So when do you think you can get your margins back to sort of normalized range of 18% keeping in mind that your long-term goal is 21% to 24%? So P.J.
if we take a look at that one of the key aspects here which has been holding out on margins has been our loading.
And so as we've talked about that we think that that's an important aspect of bringing us back here.
So the loading in the U.S.
the loading in China principally given the load factors that we're at -- and that's going to be one of the things which boost it.
In Europe it is going to be the price reduction -- it is going to be the reduction in cost which we need to put in.
The bulk of that -- of this $60 million in savings will flow through Europe.
And plus some pickup in the economy eventually in Europe will help loading particularly in the packaged gas area where we have seen continued declines and things like the holdings of people holding the amount of cylinders has declined in Europe steadily for the past 3 or 4 years.
If we start the -- if that starts to pick up people will start to hold more of those.
The rental aspect that flows directly back to our bottom line.
So it's going to take some form of an economic pickup for us to see those things happen.
Research Division</strong> And then secondly you've been spending your CapEx at a rate of about more than 2x DNA.
And now you mentioned today that some customers are delaying projects.
I was just wondering if you can add some light on which area which segments that customers are delaying these projects.
And the places in which we've seen that P.J.
have principally been in hydrogen within the U.S.
We've seen project delays in the Electronics business.
We have not seen any significant delays in China on the gasification projects that are underway right now.
Our next question comes from Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> On the CapEx.
So we had a pretty aggressive CapEx build-out that was laid out at the Investor Day last year.
Since then the world's grown about half what you thought.
You've talked about some people delaying some projects.
Your stock is in a much -- more attractive level price-wise now.
When you compare kind of doing stock buybacks to continuing aggressive build-out into what seems like scenarios that already have a little bit of oversupply is there any thought of pulling back a little bit on CapEx and kind of readjusting that growth in a slower growth environment? Yes.
I think -- Duffy this is John.
I think what you got to look at is certainly at a macro level the economy is growing a lot slower than we anticipated.
But more broadly if you look at the on-site -- and most of our capital's going into our Tonnage business which I really believe secures our long-term future growth and cash flows and in turn profitability and most of that's going into either oxygen for gasification largely in China and up until very recently hydrogen projects again largely in North America or the United States.
And as we have for many many years we've been very clear about communicating sort of our priorities for the use of cash which is really to reinvest in the businesses that fit and opportunities that fit our strategy.
If you look at the total CapEx something like 80% 85% of the growth CapEx in these last couple of years has been in our Tonnage or on-site business model-type of investments.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on photovoltaics in particular could you size that business for us currently within your portfolio and then just kind of talk about what the volume growth in photovoltaics was for you last year and what you expect this next year? Sure.
If you take a look at PV PV between Electronics and the Merchant area is about 5% -- is about $50 million in each or about $100 million in total.
In the electronics area that's where we sell the xylene that's where we sell -- that's where we serve the bulk of the Gen2 customers which this charge is more related to [indiscernible].
So it's about -- a little under 5% of our cyclical [ph] sales and electronic stuff we sell into their -- into that area.
In Merchant we principally serve the people who make the polycrystalline solar and that's where we sell them LIN and argon for those things.
The only -- I'd just like to add the point if I may that we're not proud about this decision.
It was a terrible decision and a terrible assessment of the market opportunity at a different point in time when the world looked a lot different and we recognize the impact that this has to our shareholders.
I do think however from the standpoint of the business acknowledging this putting this behind us I think you'll begin to see the benefits that we've been able to put into the improvement of the overall Electronics business going forward.
Certainly we understand the severity of this and there will be accountability associated with it.
And Duffy just to close on the growth aspect of this the growth has been very slow in this past year for that because of the people backing off on the purchase of these things and the stimulus actions retreating.
Our next question comes from Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was looking at your balance sheet.
Your payable sequentially went up about $300 million to $1.9 billion and your other long-term liabilities went up about $400 million.
Can you talk about what those changes are about? Yes -- and those things are related to Indura first as we've brought Indura on Jeff for things.
There's a lot of changes in the balance sheet.
Indura is a big -- was a big purchase.
And remember we bring on 100%.
So even -- so I bring on $900 million -- we bring on on the total balance sheet probably about $1.3 billion or so when you look at that from assets and liabilities associated with that.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of your minority interest line because Indura made whatever it was $9 million on an operating level shouldn't the minority interest on a normal basis be much higher in the fourth quarter than it was in the third if you exclude these various reversals? Yes.
And so a thing which is getting -- which confuses this whole factor is that we had some tax adjustments which also flow and went through that line there which are -- there's things contained in the tax rate and they offset in the minority interest line which go around Indura for those things too.
But you're right it will be larger in the future.
Our next question comes from Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I got a question on sort of the interim goals 2015.
By 2015 you said is no longer valid.
What can we expect in the interim? You're not even putting your 17% margin targets that you had achieved back in 2011.
What interim goals should we expect? And is the issue here one of lack of focus? I mean it seems the results have been somewhat inconsistent and yet you're out making acquisitions in South America and joint ventures in the Middle East.
Do you need to focus more on core operations? Don this is John.
As I said earlier during my part of the call we're not going to set out an interim set of goals until we have better economic clarity.
Having said that we are absolutely focused on driving improvement here.
I think you have a fair question on are we not focusing on our existing business.
And from my perspective I think we are.
Some of the operating issues that we had in the core businesses in Merchant and Tonnage I believe we have our arms around.
I believe we've put in the right management structures globally in these businesses.
But as Paul correctly pointed out particularly on the Merchant segment we really need to have some economic tailwind to really be able to get the leverage out of the existing asset base that we have.
If I just took and Paul made these comments if I just took a look at Europe in particular in some cases in the Packaged Gases businesses we continue to go down after several years of slow or negative growth or negative growth in southern Europe.
And now we're seeing more of the core of Europe if you will also starting to slow.
Yes Don.
And Don think one thing here is we're going to have an Investor Day in November here in Houston.
At that Investor Day both John and I will address the path better here.
It's kind of tight on the call today and you asked a good question.
It deserves a good answer from those things.
But within the time constraints of today's call it's hard for us to do.
But at the Investor Day we're going to talk some more about that and lay that out better as far as the path forward for us.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And one quick follow-up on the portfolio.
You've gotten out of several non-core businesses.
Does Performance Materials really fit? I mean it's got attractive financial characteristics but it's really a non-gases business.
So is that the next leg in portfolio management? Don we've talked about certainly Performance Materials over the years.
That business has been performing extremely well.
We've restructured it.
It gives us a really good insight to specific markets and it really allows us to leverage some of their capabilities broadly across both their business and the Electronics Specialty Materials businesses.
And quite frankly their value-added approach to the market in terms of extracting value based on the value that we bring to that customer base is something I'd like to see more of more broadly across our portfolio.
Our next question comes from Mike Harrison with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> Was just hoping you could talk a little bit more about the helium situation.
It looks like you've pushed out the Wyoming facility startup date from the first half to the second half of last year.
And just maybe an update on what's going on there and how confident you now are that it'll be up and running before the end of next fiscal year.
Yes Mike.
And so as far as the plant in Wyoming understand that our plant is -- and can come online at any time.
It has been ready for almost a year now.
We are waiting for our crude supplier to be -- to bring his plant online.
We now expect that to happen late in our fiscal 2013.
We do not control that aspect of things.
However there are other things which we are attempting to do and we continue to explore them to get better supply of helium to us and that's going out and exploring some other places in which we can -- and access some helium for us in the future.
And so we -- it is our -- it is in our forecast that our crude supply will start to pick up around quarter 2 of this year and get some improvements in that.
And then quarter 3 quarter 4 perhaps seeing the plant in Wyoming come onstream in quarter 4 for us.
But obviously very important we are doing everything we can and including taking some actions long term -- on the longer term because we think the growth rate of helium is going to be -- continue to be very strong.
Research Division</strong> And then the other question I have is on Merchant in the U.S.
and Canada.
Just maybe talk a little bit about the competitive dynamics there.
I think you mentioned you're losing some business to competitors.
And I would just think that given your position and given your kind of capacity utilization situation that really nobody should be pushing harder to get business or keep business.
So why are we seeing business going to competitors? Yes.
I think in fairness in this business you're constantly balancing volume with pricing and margin expansion.
And so we do take a very very customer-specific view along with the assets that we have in a particular region and make those judgments real time each and every time.
Yes we're seeing more competitive activity there but that isn't the lion's share of the lost business.
We also are seeing some of our customers go out of business in general.
Having said that if I step up a level and talk more broadly we have increased our new business signings significantly year-on-year and we're getting that volume starting to come into the P&amp;L.
As we've told you over about the last year there is typically a 3- 4-quarter lag from when you sign business till it begins to show up in the P&amp;L.
And we've continued to redouble our efforts in terms of putting more feet on the ground and signing new businesses -- or signing on new business.
And the point I was trying to make a moment ago is we have seen year-on-year substantial year-on-year increases in the amount of business that we've signed.
Research Division</strong> And is it fair to say we're at the 4 quarter end of the lag rather than 3 quarters in terms of those new contracts coming onstream? Yes I think that's a fair statement and I think we've started to see that.
I mean it's masked quite honestly by some of these other issues that we've been talking about including the argon and the helium shortfalls and frankly the contract modification that we addressed in the prior-year comparisons.
But we are beginning to see that business come on.
The other point I was making is the amount of new business we were able to sign throughout this entire fiscal year '12 was greater than our original budget and at a good trajectory from my perspective.
Yes.
Signings for '12 in the U.S.
were up by double digits so we should see this start to improve.
Our next question comes from Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two related questions one on productivity.
I guess you've laid out -- you've done various initiatives already you still have some ongoing.
Is this it? Or do you feel that there's another tranche that can be done? Or is there like a certain percentage of the business that you could label or a particular region that you could characterize as being subpar and in a fixed or exit kind of mode? And then the other question is as you think about longer-term growth opportunities in a slower growth environment the natural gas -- the U.S.
natural gas related to the projects like the fertilizer and chemical plants are going to be that much more attractive to your competitors.
Are you worried that the pressure -- there's going to be downward pressure on returns on capital for people bidding for those very large projects in the U.S.
going forward? Okay Laurence.
Let me give a couple of thoughts and then I'll turn it over to Paul to give you more specifics.
My comments Paul's comments are we're seeing progress in productivity.
It's getting masked somewhat by the shortfalls in volume but we also are very clear both internally and I thought I was in my comments that we need to do more there and that we are kicking up the resources broadly to continue to deploy our Lean Six Sigma tools and really really focus here more on the variable cost productivity that we can deliver from the P&amp;L.
On the sort of restructuring side of things I think we've sized the organization globally for what we anticipate the growth of the economies that we're operating in to be.
We've got to execute as we've said on the restructuring for example in Europe.
And we're being very very cautious in the addition of any additional growth-related investments and resources until we see much more visibility.
Why don't I stop there? We could come to your second question but Paul you might want to add a few comments on productivity.
Yes just a couple of comments Laurence on the productivity end.
On productivity it is never it so you constantly strive for that.
That's what we do.
So we drive for absolute cost reduction.
Plus the other aspect of this is by the things which we have put in place.
We've talked about this our SAP system our shared services our operating service centers.
We are looking to leverage our fixed cost.
And so we think that there is margin improvement which comes as we grow this company which you don't have to add the fixed cost which you typically would have to add to service things.
So we have capabilities in those centers which we have and in those systems which can handle a lot more.
And so we think that that's a good margin improver for us as we talk about it.
And so those are the things which we focus on.
And also finally I think with -- regarding on the restructuring we always look to size the business appropriately.
So it's going to depend upon the economy going forward for us.
John? Yes Laurence.
If I understood your question on sort of the advent of lower natural gas let's say for now in the United States or North America certainly I think net-net that's an opportunity in terms of it ought to stimulate more manufacturing growth over the longer term.
It's certainly already showing up if you will in the chemical industries in the Gulf Coast.
And there I believe we're very well positioned to participate.
Some of you will have the opportunity obviously to see the fruits of our labor and sort of the interconnecting of the world's largest hydrogen pipeline systems.
That positions us very well in syngas supply to projects like this.
But I think the other thing that we've talked about many times is tonnage projects by their nature are discrete investments that have to meet our return goals both from a business level point of view and be accretive to the enterprise.
And so we have control I guess for lack of a better set of words on our destiny as to whether or not you take a project that is subpar from a return point of view.
Now I think we have a lot of competitive advantage with what we've created in the Gulf Coast which is where a lot of these projects are going to be.
And we continue to stay very focused not only on our variable cost productivity but on driving the cost of our assets and our investments down by leveraging the base that we have and leveraging the experience that we have.
Our next question comes from Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> John you guys in the past have talked about an industrial gas world -- industry that can grow at 9% a year.
And I'm just wondering do you think there's been a secular change? Is that a little bit too aggressive? Maybe the multiplier to GDP is not what it's used to be.
Or do you think we're just in the cyclical air pocket here? So I think it's more the latter than the former.
And when we've talked about those types of numbers we did talk about that in the context of a 5% nominally 5% global manufacturing rate.
And then we obviously dissected that a little bit further by the various regions in the globe and what their level of industrial gas intensity is.
Right now we're kind of sitting with a huge dichotomy where we're seeing pretty good -- over the last couple of years good if not above trend line growth in the Tonnage side of the businesses.
At the same time we're seeing that eroded if you will by a significant slowdown on the Merchant side of the businesses.
Research Division</strong> And if I look at your global growth that you've put in the guidance range 2% to 4% of global growth I think Paul when you went through to work out the bridge to fiscal '13 you talked about maybe 3% or 4% earnings growth from end-market growth.
I would have thought that it'd be a higher number.
Is there something specific that's different this time around? Or why won't you have a little bit better base growth if you think the world might grow as much as 4%? If you look at this on earnings growth I think the other thing which goes in there is the projects which we're bringing onstream are also part of that end market for things.
And so if we look at where the bulk of the growth is in industrial gases as forecasted to happen a lot of it does get around the on-site contracts.
So our new projects are going to be a larger contributor to growth than a loading is going to be to them in the near term for us right now.
The loading aspect of growth I think comes from people starting to expand their manufacturing capabilities in still in places like China in places like the U.S.
for us to get that load in there.
And that's been very slow.
Our indications in China from a manufacturing standpoint if we look at rail freight if we look at electricity demand over the past few months it has been close to 0 Bob.
Our next question comes from David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> John looking at your backlog if you look at what you will bring onstream this year and what you're looking at from a bid standpoint will the backlog by year end be higher or lower than the current $3 billion do you think? I think what we were trying to say is this we expect it probably goes a bit lower here in the near term for the points we were making where people are frankly slowing down some of their decisions particularly outside of China.
The China side of gasification seems to be pretty robust still.
But I think when you look more broadly globally whether it be hydrogen additions on a worldwide basis U.S.
Gulf Coast basis or steel -- oxygen-related steel investments or electronics investments people are taking a bit of a pause if you will or a slowdown in committing.
Now I think these are valuable projects.
And I think when people have more clarity and insight to where this world's going they're projects then I think could quickly be accelerated.
Yes Dave.
I think another thing to point out is and I've talked about this before is I think capital expenditure is a much better way to look at this than -- and then to look at backlog.
If you look at our underlying capital expenditures this year take out the stuff with Indura about $2.1 billion.
For next year we're seeing it's $2 billion to $2.2 billion so that's about flat for us going forward here which kind of reflects a little slowing of growth here.
Research Division</strong> And I guess lastly on the photovoltaics what did that business lose within Electronics in 2012 and what the restructured contracts should be nominal for next year? The business was about a breakeven in Electronics last year.
On the Merchant side we actually make money.
We make money there.
Your next question comes from John McNulty with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Abhi Rajendran calling in for John.
A couple of quick questions.
Could you walk us through the rationale behind the ACWA JV in Saudi Arabia and some of the key opportunities this presents? Yes sure.
From my perspective Saudi Arabia continues to represent from the large tonnage side of the industrial gas business a real opportunity.
There's significant obviously hydrocarbon reserves there and investment and we just felt that lining up with a partner like ACWA really gave us the right -- the ability to be effective in competing in that marketplace.
And it really follows on from our strategy to be an investor in Abdullah Hashim Gases as well.
Because as you well know we really need and want to operate against an integrated gases model wherever we can.
So the tonnage plant piggybacked and then all aspects of the market.
And the combination of those 2 relationships really allow us to look at that market in that context.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then another quick question just on new business trends kind of put another way.
Could you maybe touch on what sort of trends you're seeing with RFPs and how we should be thinking about any macro-related impact on those? Yes I think our request for quotations hasn't modified that much.
What you're getting is more of a color commentary from Paul and I in projects that might have been let's just say -- build into and that's part of the reason we took down our '13 number for new projects because projects that are in the capital stack are -- the onstream are slipping a quarter or 2 or 3 based on the customer's view of where the world is.
I think there is a lot of uncertainty and people will not necessarily act as quickly on their RFPs.
But they're still trying to form projects if you will and understand their project economics.
In China the comment we were making we hadn't seen much of a slowdown if any in the gasification side of things.
I think we are seeing if I contrast that to say hydrogen in North America we are seeing people just delaying how and when they want to push the button to kick their project off.
Our next question comes from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess several years ago when you addressed the chemicals portion of the portfolio strategically I guess it was my impression that you had taken some steps to derisk and stabilize the polyurethane intermediates business and that was part of the rationale for including it in the Tonnage segment for reporting purposes.
Can you address what's changed in that business last couple of years and why you're now exiting if it's going to be $0.05 dilutive to earnings? Yes Kevin.
I don't think really our view of the business has changed at all with this.
At that point in time really a couple of years before that we made the decision not to take the business overseas where a lot of this production is going.
So we started playing an endgame strategy around it.
We've put this into that segment because of the way the contracts are run in their long-term contracts.
And so it fit the business model for us on those things.
Now we are playing these contracts out and so we had a chance to shut the plant down which is trying to derisk the business further from them and make sure our customers still have their supply.
And we will continue to have a profit contribution and a sales contribution from this business.
But those contracts will eventually run out and this business will go away for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I follow up if I may on Indura just to your intention to acquire the remaining 35% you don't already own? And when would you expect to cross over to earnings accretion for that business? It's going to be accretive in quarter 1.
So as we said $0.10 a share.
We're going to see accretion in quarter 1 from Indura for us.
As far as our -- acquiring the other portion of this it's held by an individual who we bought -- in the family who we bought the original the portion which we own from.
And they have a put option to us which they can exercise anywhere from the end of the third year to the end of the fifth year.
Our final question comes from Mike Sison with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of silicon growth for 2013 can you give us a feel of how you expect that to sort of run out in the first half? Is it down considerable in the first half? And just trying to gauge what type of recovery we need to hit that outlook.
Yes I think -- Mike I think you're right.
I think quarter one and quarter 2 are going to be slower and we're going to see upticks in quarter 3 and quarter 4.
I know we said that in last year also with those things but we never saw the rebound in consumer electronics.
We haven't seen a rebound in PCs for those things.
And at some point in time when I think the consumer starts to feel better and we get some more discretionary spending -- and in some time on the PPC market businesses are going to start pulling that forward also as they move -- as they see more reason to invest on things.
So I do think it's a second half thing where we're going to see stronger growth in half 2 than in half 1.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in Merchant Gases for '13 underpinning your outlook given the shortages and contract minification what type of -- can you grow volumes next year? Yes.
Yes we can in Merchant Gases.
Yes.
Thank you.
All right.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude today's presentation.
We appreciate your attendance.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Air Products and Chemicals' First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also this telephone conference presentation and the comments made on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
Air Products will be recording this teleconference and may publish all or a portion of the teleconference.
No other recording or redistribution of this telephone conference by any other party are permitted without the express written permission of Air Products.
Your participation indicates your agreement.
Beginning today's call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Gwen.
Good morning and welcome to Air Products' First Quarter Earnings Teleconference.
This is Simon Moore.
I'm pleased to be joined today by Paul Huck our CFO.
As we announced in October Paul will be retiring at the end of February.
I'm also pleased to be joined by Scott Crocco who will succeed Paul as CFO.
Paul will review our overall Q1 results I will review the segments and Scott will provide our outlook for Q2 and the rest of 2013.
We issued our earnings release this morning.
It is available on our website along with the slides for this teleconference.
Please go to airproducts.com to access the materials.
Instructions for accessing the replay of this call beginning at 2 p.m.
Eastern Time are also available on our website.
Please turn to Slide 2.
As always today's teleconference will contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions.
Please review the information on these slides and at the end of today's earnings release explaining factors that may affect these expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Paul.
Thanks Simon.
Good day everyone and thanks for joining us.
Let me start by saying it's been a pleasure working with all of you over the past 9 years.
I will truly miss it.
Let's turn to our results for the quarter on Slide #3.
Our overall earnings per share results were in the top half of our expectations.
However softer-than-expected economic growth in the U.S.
a deeper contraction than expected in Europe and continued soft volumes in China and a weaker electronics market prevented volumes from growing as much as we had hoped.
Despite the weaker economic environment we continue to take actions to improve our businesses.
Pricing held firm.
We are almost complete with our Europe restructuring actions and our plants ran well.
We also repurchased 5.7 million shares this quarter.
We did this opportunistically when we saw the weakness in our share price in the fall.
Our cash projections had us repurchasing shares later in our multiyear planning cycle.
When we saw the weakness in the price we decided to move the repurchase forward.
Overall we spent $462 million and paid an average price of $80.69 per share.
We still have a little under $500 million left in our repurchase authorization.
Our cash priorities remain the same investing in good high-return projects increasing our dividend each year and maintaining our A bond rating.
For the quarter sales of $2.6 billion were 10% higher versus prior year with the Indura and DA NanoMaterials acquisitions contributing 6%.
On an underlying basis sales were up 4% on higher volumes in our Tonnage Gases segment across all regions.
Our Equipment and Energy segment and our Performance Materials business also posted strong year-on-year volume improvement.
Not surprisingly this was partially offset by weakness in our European Merchant and Electronics businesses.
Sequentially overall sales declined 2% with underlying sales down 4% on seasonally lower volumes across the Merchant and Electronics and Performance Materials segments and lower activity in Equipment and Energy.
Simon will provide more segment and geographic details later.
Operating income of $372 million increased 5% versus prior year and decreased 9% sequentially.
Our operating margin of 14.5% was down 70 basis points versus prior year mainly due to the impact of inventory accounting revaluation higher pension costs and the Indura acquisition.
Excluding these impacts operating margin would have been up 50 basis points primarily due to our European cost reduction and improved plant operating efficiencies.
This quarter we had some larger-than-normal impacts flow through our P&amp;L related to inventory accounting and not related to cash or inventory levels.
In our year-end balance sheet we adjust our inventory to actual costs for the year.
During the year we use standard costs for our inventory.
This necessitates an adjustment at the beginning of the year to move from the previous year actual cost to our new standards.
Typically this adjustment is not large as the prior year actual and the new standard are usually close to one another.
For example last year the total adjustment was $2 million favorable.
This year however the adjustment was $10 million unfavorable due to the following actions taken to lower cost and improve our Electronics and Performance Materials business.
First we moved to in-house production for a product which we had previously purchased.
Our in-house production cost is much lower therefore our standard cost is lower than the cost we used at the end of 2012.
Second given the slow demand we have been able to negotiate a number of price decreases for raw materials in 2013.
This also lowers our standard cost versus our cost used at year end.
Both items are positive for the business but produce a current period P&amp;L expense to reflect the adjustments to the carrying value of the inventory.
As we go through the year we should recover these expenses as the products are sold at higher margins.
Sequentially our margins declined 120 basis points primarily due to seasonally lower volumes and higher pension costs.
Net income and diluted earnings per share were both up 3% versus last year.
Our return on capital employed of 11.2% was lower due to our higher capital spending acquisition and lower asset loadings.
Turning to Slide 4 for a review of the factors that affected the quarter's performance in terms of earnings per share.
Our adjusted continuing operations earnings per share of $1.30 increased by $0.04 versus last year.
Volumes increased earnings per share by $0.12 including $0.07 from acquisitions.
Pricing energy and raw materials taken together decreased earnings per share by $0.03 due to higher raw material and energy prices.
Net cost performance was $0.05 unfavorable.
Base business costs were $0.08 positive primarily from the impact of our European cost reduction and improved plant operating efficiencies.
This was more than offset by inflation inventory revaluation impacts and higher pension costs.
Currency translation and foreign exchange taken together were $0.02 favorable.
Equity affiliate income and noncontrolling interest taken together was $0.01 higher.
Interest expense was $0.02 higher due to acquisitions and our share repurchases.
A higher tax rate this year reduced earnings per share by $0.02.
Our tax rate guidance for the year remains unchanged at approximately 25%.
And finally lower shares outstanding contributed $0.01.
Now for a review of our business segment results I'll turn the call over to Simon.
Thanks Paul.
Please turn to Slide 5 Merchant Gases.
Merchant Gases sales of just over $1 billion were up 14% versus prior year driven by the Indura acquisition.
Underlying sales were down 1% on 3% lower volumes and 2% positive price.
Sales were down 1% sequentially underlying sales were down 2% on 1% positive price and 3% lower volumes due to seasonality.
Merchant Gases operating income of $171 million was up 3% versus prior year and up 6% sequentially.
Segment operating margin of 16.9% was down 180 basis points compared to last year but up 110 basis points sequentially.
Versus last year operating income was up on the benefits from our Europe cost reduction programs and profits from the Indura acquisition partially offset by lower volumes particularly in our Europe packaged gas business.
Overall we are pleased with the performance of the Indura business.
We continue to see solid growth in the base business and are excited about a number of small on-site opportunities that bring together Indura's local knowledge and our on-site expertise.
As we have said given Indura's large hardgoods business their margins are in the low double digits about what we expected but below the Merchant segment average.
For the quarter Indura negatively impacted segment margins by about 80 basis points.
Margins were also impacted by the lower volumes and higher pension costs.
Versus prior quarter we did see the expected seasonal volume weakness and higher pension costs but improved productivity and prior quarter Indura acquisition costs improved margins.
Let me now provide a few additional comments by region.
Please turn to Slide 6.
In U.S./Canada sales were up 2% on 1% higher volumes and 1% higher price.
Liquid oxygen liquid nitrogen volumes were up on strength in chemicals foods and metals.
We continue to be successful bringing contract signings onstream and new signings this quarter were well above prior year.
Lost business this quarter was at more typical historical levels much lower than we had been seeing recently.
Helium availability has improved since last summer but helium volumes are still down versus prior year and below our expectations due to supply constraints.
We expect to get feedstock to bring our new Wyoming facility onstream late this fiscal year and expect helium to remain tight until at least then.
We are also pursuing additional global opportunities to increase our helium supply.
Argon availability improved as we worked hard to increase production and also saw softer demand.
Pricing continues to be favorable led by helium and LOX/LIN capacity utilization remained in the low 70s.
In Europe sales were down 6% versus last year.
Underlying sales were down 4% on 5% lower volumes and 1% positive price as we continued to successfully implement increases.
Currency had a negative 2% impact.
LOX/LIN volumes were stronger in U.K.
Ireland and Central Europe but weaker in Southern Europe and the Northern Continent.
Packaged gas volumes were weak across the region and helium volumes were down on supply availability.
Despite the weaker demand environment pricing continued to be positive up 1% led by strength in helium.
LOX/LIN plant loadings were in the high 70s and new contract signings were up versus last year.
In Asia sales were up 5% versus last year.
Underlying sales were up 2% on flat volumes and 2% higher price.
Currency had a positive 3% effect.
LOX/LIN volumes excluding conversions were up 2% across the region and up 4% in China.
Similar to last quarter liquid argon volumes were down significantly on lower steel wholesale and PV demand in China.
Packaged gas cylinder volume growth was moderated by customer profitability actions.
However we continue to see good growth in our Microbulk product line.
Pricing was up 2% on strength in helium plant loadings remain in the mid-70s and new contract signings for the quarter were up over last year and last quarter.
Please turn to Slide 7 Tonnage Gases.
Tonnage Gases sales of $898 million were up 11% versus last year on strong 13% volume growth.
Base volumes contributed about half of the growth with particular strength on the U.S.
Gulf Coast where our new pipeline connection enabled us to support increased customer spot demand as our competitor had short-term capacity challenges.
Air Products' new projects onstream this quarter include our hydrogen plant in Detroit for Marathon and the Petrochina ASU.
As we announced last quarter we are exiting our polyurethane intermediates business and have shut down our Pasadena PUI facility.
We will be reporting PUI in continuing operations as we establish a buyer-resale arrangement to serve customers through the end of their contracts but we will help you understand the impact of changes in the PUI business.
For the quarter sales were down less than $10 million versus prior year and operating income was relatively flat as we gave price relief last year to a customer.
For the full year we expect PUI sales to be down about $150 million more than we previously communicated as one of our remaining customers is not currently operating their facility.
We still expect about a negative $0.05 EPS impact for the year unchanged from our previous guidance.
For the segment sequentially sales were up 6% on 4% higher volumes and a positive 4% impact of higher energy pass-through.
Currency had a 1% positive impact while PUI was negative 3%.
Operating income of $138 million was up 24% versus prior year on the strong demand better operating performance and lower maintenance spending at our facilities.
Operating income was down 2% sequentially primarily due to the PUI business.
Operating margin of 15.4% was up 160 basis points versus prior year on higher volumes and lower maintenance.
Margin declined 130 basis points sequentially on lower PUI results and higher natural gas prices.
In October we dedicated the world's largest hydrogen plant and pipeline system stretching from the Houston Ship Channel in Texas to New Orleans Louisiana.
The new pipeline connects our Texas and Louisiana systems creating a 600-mile pipeline with over 20 hydrogen sources and increases the reliability and flexibility of our hydrogen supply which is critical to our customers along the pipeline.
The pipeline helped us supply spot opportunities as we can move product as needed as well as use the pipe capacity itself to respond more quickly to changes in demand.
We also announced a new long-term hydrogen agreement with OCI Beaumont to supply approximately 25 million standard cubic feet per day of hydrogen from our system to OCI's integrated methanol and ammonia plant in Beaumont Texas.
In addition to these near-term and longer-term volume benefits we also saw improved system efficiency as we can manage the system to optimize the most efficient plants.
In November we announced an agreement to expand our syngas separation unit in Geismar Louisiana to increase the supply of carbon monoxide primarily for BASF's new world-scale formic acid plant in Geismar.
This expansion will also provide additional hydrogen for our Gulf Coast pipeline system.
Please turn to Slide 8 Electronics and Performance Materials.
Segment sales of $549 million were up 3% versus last year driven by the DA Nano acquisition.
Underlying sales were down 1% on flat volumes and 1% lower prices.
Sequentially sales were down 11% on 11% lower volumes.
Versus prior year Electronics sales were flat with the DA Nano acquisition offsetting weaker materials volumes and lower equipment sales.
Sales were down 15% sequentially on weaker seasonal materials volumes and significantly lower equipment sales.
With the lower demand and some increase in competitive pressure electronics materials pricing did see some negative impact but still remained relatively stable.
Silane driven by very weak PV markets continues to be an exception.
Performance Materials sales were up 6% versus last year as we saw strong volume growth across all 3 regions.
Prices were slightly negative but this was offset by lower raw material costs.
Sequentially PMD sales were down 4% on the expected seasonal slowdown.
Operating income of $61 million was down 22% versus prior year and operating margin was down 340 basis points to 11.2%.
Paul discussed the inventory accounting revaluation.
At the segment level we had a negative effect from inventory accounting revaluation this quarter and a positive effect in the prior year.
Excluding this impact from both quarters operating income was down $3 million or 4% and operating margin was down 100 basis points.
x inventory operating income was down primarily driven by the weaker electronic materials demand and higher costs.
Sequentially operating income was down 28% and operating margin was down 260 basis points on the lower volumes and higher costs.
In Electronics we announced another ultra-high purity nitrogen expansion and a further extension of our pipeline in the Tainan Science Park in Taiwan.
This is in addition to the new contract announced in September to expand capacity for UMC's Phase 5 to 8 expansion.
The new expansion will add 2 air separation units to the system that has been successfully serving electronics customers in Tainan for over 15 years.
Air Products also serves electronics customers via pipeline networks in the U.S.
Korea and China.
Now please turn to Slide 9 Equipment and Energy.
Sales of $106 million were up 19% versus prior year primarily on higher project activity across the business.
Sequentially sales were down 16% primarily due to lower ASU project activity.
Operating income of $8 million was up 15% versus prior year on the higher activity.
Sequentially income was down 53% on the lower sales and higher project development costs.
Backlog is up 25% over last year and down 14% versus last quarter as ASU bidding has slowed while LNG project development continues to be strong.
Consistent with our previous outlook we still expect Equipment and Energy to provide a $0.05 tailwind for the full year as we expect improvement from new LNG orders starting in Q2.
Now I'll turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Simon.
Now please turn to Slide 10 and let me provide you a brief summary of our outlook.
From an economic perspective we still expect modest but improving growth in FY '13 with global manufacturing at the low end of our 2% to 4% range.
In the U.S.
inventory de-stocking and fiscal cliff concerns negatively impacted manufacturing in the first quarter.
The pending debt ceiling and spending debates add to uncertainty which depresses hiring and investment and lowers consumer confidence.
Going forward we expect slow but modestly improving growth driven in part by the recovering housing market and the Fed monetary policy.
In any scenario reduced government spending will lower 2013 growth.
So overall for the year we expect U.S./Canada growth to be close to the low end of our 2% to 4% range.
Europe is in a recession now and we are forecasting slow improvement through the rest of the year.
In China and throughout Asia there were some positive signs in manufacturing in Q1 driven by stimulus spending.
We expect to see the benefits of this in the second half of the year.
In electronics industry production is weaker than last year and fab utilization has softened.
We expect this to slowly begin to recover in the second quarter.
Our full year EPS guidance is $5.70 to $5.90 up $0.05 from our previous guidance with the positive impact of the share repurchase partially offset by the slower economic environment going forward.
CapEx is expected to be about $2 billion consistent with the more focused guidance we gave in November.
And our backlog is at $2.8 billion down slightly from last quarter as we brought onstream a number of projects.
As we have said in the past it is not unusual for the backlog to move around quarter-to-quarter.
We still see robust bidding in the oxygen-for-gasification market in China but continue to see decisions being delayed for potential hydrogen and electronics projects.
For Q2 our EPS guidance is $1.34 to $1.39 based on the following factors: On the positive side we expect to see improved volumes in the Electronics and Performance Materials and Equipment and Energy businesses; no inventory revaluation impact; the increasing positive effect of our cost-reduction programs; and a full quarter effect of our Q1 share buyback.
Partially offsetting the sequential improvement Tonnage Gases profits are expected to decline due to seasonally higher maintenance spending and lower volumes as refineries begin taking their annual outages.
We also expect reduced spot sales on the U.S.
Gulf Coast.
The PUI business and the impact of Lunar New Year are also expected to be headwinds.
Now let me wrap up.
Overall Q1 gives us a good start to the year with solid execution in an uncertain economic environment.
We are taking actions to control our own destiny including efficient plant operations cost-reduction programs price improvement and excellent project execution.
We are well positioned to grow in the long term with the size and strength of our backlog over 80% of which is committed to long-term on-site or pipeline contracts.
We have significant leverage on our existing assets to load them as the economy recovers.
And we are focused on our core business and cash priorities.
And finally on behalf of John McGlade and the rest of Air Products I would like to personally thank Paul for all he's done over his 33 years with Air Products especially the last 9 as CFO.
Paul hired me into the company and I have worked either directly for him or in his organization for all of my 22 years with Air Products.
While I have some big shoes to fill I plan to approach my new role with the same integrity transparency and passion that Paul has and to continue to focus on driving long-term profitable growth for Air Products by increasing returns and ensuring capital discipline consistent with our cash priorities.
I enjoyed the opportunity to get out and meet a number of you in December and I look forward to getting out again very soon as we finalize the CFO transition in late February.
Thank you.
And now I'll turn the call over to Gwen to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes 2 questions actually.
On the inventory revaluation in Electronics I know in the past there's been offsets to -- within the corporate line.
Did that occur this time? And am I correct in saying or in understanding that you expect to reverse this as the year goes on? And then just secondly how much of the European $60 million of restructuring did you get? I think you had $40 million left to come there.
I'll take the second Paul if you take the first.
Okay yes.
On the inventory Don there is some offset which occurs in the -- in there but there are impacts which occur in the Merchant area also.
And those -- and that offset is really around what occurs on the LIFO accounting and the bulk of that is offset against the Merchant area for us in this quarter.
So there is a small impact there.
But for the large part the Electronics and Performance Materials segment that flowed directly through to the bottom line in the consolidated results.
And the second question Don -- this is Scott.
In terms of the Europe restructuring we're on track to wrap that up by the end of the second quarter.
And we saw in this quarter about a $0.03 benefit.
And as we take the actions then going forward we expect to have that step up modestly in the second quarter and then to get to a run rate of about $0.05 per quarter $60 million or so on an annualized basis.
So consistent with what we've said in the past we would expect to see in fiscal '13 about a $0.15 favorable impact from the cost-reduction actions in Europe.
And we'll go next to P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about your utilization rates in Merchant business by region? And given some low rates is there any possibility of consolidation of merchant facilities in any region that you can do? Yes.
Great P.J.
good question.
So let me just go over the numbers that we talked about.
So for the U.S./Canada -- and again these are our LOX/LIN utilization rates.
So in the U.S./Canada the low 70s; in the Europe high 70s; and in Asia in the mid-70s.
And I think one of the things that as I know you know in this business we have a very modest distribution radius for product out of these plants perhaps 100 miles.
And so in that environment it gets very difficult to create value just by shutting down capacity.
It's certainly something that we look at on an ongoing basis but it isn't really one of our expectations for one of the big drivers going forward.
We are working hard to bring load to those facilities.
We're doing that in a disciplined manner relative to pricing with our applications expertise and loading up our sales teams.
So as we said that's one of our big opportunities going forward as those assets load up.
Research Division</strong> So I understand that -- sorry go ahead.
P.J.
I think the thing is as Simon said our pricing has been good in most regions here as we go through.
And so we don't think the utilization rate is impacting pricing.
Research Division</strong> No I understand that you don't transport gases in Merchant more than 100 200 miles.
But is there a way you can do piggybacking on on-site projects and then shut down some older merchant facilities? So I think anytime that we have an opportunity to do that P.J.
we would absolutely take a look at that.
To be honest with you in U.S./Canada there's only a modest amount of new ASU on-site opportunities.
So again we look at that every time.
I just -- I guess my point is I don't think that's going to be a huge driver of the growth going forward.
I think more of an opportunity is to leverage the economic recovery that we're expecting to grow the volumes.
Research Division</strong> And then secondly in electronics there was a sequential decline.
How much of that was seasonal? And then you talked about equipment decline can you just talk about how much was equipment versus gases and chemicals? So P.J.
this is Scott.
From a sequential in electronics it's about half between equipment and materials and heavily driven from a materials perspective from seasonality.
We'll go next to Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit more on -- you talked about electronics rebounding in your 2Q or I assume that was your 2Q and not the calendar 2Q.
What gives you the confidence in that at this point? And what signposts should we be looking for to know that that's actually happening? Yes.
It's a good question Vincent thank you.
I think a couple of things there.
First of all obviously we just talked about the seasonal pattern right and we recognize Q1 as typically weak.
We typically see improvement through the year.
So I think to some degree you would expect a typical seasonal pattern.
I think as we talked to some of our customers that's the feedback that they're giving to us.
They wouldn't be surprised to see utilization rates be a little bit soft here but then continue to improve through the back half of the year.
And again as we look at what some of our customers are talking about they're also looking for example I think both Intel and TSMC have pretty robust capital spending expectations for this upcoming year of 2013 which obviously goes to one of the concepts we've been talking about that the big strong players in this industry are the ones who have the ability and the capacity to continue to invest in the new fabs and those are the companies that we're the leading supplier to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a separate follow-up to that.
I believe in the 2Q guidance you gave you were talking about sort of the annual outages in refineries as being a negative for this quarter for your second quarter.
And just help me understand I mean it's obviously -- there's got to be some mismatch between the size of the outages this year and last year and so forth right because otherwise they're annual and there shouldn't really be a comparable issue.
So what's the difference this year versus last year? As far as that's concerned with that Vincent is that in last year and this year the outages are probably about the same from a maintenance standpoint.
We had -- our plants ran better in Q1 of this year than they ran in Q1 of last year.
And so we had some plant issues in Q1 of last year which we talked about at that point in time.
We are over them and so we had a very good first quarter in that.
As you look at this the high point for turnarounds is typically our quarter 2 for the refineries.
There's also turns which occur in quarter 1 and quarter 3.
There's not that many which occur in quarter 4 we think.
So this is typically the high point for the maintenance activities which we would normally expect.
The aberration was more in the prior year than in the current year.
Research Division</strong> And related to your own productivity versus the customer? For last year yes.
And we'll go next to Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> When one reads accounts of Chile there's a sense that electricity prices have really moved up.
Can you give a sense of Indura's margins on a sequential or year-over-year basis and the volume growth pro forma year-over-year? How's that acquisition doing? Jeff this is Scott.
The acquisition is doing very well.
We're very pleased with the business that we've acquired and we've seen all sorts of opportunities.
I'll remind you too that this acquisition was -- we had some cost synergies but it was heavy on -- from a growth perspective.
And in the early days here we've been able to identify several small on-site opportunities in steel and glass and we're pursuing them.
So we are very pleased with the acquisition.
In terms of your question of margin as we've said before to be in the low teens given that the nature of that business is more in the hardgoods.
But we do see sequential growth not only from the markets that we're in but also as I've mentioned from our offerings.
And as we expand and identify more opportunities both from small on-sites as well as in the applications arena we expect to see continued good growth.
So we're very pleased with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then your pension contribution I think was $320 million in the quarter.
Are you...
$230 million.
Research Division</strong> $230 million I misspoke.
I'm sorry.
Are you expecting to contribute under $300 million this year or what's your expectation? Yes.
So -- Scott again Jeff modestly up from the $230 million won't be $300 million $275 million or so for the year.
And we'll take our next question from David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Scott and Paul just on the backlog I know it does move up and down.
But would you expect the backlog at year end to be higher or lower than it was at the end of Q1? I would say -- so this is Scott Dave.
As you mentioned it's lumpy especially as we've got more larger deals China gasification and so forth.
But I would expect it to end the year about where it is now kind of bumping along but moving sideways.
Again a lot of good opportunities that we're out there looking at.
Research Division</strong> And just Europe Scott I know it's been under a lot of scrutiny restructuring and management changes.
Has a corner been turned in Europe? And what's the margin potential in the European Merchant business from where it is today and where can it be in 2 3 years if filings pick up and pricing holds? So from a cost perspective as I mentioned we're running through and almost finalized with the provision.
But I also say that we're focused on additional cost reductions beyond simply people reductions.
We've got a lot of initiatives going on from a supply chain perspective as well as trying to push price.
And as you saw in our results we do have prices up.
So in terms of where could it get overall we're looking at this and trying to make substantial continued improvement recognizing that the economy in the short term and for some time is not going to be a big tailwind.
And so we're going to continue to drive the business and do what we need to do in order to get it profitable both from price and cost.
But hopeful again from a volume perspective through applications and making sure that we're going after the right customers and the right locations to drive margin improvement.
And we'll go next to Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Let me just add my thanks to Paul for all the years you've put in.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Research Division</strong> When you look at the Asia volumes being flat we've seen your competitor come out this morning with bigger numbers there now.
Some of that may be new start-ups.
DuPont yesterday was kind of talking about 8% sales growth in Asia.
To be flat seems like one of the disappointing areas of this quarter.
Can you kind of talk about what you think volumes are doing in Asia and kind of how you're doing relative to the market in Asia? Yes.
Duffy this is Simon.
Good question.
And of course I know that you know one of the big differences is when we talk about this region we're just talking about our Merchant business right and whereas other people are talking about the impact of Asia of their whole company.
So for example if you had large tonnage plants starting up in Asia they'd be included in the other guy's Asia comments but not in ours.
And I know you know that.
But just if I could then focus on what we've seen in Asia couple of different things going on.
We commented that argon has been particularly soft in Asia in our Merchant business.
And you have a dynamic there of some of the steel companies who own their own air separation units.
Sometimes they need a little bit of extra argon.
If they're not running as hard they actually have a little bit of extra argon to put into the marketplace.
So that has impacted our wholesale demand for argon as well as soft photovoltaics market.
Again as we said LOX/LIN volumes have been up x conversions about 2%.
So that's a positive.
Obviously we're working hard to make that number larger.
We've also seen a little bit of softness in our cylinder business in Asia.
And as we commented we've done some things to focus on the higher profitability customers so have done a little bit of business-shedding there as well.
So we do expect to see a pickup in economic activity and volume growth in the back half of our year in Asia particularly in the Merchant business.
And again just as a reminder we have a lot of significant asset investments in the Tonnage business that are expected to come onstream this year as well in Asia.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then the opportunity with the on-site businesses around Indura roughly what are we talking 2 000 4 000 6 000 tons per day? I mean what's the cumulative opportunity over a 2- or 3-year period there look like? Yes.
And Duffy this is Paul.
If you take a look at that the thing which we're looking at are what we would call the small generated gas type of plants.
So typically most of your opportunities there are going to be under 100 tons a day but they turn out to be a good opportunity for us very nice things which we do.
And we are finding a lot of them principally because the business was focused on packaged gas previously.
And so now as we bring our applications expertise into this country we think we're going to be able to sell a number of these plants over the next few years.
And we'll go next to Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess following the sizable share repurchases in the first quarter your net debt's up to about $5.4 billion or 2.2x to 2.3x trailing EBITDA.
I guess 2 quick questions.
First how does that compare at this point to what you would consider optimal leverage? Is there room to take that higher? And related to that did you purchase any additional shares in January? And would you care to venture any thoughts on the likely pace of execution on the remainder of the authorization? If you take a look at our leverage overall right now it's on the high side so -- because we move the share buyback forward with those things for where we would like to run it.
Now as far as buying back shares in January no we haven't.
As far as a buyback in the future -- of this year we would look at this from an opportunity standpoint.
As you can see is that we bought the shares at a low price.
If the stock does drop down we would look at that again.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question if I may on Tonnage.
Can you refresh us on projected start-ups in the March quarter other projects that may be ramping if we're thinking about sequential contributions to growth? I'm sorry yes.
Sorry Kevin.
Yes.
So we've updated our major projects slide in our package and we do have some projects that we expect to come onstream here soon.
So particularly in the second quarter really the Yankuang project in China will come on stream.
In the third quarter we would expect to see PetroChina in China.
That's again very exciting project as it's the first steam methane reformer the first hydrogen plant that's ever been outsourced by a state-owned oil company in China so a great opportunity.
And then we have some electronics projects that are expected to come onstream later in the year.
So that's kind of the framework of how things look for the rest of the year.
And we'll go next to Robert Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask a question on the U.S.
Merchant business.
You guys had taken some lumps previously on the performance there and you mentioned that the new signings were above the prior year and that your lost customers were below prior periods and more normal.
Do you have a net win when it comes to new signings versus lost business? Yes we do.
Yes absolutely Bob.
And I think I would just -- for the quarter that is absolutely the case.
We had a lot more new signings lot more new business coming onstream.
Obviously when you look at the year-on-year comparison right we see some of the business that was lost through the second half of last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe a longer-term question.
As we see shale gas continue to expand in the U.S.
and the promise of a lot more light oil does this diminish the hydrogen business at all? You've always talked about more heavy sour crude slates but it looks like the U.S.
market is maybe moving opposite to that.
So how does that impact your business? As far as that is concerned it depends where that goes.
For right now as we look at this there's still a good amount of heavy crude which comes into the refiners which they process.
And it also gets around what sort of the product mix which they make.
We've talked about this before that as they tend to move more and more to more transportation fuels even a light sweet crude they wind up cracking that further down.
So as the U.S.
market especially the Gulf Coast where we have a large presence turns into more of a market for export that -- and that's going to favor more use of hydrogen and principally the export which is going out is diesel which is the heaviest consumer of hydrogen in the mix.
And we'll go next to John McNulty with Credit Suisse.
Yes.
This is actually Alina Khaykin sitting in for John.
Quick question on the guidance.
I believe you've raised the midpoint by a bit.
So what has changed since last quarter? Is it more restructuring is it the share repurchases or is it faster growth in some of the markets? So this is Scott.
If you look at the impact from the share repurchase roughly $0.10 up from what the previous guidance was.
But then given the economic situation that we're in and the environment that we saw in the first quarter and as we talked about a decelerating momentum through the quarter we've taken that down by about half just given the uncertainty of the economic growth going forward.
And so that's what translates into taking it up by about $0.05.
Okay got it.
And then on Indura how are you progressing towards the $20 million synergy target? And could there be upside from that? As I mentioned before we're progressing very well.
And again the cost synergies are relatively modest driven more from a corporate governance and an oversight and we're on track there.
But really this acquisition was driven by the top line growth synergies that we can bring marrying their local knowledge in the hardgoods business with our application knowledge and on-sites.
And so as I mentioned before very happy with the acquisition.
It's running very well and we look forward to continue to drive top line growth in that new market.
We'll go next to Mike Harrison with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at the Tonnage business how much of that hydrogen spot volume growth do you think is sustainable and sort of driven or supported by the pipeline? And how much of that was more temporary driven by the competitor issues that you referenced? And can you maybe address while you're talking about the pipeline any surprises pleasant or otherwise since the pipeline has been up and running for 4 or 5 months now? Great.
Mike good questions.
So again if we just kind of break down the Tonnage volume growth we said about half of that was from new projects.
So obviously that's sustainable.
The other half was from base business load-up.
And I think of that base business load-up probably half of that was increased volumes in the U.S.
Gulf Coast.
So to be honest with you we call them spot volumes for a reason.
There was an opportunity here where customers' demand exceeded their capacity to get product from somebody else.
And we were extremely pleased that the pipeline enabled us to literally move product from one region to the other support these customers in their time of need and also create a good opportunity for us.
So one of the things we talked about in our sequential guidance going forward is we wouldn't be surprised if we saw a little bit of softening of some of those spot volumes.
But again those are exactly the opportunities and exactly the reason why we invested in the pipeline.
In terms of the pipeline I think things are going very well.
The team's becoming very familiar with that and emphasizing how to best utilize it.
We're getting the efficiency benefits that we expected out of it.
And I would say probably since it's come onstream I would say the volume opportunities have perhaps exceeded our expectations as well.
So things are going well down there.
Research Division</strong> And then just looking at the Merchant business a couple of questions.
One how much of a headwind was helium under U.S./Canada Merchant volumes? And then can you give a little bit more detail on the LAR business in the U.S.
and what steps you had to take in order to alleviate the supply constraints that you were facing? Yes.
So I think as we've said a couple of times in terms of helium but overall as well as in the U.S./Canada it was down in U.S./Canada.
So it has a little bit of an impact on the top line.
I think overall for the company not much of an impact.
And as we said before given the teams out there working very hard to drive price increases it has a very modest bottom line impact.
In terms of argon obviously I think we talked about this at our event in November some examples of where we're worked hard to improve the recovery of argon at certain plants and also improve the purification.
So it's not one single project it's a matter of getting a little bit more argon out of a few different locations.
And again I'd just also point out that we've seen a little bit of demand softening as well.
So argon really I think we would say generally speaking was not a constraint during the quarter.
And we'll go next to Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Jeff Schnell on for Laurence.
Just going back to Europe you mentioned that Europe is in a recession.
But have you seen any signs of a stabilization or conversely are any regions within getting worse? This is Scott.
So we actually saw in the first quarter a deceleration and a bigger impact from the holiday slowdown.
Now early on we're just partially way through January we have seen that turn and we are hopeful that as we get past the holiday slowdown that we see sequential growth not only in the second quarter but then through the rest of the fiscal year.
In our forecast we anticipate that for the full year we get back about even slightly unfavorable overall from a manufacturing output in Europe.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then you mentioned briefly in your prepared remarks but can you talk about which projects and regions you're seeing customers scale back on CapEx? And are you seeing an increased reluctance on behalf of these customers to sign larger contracts given the uncertainty? And so as far as that's concerned we said the gasification area in China is still plowing forward so we're seeing contracts occur there.
Then if we turn to the hydrogen contracts in the U.S.
and around the world and also if we turn to electronics we are seeing customers hold back.
Certainly within the U.S.
investment plans are holding back somewhat because of the uncertainty around tax rules and things like that which are holding back things.
We'll take our next question from Mark Gulley with BGC Financial.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to talk a little bit about what's happening in Algeria.
Is the unrest there hurting your ability to get helium recoveries from the facility there and whether or not you're seeing any pressure on future LNG projects due to political uncertainty in that region? As far as that's concerned Mark we haven't seen an impact on our plants for helium in Algeria.
The place where this occurs is pretty far from our plant with that is concerned.
But it's a situation which we obviously watch and we want to be able to get people and to have the country still work and be able to ship product out.
So we'll watch that.
As far as the impact on future LNG projects I don't think anyone -- I don't think the situation here is going to have a single impact here on people looking at LNG projects.
They know the Middle East is a tough place to operate.
They've operated there for years with these projects so I'd still see projects going forward.
The other thing is that a lot of the development on LNG right now is really occurring in the Australia area and Indonesia area.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly on the structure of the balance sheet and leverage I do applaud your share repurchase plan and that sort of thing.
But if I look at your cash flow statement it appears as if you're having to borrow to pay the dividend that is your free cash flow is not quite supportive of the full dividend payment.
Is that something that would concern you Scott? And how should I think about maybe the potential for future dividend increases if I'm right on my logic? Yes.
Mark I'll let Scott speak on this.
One of the things which you got to realize here is that as we invest capital new capital for growth we do increase our borrowing activity.
So it looks like we are going to borrow to pay a dividend.
In actuality we are leveraging our product -- our projects as they go in.
We make an equity contribution and a debt investment in these things -- for those things.
And so -- and that depends upon the type of project.
Certainly an on-site project which we're seeing a lot of our projects being right now we're putting a lot more debt against those projects for us.
In general I don't see this concerning us going forward as far as the structure of the balance sheet.
But just to build on that obviously the focus going forward is going to be expand margins and bring those projects onstream on time and profitably load the assets and so looking to generate more cash out of the investments that we've made through margin expansion.
And we'll go next to Mike Sison with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Nice start to the year and have fun there Paul.
Thanks Mike.
I will.
Research Division</strong> In terms of Tonnage you had a nice start to the year.
Any changes to the outlook for the contribution for earnings this year? Is it still the same? Is there a potential for upsides a little bit early to tell maybe? Well on Tonnage -- and they have had a good start to the year.
You're right poor thing.
I think towards the top end of the range you're going to look at that as one of the things which is going to drive us there.
So perhaps as we look at the full year that -- and that we have business which is going well and we hope is continue to go well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question in terms of the outlook for silicon growth you were at mid-single digits at the beginning of your fiscal year.
Any changes to that? Maybe give us a feel for how the first quarter went so we can see how that's expected to unfold as the year progresses? So this is Scott.
In general no change but we would expect it to be a little at the bottom end of that range that we gave before.
And we'll take our last question from David Manthey with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could quantify the maintenance impact this quarter.
And just -- is this a factor as you talked about before where it was different last year than it is this year and therefore there's the year-to-year impact as opposed to being significantly higher this quarter? Or was it just higher this quarter for some reason? Yes.
If you take a look at that the impact was about $0.03 a share for us versus the prior year...
Research Division</strong> Right.
I'm sorry it was lower this quarter $0.03 relative to...
In this quarter against the prior year that's right.
And as I said it was the prior year amount of spending which we didn't expect going into the quarter 1 of last year but we had about $0.03 a share which was favorable year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So having said that as we move forward the level we're at now is a more normal level is that what you're saying? No.
I think as we move forward so if we go into quarter 2 right as we look at quarter 2 quarter 2 is going to be down in the Tonnage area because of increased maintenance which comes about by the turnarounds.
And we get -- and not only the cost impact but we also get the volume impact of that flowing through also.
Okay thanks everyone.
Please go to our website to access a replay of this call beginning at 2 p.m.
today.
Thank you very much for joining us and have a great day.
Thank you everyone.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Air Products and Chemicals Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also this telephone conference presentation and the comments made on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
Air Products will be recording this teleconference and may publish all or a portion of the teleconference.
No other recording or redistribution of this teleconference by any other party are permitted without the expressed written permission of Air Products.
Your participation indicates your agreement.
Beginning today's call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Moore you may begin.
Thank you Alicia.
Good morning and welcome to Air Products' Second Quarter Earnings Teleconference.
This is Simon Moore.
I'm pleased to be joined today by John McGlade our CEO; and Scott Crocco our CFO.
After our remarks we'll be pleased to take your questions.
We issued our earnings release this morning.
It is available on our website along with the slides for this teleconference.
Please go to airproducts.com to access the materials.
Instructions for accessing a replay of this call beginning at 2 p.m.
Eastern Time are also available on our website.
Please turn to Slide 2.
As always today's teleconference will contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions.
Please review the information on these slides and at the end of today's earnings release explaining factors that may affect these expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to John.
Thanks Simon.
Before we take you through the details let me make several overview remarks.
While there were some bright spots the second quarter was certainly a challenge given the softening of the global economy.
Our earnings did come within guidance but slower-than-expected economic growth and a weak electronics market resulted in lower volumes than we had anticipated.
We expect this slow growth environment to continue for some time and are no longer anticipating that stronger second half economic improvement as we had originally planned for.
Most importantly we continue to stay focused on actions within our control.
We completed the European restructuring provision that we announced last year on schedule and with the full benefits achieved.
We remain focused on execution and continue to drive improvement through cost discipline and productivity.
As a result we saw a good cost performance again this quarter helping to offset the weaker volume.
Over the long term we are well positioned to grow via our $3 billion project backlog which is over 80% Onsite/Pipeline business with long-term take-or-pay contract terms and we've continued to be successful signing new business.
In February we announced another oxygen order for coal gasification in China for LuAn Mining and just last week another LNG order from PETRONAS in Malaysia.
In our Merchant and Electronics and Performance Materials businesses we have a tremendous opportunity to load our existing assets when the economy does improve and our cash priorities remain unchanged.
Invest in core projects that have good returns; increase the dividend each year which we've done now for 31 consecutive years having announced an 11% increase in March; strive to maintain an A bond rating; and repurchase shares which you saw us do in Q1 for $460 million.
In addition let me assure you we will continue to take decisive actions to improve our operation and deliver value to shareholders regardless of economic condition.
Now let me turn the call over to Scott to review our results.
Thanks John.
Turning to Slide 3.
As we look back at this past quarter the economy came in at the low end of what we anticipated when I provided you with our guidance in January.
March volumes were a disappointment relative to the normal historical uptick we typically see to this month.
Moving around the globe.
In North America we experienced modest growth.
Europe sunk deeper into recession with Southern Europe remaining particularly weak while the Northern continent and Central Europe worsened.
And in Asia there was a lower-than-expected ramp up after the Lunar New Year holiday.
As I'm sure you've heard from other sources the electronics industry has remained soft.
We have seen new fab construction delays and the outlook for silicon processing has been reduced significantly.
MSI forecasts are now flat to down for our fiscal 2013 versus previous forecasts of 4% to 6% growth.
For Air Products both electronics materials and equipment sales were below our expectations.
The pricing environment has held up to date but is increasingly more difficult due to softer volumes.
However we continued to deliver good cost performance.
As a result we delivered EPS within the range provided in January.
With that backdrop let me take you through our overall results.
For the quarter sales of $2.5 billion were 6% higher versus prior year with the Indura and DA Nano acquisitions contributing 6%.
On an underlying basis sales were down 2% due to our previously announced decision to exit the Polyurethane Intermediates or PUI business.
Excluding PUI higher volumes in our Tonnage Gases segment and higher equipment segment sales were offset by lower volumes in our Electronics and Performance Materials and Merchant segments.
Sequentially overall sales declined 3% primarily due to lower volumes in our Tonnage segment as a result of planned customer maintenance outages.
Simon will provide additional segment and geographic details later.
Operating income of $390 million increased 4% versus prior year and increased 5% sequentially.
Our operating margin of 15.7% was down 30 basis points versus prior year primarily on acquisitions and higher pension expense partially offset by better cost performance.
Sequentially our margin improved 120 basis points primarily due to last quarter's inventory revaluation and cost improvement.
Net income and diluted earnings per share were up 3% and 5% respectively versus last year.
Our return on capital employed at 10.9% was lower due to our higher capital spending acquisitions and the lower asset loadings.
Turning to Slide 4.
You can see an overview of the factors that affected the quarter's performance in terms of earnings per share.
Our continuing operations EPS of $1.37 increased $0.06 or 5% versus last year.
Volumes increased EPS by $0.07 including $0.06 from acquisitions.
Pricing energy and raw materials taken together decreased EPS by $0.04 due to higher energy and distribution cost primarily in our Merchant business.
Net cost performance was $0.07 favorable despite a $0.03 unfavorable pension impact.
Base business costs were positive primarily due to the impact of our European cost reduction and improved operating efficiencies.
Also our other income and expense P&amp;L line item typically averages about $10 million to $12 million of income per quarter.
This quarter's results were a bit higher than average as they include a gain of about $0.02 from an asset sale.
Excluded from the volume and cost lines is the net $0.02 unfavorable impact from our decision to exit the PUI business.
Currency translation and foreign exchange taken together were $0.02 unfavorable as we experienced a small FX loss this year compared with a small FX gain last year.
Equity affiliate income contributed $0.01 on a continued strong results from our Mexican affiliate.
Noncontrolling interest was $0.01 lower due to the addition of Indura.
Interest expense was $0.02 higher due to acquisitions and last quarter's share repurchases.
The tax rate was unchanged versus last year.
We now expect our tax rate for the year to come in between 24% and 25% slightly lower than previous guidance.
And finally lower shares outstanding contributed $0.02.
Now for a review of our business segment results I'll turn the call over to Simon.
Thanks Scott.
Please turn to Slide 5 Merchant Gases.
Merchant Gases sales of $1 billion were up 14% versus prior year driven by the Indura acquisition.
Underlying sales were down 1% on 2% lower volumes and 1% positive price.
Volume weakness was most apparent in lower demand in Europe and in helium due to supply limitations globally.
Sales were down 1% sequentially.
Underlying sales were down 1% on flat pricing and 1% lower volumes due to helium and the Lunar New Year in Asia.
Helium production was lower in the U.S.
and Algeria driven by operational challenges with our helium feedstock suppliers.
We expect these issues to improve in our third quarter.
Going forward we expect supply from our Wyoming facility by the end of our fiscal year and further Qatar supply to the industry into early next year.
We are also actively developing additional new sources and expect to be able to make a specific announcement soon.
However we expect supply to remain tight over the next few years until this longer-term capacity can be brought on stream.
Merchant Gases operating income of $168 million was up 10% versus prior year and down 2% sequentially.
Segment operating margin of 16.8% was down 50 basis points compared to last year and essentially flat sequentially.
Versus last year operating income was up on profits from the Indura acquisition and improved productivity including the benefits from our Europe cost reduction programs.
As Scott mentioned we also saw a $0.02 benefit in merchant from an asset sale.
This was partially offset by lower volumes and higher energy and distribution costs that were not fully recovered with price increases.
Overall we continue to be pleased with the performance of the Indura business.
We have delivered on the expected synergies with good cost performance and are seeing growth opportunities in small on-sites for a variety of end markets.
As we expected and said in the past given Indura's business mix their margins are in the low double digits.
As a result for the quarter Indura negatively impacted segment margins by about 80 basis points.
Excluding the Indura impact segment margins were up 30 basis points versus prior year primarily on improved productivity.
Versus prior quarter we did see the impact of lower seasonal volumes in Asia with a slower post-Lunar New Year recovery.
Let's look at the business -- the Merchant business by region please turn to Slide 6.
In U.S./Canada sales were down 1% on 2% lower volumes and 1% higher price.
As I mentioned helium supply remained a challenge this quarter accounting for the negative volume variance.
Liquid oxygen liquid nitrogen volumes were up on strengthened metals processing and primary materials.
Liquid argon volumes were down on lower demand.
Contract signings were solid and lost business was minimal.
LOX/LIN capacity utilization remained in the low 70s.
Pricing continues to be favorable led by helium but overall did not fully recover recent power and distribution cost increases.
We continue to work hard on pricing and you probably saw that we announced a price increase just last week.
In Europe sales were down 5% versus last year on lower volumes across most markets particularly food metals and construction.
Regionally for LOX/LIN while the U.K.
Ireland and Southern Europe continued to decline we did see an even more significant drop-off in the northern continent and Central Europe particularly Poland.
And for packaged gases we saw declines across Europe but particularly in central and southern Europe.
Overall pricing was flat with some pressure on liquid products offset by positive helium pricing.
LOX/LIN plant loadings were in the mid-70s.
The new contract signings were up significantly versus last year as the team leveraged the integration of our liquid bulk and packaged gas sales teams in Europe.
In Asia sales were up 4% versus last year.
Underlying sales were up 2% on flat volumes and 2% higher price.
Currency had a positive 2% effect.
LOX/LIN volumes were up across the region and up mid-single digits in China.
Liquid argon volumes continue to be weak across the region on lower PV and fabrication demand.
Cylinder volume growth was moderated by customer profitability actions and we continue to see good growth in our Microbulk product line.
Pricing was up 2% primarily on helium strength as we are seeing some price pressure in the liquid oxygen and nitrogen business particularly in China.
Plant loadings were made in the mid-70s.
Additional capacity will continue to impact loadings over the next few quarters despite the volume growth and new contract signings for the quarter were the best in years.
Please turn to Slide 7 Tonnage Gases.
Tonnage Gases sales of $809 million were up 3% versus last year on new plant volumes and higher energy passthrough partially offset by lower PUI volumes.
As expected base volumes were relatively flat as plant customer maintenance outages in Europe were mostly offset by stronger U.S.
Gulf Coast volumes.
We are proceeding with the exit of our Polyurethane Intermediates business.
For the quarter PUI sales were down about $50 million versus prior year and operating income was down about $5 million.
For the full year we expect PUI sales to be down about $160 million and operating income to be down about $25 million more than expected due to higher shutdown costs and lower volumes.
For the segment sequentially sales were down 10% on 8% lower volumes ex-PUI.
As expected planned customer maintenance outages and lower spot volumes impacted sales.
Operating income of $123 million was down 2% versus prior year.
Ex-PUI operating income of $117 million was up 3% on stronger new plant volumes and improved plant efficiencies.
Operating income was down 11% sequentially on lower volumes and higher maintenance costs due to the expected outages.
Operating margin of 15.2% was down 80 basis points versus prior year primarily due to bonus timing and the higher energy cost passthrough.
Margin declined 20 basis points sequentially on the lower volumes.
We are pleased to have announced a new long-term agreement with Shanxi Lu'An mining a large provincial state-owned coal mining company.
We will supply over 10 000 tons per day of oxygen as well as nitrogen air and steam to their coal gasification project in Shanxi Province China.
LuAn will use the oxygen to gasify coal and produce diesel fuel.
Including the LuAn project we are now executing 7 projects to supply oxygen for coal gasification in China totaling over 38 000 tons per day all under long-term contracts with take-or-pay terms.
Great success by the team and we continue to see strong bidding activity in this growing market.
We also have seen strong project development activity in the global hydrogen business.
Customer are making decisions and we expect to have more to say on this in the near future.
Please turn to Slide 8 Electronics and Performance Materials.
Segment sales of $549 million were down 3% versus last year with lower base electronics volumes partially offset by the DA Nano acquisition.
Sequentially sales were flat.
Versus prior year electronic sales were down 3% with the DA Nano acquisition partially offsetting lower equipment sales in an overall weaker materials market.
The lower equipment sales are not surprising given the slowdown in new fab CapEx but we do expect this to rebound by the end of the year.
Tonnage continues to show growth with new projects coming on stream.
In the more advanced materials we continue to see customer adoption of our solutions creating growth opportunities even in the weak market.
However for the more mature process materials we are seeing volumes impacted by lower fab utilization and competitive activity impacting both volumes and prices driven by the much lower outlook for the rest of 2013.
Sales were down 5% sequentially primarily on lower equipment sales.
Performance Materials sales were down 3% versus last year on both volume and price impacts.
While the auto market remains consistent we have seen weakness globally in construction industrial coatings and particularly marine coatings.
Prices were down slightly more than costs.
Sequentially PMD sales were up 7% on seasonal improvement particularly in Europe and North America.
Operating income of $78 million was down 9% versus prior year and operating margin was down 100 basis points to 14.1%.
Operating income and margin were impacted by lower volumes and price pressure.
Sequentially operating income was up 26% and operating margin was up 290 basis points primarily due to the inventory revaluation last quarter.
Now please turn to Slide 9 Equipment and Energy.
Sales of $124 million were up 12% versus prior year and up 17% sequentially primarily on higher LNG project activity.
Operating income of $21 million more than doubled prior year and prior quarter on the higher LNG project activity and lower development spending.
This is consistent with the guidance we provided for significant improvement in the business for 2013.
The backlog of $326 million is up 5% over last year and down 16% versus last quarter as new orders in Q2 were modest but bidding activity remains strong.
As an example of the strong LNG activity we just announced a new order with PETRONAS in Malaysia last week to support the expansion of their Bintulu LNG complex.
This is the second order we announced with PETRONAS over the last year following the floating LNG project announced last July.
We would expect additional LNG announcements through the rest of the year.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Scott.
Thanks Simon.
Now please turn to Slide 10 and let me provide you a brief summary of our outlook.
Given the weakness we saw coming out of fiscal Q2 we are tempering our expectations for economic growth in the second half of our fiscal year.
Manufacturing output has slowed globally and we now expect a more muted recovery off this lower base.
As a result we think it is appropriate to reduce our full year EPS guidance to $5.45 to $5.60.
In the U.S.
slower growth in manufacturing output is expected to come in at the low end of our range.
Uncertainty in the economy remains and unresolved fiscal challenges may impact the recovery.
In Europe the recession worsened during Q2 due to widespread austerity programs and high unemployment.
We now expect Europe and particularly the countries where we have higher exposure to so show negative year-over-year growth in manufacturing for FY '13.
In Asia we expect a gradual acceleration in manufacturing growth to continue benefiting from more stimulus spending on infrastructure projects particularly in China and Korea.
And in South America Chilean manufacturing was strong in January but slowed through the rest of the quarter.
We expect the year to be consistent with our original expectations.
Our backlog is back up to $3 billion primarily from the addition of the Lu'An coal project.
We still see a number of outstanding opportunities in the oxygen for coal gasification market in China and in hydrogen projects around the world but continue to see decisions being delayed on electronics projects.
Based on the strong backlog of projects we signed long-term contracts with take-or-pay terms.
CapEx is expected to be about $2 billion this year consistent with our most recent guidance.
And as I mentioned we now expect our tax rate for the year to come in between 24% and 25%.
For Q3 our EPS guidance is $1.33 to $1.38 based on the following factors.
On the positive side we expect to see improved sequential volumes in our Merchant and Performance Material businesses slightly improved economic activity in seasonality as well as improved volumes in our Tonnage Gasses segment due to less planned customer outages.
Partially offsetting the sequential improvement we expect a lower level of activity in our Equipment and Energy segment similar to the level that we saw in fiscal Q1 with an uptick in Q4 a greater impact from the PUI business exit and we expect further headwinds from higher pension settlement costs and lower gains from asset sales.
Now let me turn it over to John.
Thanks Scott.
As I reflect on the first half of fiscal year '13 Air Products delivered earnings growth in a very challenging economic environment where our base volume growth was well below what we had anticipated.
This earnings growth is a result of the actions we have taken to tackle things within our control with a particular focus on reducing costs driving productivity and disciplined project execution.
We also repurchased $460 million in shares in the first half of the year and raised our dividend 11%.
You have seen us take a number of steps to optimize our portfolio over the last year including selling our European Homecare business exiting the PUI business and restructuring our PV market position.
And in light of the continuing slow growth environment we are actively assessing whether there are additional actions we can take that would result in increased value to our shareholders.
In closing I believe Air Products remains well positioned to deliver increased shareholder value.
We have a strong backlog of projects.
We have significant leverage on our existing assets that leave us well positioned for recovery and we remain sharply focused on productivity improving our core businesses and delivering on our cash priorities.
Thank you and now we are happy to take your questions.
Alicia? Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 quick questions.
First given the current outlook can you give a little bit more of a sense on the restructuring in Europe? I mean and how much more you might need to do to see significant margin improvement there if demand doesn't recover? And secondly with the slower demand environment this year does that change the way you think about how much of a backlog-related tailwind you should have next fiscal year because some of the projects that come on stream this year would fully -- would be ramping up with a bit of a lag? Thank you yes.
Laurence this is John.
On your first question as we noted we did complete the restructuring in Europe on schedule and on budget delivering the benefits that we forecasted.
Certainly and my comments in the script are we're going to continue to look across our portfolio as to what the current business environment looks like and we'll make judgments around any additional actions we need to take as we go through our planning cycle this summer and as we link that planning cycle with the business environment we see going forward.
From the standpoint of the backlog impact for next year and then I'll let Scott add some commentary here as well I think we've talked a number of times around the fact that while the general economic environment in a lot of the markets that we operate and particularly impacting say our Merchant and Electronics businesses the bidding activity in sort of the energy and the environmental areas whether it be larger separation fracs for gasification hydrogen LNG continues to remain strong and the majority of those projects are currently in execution and meeting what we would have anticipated to be schedules associated with large complex projects like that.
And just to build this is Scott.
I just want to reinforce that over 80% of our projects and backlog are tied to long-term take-or-pay contracts and so we're not exposed to the general economic uncertainties that we are when we put in merchant capacity.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Then just a very quick clarification on the helium.
The BLM is talking about shifting to market-based pricing supplies.
Would that be neutral for you or negative? Laurence this is Simon.
It's a good question.
There's obviously a lot of dynamics going on in the helium supply.
There's different bills in front of different sections of the government to extend the helium program.
What we believe is the BLM will want to continue to provide helium that will help enable industry as best as it can and we're going to be a key player in that helium business going forward.
At this point it's unclear exactly how that's going to shake out but we think helium will continue to be a good part of Air Products going forward.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Neal Sangani on for Bob.
Just looking to understand how much the firmness in the general outlook for natural gas prices over the quarter would have been a tailwind in the guidance prior to the back half macro headwind? This is Scott.
There really hasn't been any change in our outlook for natural gas in terms of our results or guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the past you've a bit more aggressive with the purchases around the current share price levels.
Is the lower outlook going to change the strategy? Or should we expect a similar case? There's no change to our strategy and our cash priorities just to reemphasize.
We're going to focus primarily and foremost on core projects with good returns focus on raising the dividend and striving to maintain an A rating and then buy back shares.
I will remind folks too that we did do a share repurchase last quarter of about $460 million.
And if I look back over the last 7 years or so we did about $3 billion of share repurchases.
That said at this point in time we're always looking at it I wouldn't see anything on the order of what we did in the first quarter going forward in terms of share repurchase.
Research Division</strong> So I think you reduced your guidance for the year by $0.27.
And if you look at the midpoints -- and so that's about $57 million after tax $76 million pretax and so your margins are roughly 15%.
So what that would imply is something like a $500 million reduction to your self expectations which seems like an awful lot.
So is that really what you're trying to do with your guidance? And of the $76 million in pretax income that should disappear versus your previous expectation where should it disappear from by segment? So the 2 areas -- Jeff this is Scott.
The 2 areas that we've seen the biggest decline is in electronics.
As we talked about previously we had expectations of MSI growth being in the 4% to 6% range now flat to down year-on-year.
And then additionally as we also mentioned in Europe while things haven't been robust there all year we expected a turn for the second half of the year as -- and instead we've continued to see a decline here in the second quarter and so with particular weakness now emerging in Central and Northern Europe.
So the 2 areas that we're going to see the biggest decline are in the electronics area for the materials and the Europe merchant business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's clear enough.
It's funny when you look at TSMC volumes or UMC volumes they looked reasonably good on a monthly basis but it really doesn't come across in your electronics results.
Can you just describe a little bit more precisely why -- it looks like there are winners and losers in the electronics area and how that might affect your overall volumes? Great question Jeff.
And I think it's a reminder that the electronics market is certainly dynamic and while we can talk in general about what's happening to the overall industry and again as Scott has said it looks clear that the forecast for industry growth this year are much below expectations were at the beginning of the year.
You're absolutely right.
In addition within there certain companies have strengths and weaknesses.
The foundries continue to benefit from the idea that folks want to outsource production of chips.
At the same time you see some other companies perhaps that are more tied into PCs that are showing a little bit less growth.
But I think again as we have said before we touch all the key players in this segments.
We're the leading supplier to Samsung Intel and TSMC which we believe over the long term will continue to be the right companies to be with.
They're making the capital investments to drive growth going forward.
And so really the industry again flat to down for the year and that's one of the big reasons why our expectations are below what they were.
Research Division</strong> Could you -- maybe we could triangulate some of the comments in terms of the -- staying within that A rating and considering other strategic actions which sounds like might include further divestitures and then your comments on not being as aggressive mostly likely with share repurchases relative to what we saw last quarter and then just sort of the negative free cash flow year-to-date.
I mean if the economic environment sort of continues as it is and earnings are going to be flat I think for about the third year in a row where does all this settle out from balance sheet perspective and how aggressive do you think you can be? So first let's try to take this from the top and go down.
We've taken a lot of actions over the last number of years both from a portfolio point of view and from a restructuring point of view which I quite frankly feel we've got the right portfolio for success going forward.
Certainly the economic environment hasn't helped us and we made the comment that we have a fairly large amount of leverage on our existing assets in merchant and electronics that we believe will provide benefits as we see slowly recovering economic growth as we look out beyond '13 our fiscal year '13.
And so from that perspective I'm pretty comfortable that we're in the right place.
What I was commenting on is we'll look and we'll calibrate what that economic environment is as we go through our planning process for '14 and make adjustments to -- more to our cost base than to let's say our portfolio of businesses which I did comment on I was comfortable with.
The other point I'd like to make is right now as where the opportunities are in the gasification and then the hydrogen area and that's an area as I mentioned earlier where we do see growth and that will be good solid growth under our tonnage business model for the future and so we're going to continue to pursue those opportunities.
So this is Scott.
So just to build on those comments.
As we've said in the past our focus is on executing the projects that are in the backlog again over 80% of which have take-or-pay terms.
And while we have a terrific opportunity to load the existing assets in our Merchant business and our Electronics business given the economic environment we're not waiting for the economy to come back in order to load them rather we're taking the actions in the areas that we can control to improve the margins as quickly as possible and improve our cash flow going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can I just ask a quick follow-up on -- I don't think you've covered this in the prepared remarks.
The inventory revaluation in Electronics and Performance Materials can you just go through what that was? So yes just to refresh folks back in the end of last year we -- typically during the course of the year we have inventory held at standard when we get to the end of the year and we moved it to actual.
At the beginning of this fiscal year we moved it back to standard.
Typically when you make that move between year end and the new year there's not that big of a movement in terms of the inventory carrying value.
However we've taken actions to reduce our cost both from a supplier perspective as well as bringing in some manufacturing capability in-house.
And so while there was an inventory adjustment down in the first quarter we're going to get that back over the course of the year as we see higher margins.
And so that was just to remind you about a $10 million impact that we saw in the first quarter which did not repeat here in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on oxygen for gasification of coal in China.
If I think about the I guess the 7 large projects that you've won there would you comment on how the aggregate returns would compare to the company average return on capital employed of 10.9% on Slide 3? Is it lower or similar or higher? How should we think about that as those begin to flow through? Kevin yes this is John and then I can let Scott add color to this as well.
Bottom line you know that well that we do risk-adjusted returns that look at the project risk the country risk the cost of debt inflation et cetera.
And when you add all of those together China is going to have an absolute higher hurdle rate if you will than the corporate average and such that while I'm not going to disclose the average returns we feel good about the overall returns of these projects when they achieve their potential to be accretive to the returns of the company.
Recognize that a project like this when you make an investment day 1 takes time for it to grow into its return on capital because if you will because you're putting all the capital out 3 years before you begin to produce any cash flow from the project.
That's right.
So just to build on that.
So there's the whip spending before it starts contributing back to earnings.
And then just to remind folks when you bring it on it would be completely undepreciated.
And so as you go through time depreciation comes down as depreciation comes down you'll see an improvement in the ROC.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
So if I look at it on an IRR basis it sounds like the returns will be higher due to the error [ph] for country risk.
Is that fair? That's a fair statement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up do you think the pace of coal gasification-related oxygen activity in China will be similar the next couple of years or any faster or slower than what we've seen for the last 2 years? So I think what you've seen in say to the latter part of this past year is a slowdown in frankly in approval of some of the projects as China was going through its governmental changes at different levels of leadership and so they slowed things down.
Our view is that the pace of this market will continue at or above sort of if you look over the last several years the trend line rate that you saw there.
It's an absolute key to both their goals around energy independence and frankly environmental benefits by really driving these projects to really typically 1 of 3 output products.
So right to diesel fuel so a clean diesel fuel or to a synthetic natural gas again a more cleaner burning fuel that will be put in pipelines and pushed to the Eastern Seaboard or directly into olefins as a chemical feedstock our building block.
And our assessment of the market is that there's multiple opportunities of the scale and quantity of projects that you've seen if you looked over a trend line of the last several years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final question John if I may.
You've taken action in European health care and PUI.
Are there any businesses remaining in your portfolio that you would consider noncore? So I made a comment earlier and I'll go back to that.
I actually like where the portfolio is today.
I'd like to see more improvement in terms of the underlying profitability of the businesses and I believe that will be there as we see some economic recovery in them because we have gotten a lot of the cost structure right and we've taken a lot of actions on productivity.
But the composition of the portfolio and what I believe either their current or future contributions the value to be are solid.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on Indura.
The hardgoods business at Indura was a big piece of the portfolio.
How is that business holding up? And I know that Indura was not big in Brazil but Brazil sort of drives the Latin American growth.
And with slowdown in Brazil and the rest of Latin America what's the risk to Indura's portfolio? So P.J.
obviously South America or Latin America in general has slowed down some.
It's still growing more robustly than most of the other geographies that we're operating in.
Indura is meeting our expectations across a the broad business.
The area that's probably weaker as we sit here today in Chile in particular is the mining segment and that's obviously a piece of what Indura supplies in more on the equipment side of things than the gases side of things.
The good news on Indura is first it is holding up in terms of what REAR expectations were on costs and our being able to deliver the synergies and then second what we bring to the table with Indura is a broader portfolio of offerings that's allowing us to enter into new market segments if you will from a merchant point of view and into the small on-site and Tonnage businesses that Indura hadn't been focused on historically.
From a Brazil point of view you're correct.
Indura really doesn't operate in Brazil.
I think you know that we have a business in Brazil that Air Products has had for many years and obviously that business has followed the way the Brazilian economy has performed.
And frankly there what we're doing is we've taken a lot of actions around improving our productivity driving down our variable cost of production there and we'll continue to look at what the opportunities are to leverage the significant investment that we now have in a fairly strong #2 position in South America and frankly in some countries the #1 position.
So how do we get the benefits if you will of the Indura position within the geographies they play in with some of the offerings that they have that might make sense in Brazil.
And just to build on John's comments we are very pleased with how the integration is going.
At the beginning of this fiscal year we gave you guidance that year-on-year we would expect to see a $0.10 increase in our earnings per share based off of Indura and a smooth integration in delivering the synergies and we're on track to deliver that.
Research Division</strong> Your overall CapEx spending is still about 2x D&amp;A.
And with the slowdown in growth around the world maybe outside of the U.S.
are you seeing any delays in projects given this -- given sort of lower stimulus spending you talked about in China? Yes I think so.
I think we really have to think about it in 2 buckets P.J.
Certainly from the standpoint of -- and I don't know that we're not unique relative to our competitors.
Certainly from the standpoint of investment in merchant capacity yes there's a slowdown in the investment in merchant capacity.
And also obviously in -- as you've seen in some of the electronic sectors where people have announced not sort of a cancellation of fabs but perhaps a several quarter delay until either they see a stronger market coming back.
More importantly though I think if I go back to the large oxygen for gasification in the hydrogen area they're being driven by different macro dynamics than the underlying economy.
They're being driven either by in China a combination of energy independence and environmental regulations around how they get to cleaner fuels or how they get to substitute fuels and then sort of China plus the global environment cleaner -- the demand for cleaner transportation fuel is continuing to drive hydrogen.
And as Scott mentioned 80% of our backlog is in those 2 product lines fundamentally to support the tonnage business segment and have tonnage type of terms and conditions.
Research Division</strong> And just I want to clarify something that Scott said.
Scott did you say that you saw weakness in Southern Europe now spreading to Central and Northern Europe? Yes we've seen in both Central and Northern Europe.
While there's always been a decline -- we saw an acceleration of decline in those 2 regions here in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> A question -- I apologize you'll have to follow some math here.
But in 2008 you guys did roughly $5 of EPS.
This year on your guidance you'll do mid-point $5.50 or so.
So roughly a $0.50 increase.
But if you look from 2008 to 2012 you spent about $8.5 billion in capital or about $39 a share.
And the way I break that down $15 was for maintenance $24 a share was for growth.
So if you just use simple math and say okay we want a 10% pretax return on that capital at $24 a share that should be about $2.40 a share tax effective that's about $1.80.
So the capital should have grown earnings by about $1.80 a share where we've only grown $0.50.
So can you help me triangulate that missing $1.20 or $1.30? How much of it is my assumptions on returns are wrong? How much of it is maybe the base business that was there in 2008 and significantly smaller now? But it just feels like we're not getting the bang for the buck when we're spending the capital that we should.
So 2 big elements Duffy and I appreciate you providing the math.
I have to look at it after the call.
But the 2 fundamental issues here are as you mentioned the investment that we've made in the base business around the merchant terms and conditions not loading that capacity.
We did not see the downturn coming that has come upon us.
And so as we mentioned before we're taking actions to control our costs for when the economy comes back.
The other element of course is from as we talked about from the backlog fact that we've got $3 billion in that backlog and it is currently not contributing to sales or earnings that's why we need to focus on executing those projects and then bringing them on stream.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then I guess the follow-on question would be even though they're on-site if we don't start to see the earnings increases from capital how long is the rope before we actually start to significantly ratchet it back to capital spending? Well as I said earlier if they are on an on-site basis we do expect that recognize.
We kicked up our capital from a '10 level and '11 level to a much more significant level in '12 and in '13 and these projects have about a 3-year whip frankly from the time that you put them in the capital stack or the backlog until they are brought on stream.
We're constantly asking ourselves the questions around our priorities for cash and looking at whether or not these continue to be consistent with their attractive projects that support the long-term growth.
I think we've demonstrated throughout the last 5 or 6 years as Scott mentioned earlier we make those judgments -- real time's a poor choice of words but we make those judgments as conditions change and move between investing in the business buying $3 billion of shares back and increasing the dividend each of the last 31 years.
And from my perspective the growth opportunities provided they fit their strategy and they meet our return criteria are ultimately going to contribute the value that our shareholders are expecting from us.
LLLP Research Division</strong> John a question on U.S.
merchant.
Your loadings continue to languish here in the low 70s.
I know that post the end of the Air gas bid you put in place a major initiative in mini-bulk and expanded your sales force and I know you talked about increasing signing.
So I'm just wondering where the payoff from this effort is.
Or -- and I guess as a follow-up to that do you need to rationalize some of your U.S.
merchant system? And just wondering if you feel you're disadvantaged by not having a cylinder gas outlet for some of that liquid? So let me start from the back and go forward.
Obviously the calculus of getting back into a Package Gas business was the whole thought process around an integrated gas model.
Therefore more touches to the market through the sales teams as well as more touches to a broader set of vertical sectors or market sectors.
And that's old history.
But if I go more to what we have done I do feel good about the fact that we've added sales forces.
We've added commercial technology resources.
We've been extremely selective on where we would add capacity.
And the new signings in the business have increased year-on-year for the last several years as we've added those resources.
So we're getting a payoff there.
What isn't as readily obvious is that the underlying base business and I don't think this is unique to Air Products has not been as strong as we would have hoped in the recent number of quarters.
And so what you have is you're getting the benefit of the signings they're coming in.
The losses in the business are at typical levels so they haven't moved up significantly at all.
But the underlying economy and when we came into this planning in the year we thought we'd see a 2 to a 4 with a hope that we were going towards 4 in the U.S.
business.
And we're -- quite frankly from an economic there's a general macroeconomic closer to 2 2.5 as we sit here today.
So a lot of words to say yes I'm comfortable that the resource adds are delivering the merit that they were justified on.
I'm not comfortable with the broader underlying business performance in certain sectors.
So think of oilfield services.
Simon may want to add some more color on some of the sectors that are more...
Great great john.
And the lonely thing I was going to just add is Don is of course when we show you the negative 2% volume for U.S./Canada that's across the spectrum of products.
And as we mentioned on the comments that's really driven by the helium supply challenges.
In fact if you take a look at our LOX/LIN business in U.S./Canada it's up modestly versus prior year.
It's also up sequentially.
So as John said we're starting to see the benefit of some of these new contract signings the team is bringing in.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And John a portfolio follow-up.
You haven't talked much about Performance Materials but that's not really a core gases business.
I know it's been attractive financially in the past but won't you think there's a higher value owner of that business out there and that you could use to fund to pay down debt or do something else for shareholders? Well so Don as I mentioned earlier in the call I feel comfortable about the portfolio we have today.
That statement is inclusive of Performance Materials.
Frankly it adds value to the shareholders and I really believe that we're delivering and are operating as a high-value owner of that business today.
Research Division</strong> John Air Products I was curious if you could talk about industrial gas is growing at a multiple GDP maybe 1.3x 1.5x.
Has that multiplied or IP -- has that multiplier compressed over the past few years? I think so that would be -- that's sort of an all-in average if you will.
That's going to really be a function of the maturity level of the economies that you're growing in.
And so if you were to look at areas like Latin America and you were to look at Asia sort of during a trend line time versus some of the blips we have seen in the economic cycle I think that multiple still holds pretty well.
Certainly in the more mature economies of the world it's at the low end of that.
And then if you go into a scenario where you're in Europe where you have an economic decline obviously there's very limited growth there and therefore you're not going to get that.
And so that's what -- you got to aggregate the different economies of the world to come to that.
As well as the drivers.
So as John mentioned before well that's high-level statistic over a long period of time.
There are fundamental drivers that aren't directly correlated with GDP or manufacturing output.
For example coal oxygen for coal gasification driving energy independence in China; hydrogen for cleaner fuels.
Those sorts of drivers or things that are not directly cause and effect to manufacturing output or GDP.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And Scott just on the backlog what was the actual backlog at quarter end? And given the number of projects coming on stream shouldn't that be lower by year end? So $3 billion is where we were at the end of this quarter and it's lumpy.
So as projects come in and come out it might be -- I don't see a substantial change by year end maybe down a little bit as we process through some of the projects in there.
But also of course depends on the wins and we feel good about some opportunities to what we're pursuing as well.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned some LOX/LIN pricing pressure in both Europe and Asia.
I was wondering if you could maybe give a little bit more color around what's driving that could it worsen? And maybe just talking in general terms about LOX/LIN supply and demand dynamics in the competitive environment that you're seeing across Asia Europe and North America? Yes good question Mike.
And I think it's important to frame that right.
So what we're not saying is that we've seen a step change or anything like that in competitive price pressure.
But I think as you look at the different regions particularly if you look at the region like Asia there's clearly some extra capacity in the ground for the industry right now.
So I think what we're just trying to help you appreciate is we are seeing a slight increase in competitive pressure.
I would say you tend to see that more on new business.
So it's not so much that we are seeing competitive pressure on existing business but new business growth is eagerly looked for by most of the companies.
So that's probably the case in Asia.
Again in Europe we're not signaling any step change here but a little bit more pressure on the LOX/LIN.
As we said we have -- the team is doing a great job on new contact signings and traditionally those do come out at slightly lower price than the base business.
In North America we talked about we are getting positive price.
You saw the price increase announcement that we put out last week.
We believe that that makes sense and we can continue to earn more price increases recognizing that we have seen power and distribution cost increases as well.
Research Division</strong> And can you talk in a little bit more detail about some of the higher costs you're seeing that's driving you to push a little bit harder on the merchant pricing? Are those just U.S.
costs? And I guess as you look out a couple of quarters are you still going to be playing catch-up on cost or do you think you should be covered if you get the traction that you're looking for? Well it's a good question.
And I think you appreciate that while we put that price increase out and certainty that triggers the discussion with our customers really our pricing decisions are made on a customer-by-customer basis.
So we take a good hard look at the economics and the profitability of a customer and make a decision about what we want to do from a price standpoint.
Again I would say primarily in the U.S.
which is what the price increase announcement was referring to again as I said it was really power and distribution costs that we'll be hoping to catch up on.
Research Division</strong> And sticking with the North American merchant market can you talk a little bit about how volumes were trending during the quarter? It sounds like if we sort of exclude what's going on with helium and just look at LOX/LIN that net-net it was flat it was maybe slightly up during the quarter year-on-year.
Presumably January was pretty strong and February weakened what have you been seeing over the last 2 months or so? Well it's a good question.
And again as we said overall for the quarter we were up slightly.
I don't think we saw anything significantly different as he went through the 3 months of the quarter.
So it was fairly consistent relative to last year.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And last question is just on the Tonnage business in the hydrogen spot sales that were pretty strong last quarter.
You didn't expect those to be sustainable into this quarter.
Can you just talk a little bit about what spot activity look like and in particular how the Gulf Coast pipeline was operating during Q2? So I think from a strategic point of view that investment has demonstrated its worth in the first couple of quarters that it's been operating whether it be from the standpoint of the spot volumes the efficiencies and the productivity or cost gains that we can get.
The biggest issue probably in Q2 was a number of significant turnarounds of our customers facilities combined with a couple of unexpected outages at 2 important customers that gave frankly the whole opportunity to sell more hydrogen less of an opportunity.
I didn't quite phrase that right but you had less of an opportunity because you had some of the biggest sources or users some of the biggest customers down either because of scheduled turnarounds or unscheduled turnarounds.
But if I were to step back and say from a strategic point of view has that created competitive -- a differentiated competitive position for us? Absolutely.
And does it give us the opportunity to continue to drive productivity efficiency and spot sales? Also absolutely.
Research Division</strong> In terms of your outlook for Tonnage new projects coming in this year I think it was $0.25 to $0.30.
Is that the same and just curious of how much of that came in the first half? And I would imagine the remaining is pretty visible to you.
Yes Mike this is Scott.
So we do see it still in that range probably with some of the projects that have been deferred by a quarter or so maybe trending towards the low end of that range but still in that range.
And I would say while we've seen some of it that's going to be more towards the back half of the year as opposed to the first half.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then your outlook for Merchant for the second half of the year you sort of noted that would be better in the third versus second or sequential basis.
But will you be able to generate some volume growth? Is that the assumption for the second half? Or is it still going to be kind of tough to do that in this environment? Well it is.
So we are assuming that -- recall that in the first half of the year there's more holidays.
You've got Christmas in Q1.
You've got Lunar New Year in the second quarter.
So as we move into the second half of the year in general we have a stronger Q3 and Q4 let's call it seasonality.
And then on top of it we're also anticipating a sequentially improving economic environment both of which will drive volume increases as well as the impacts from our new signings coming on stream.
Yes this is John.
Just following up with a very quick wrap-up.
I wanted to just make the points again that we do have a strong backlog of projects with numerous opportunities for growth in those projects.
We have significant leverage on our existing assets that leave us well positioned for a recovery and we remain sharply focused on productivity improving our core businesses and delivering on our cash priorities.
You'll have the opportunity to go to our website for a replay of this call beginning at 2 p.m.
today.
And I'd like to just thank you on behalf of the management team for joining us in having a great day.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to Air Products and Chemicals' Third Quarter Earnings Release Call.
[Operator Instructions] This telephone conference presentation and the comments made on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
Air Products will be recording this teleconference and may publish all or a portion of the teleconference.
No other recording or redistribution of this telephone conference by any other party are permitted without the express written permission of Air Products.
Your participation indicates your agreement.
Beginning today's call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Moore you may begin.
[Audio Gap] welcome to Air Products' third quarter earnings teleconference.
This is Simon Moore.
I'm pleased to be joined today by John McGlade our CEO; and Scott Crocco our CFO.
After our remarks we'll be pleased to take your questions.
We issued our earnings release this morning.
It is available on our website along with the slides for this teleconference.
Please go to airproducts.com to access the materials.
Instructions for accessing the replay of this call beginning at 2 p.m.
Eastern Time are also available on our website.
Please turn to Slide 2.
As always today's teleconference will contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions.
Please review the information on these slides and at the end of today's earnings release explaining factors that may affect these expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to John.
Thanks Simon and good morning.
Before we take you through the details of the quarter I would like to make a few comments.
While we did see signs of improvement the quarter generally continued the pattern of weak economic growth and a soft electronics market.
Despite this our earnings did come in above the midpoint of our range.
Our underlying volumes were flat versus prior year excluding the impact of our decision to exit the Polyurethane Intermediates business.
As we said last quarter we expect this slow growth environment to continue for some time.
Most importantly we continue to stay focused on actions within our control.
Last year's European restructuring is complete and delivering the full $60 million per year run rate benefit we expected.
The integration of our Indura acquisition is proceeding as planned.
And while early the initial results of our EPCO acquisition announced last quarter are encouraging.
Through the quarter we remain focused on execution and continue to drive improvement through cost discipline and productivity.
Further we are confident our $3 billion project backlog which is over 80% on-site/pipeline business with long-term take-or-pay contract terms will drive earnings growth into the future.
In our Merchant and Electronics and Performance Materials businesses we are taking proactive steps to continue to improve the performance of the business today and we see significant opportunity when the economy improves to load our existing assets at high incremental margins.
As I mentioned on last quarter's call we are actively assessing additional actions we can take that would result in improved margins and returns and increase value to our shareholders.
That process is ongoing and we are making good progress.
As a result of these new actions we expect to take a charge of approximately $100 million to $150 million pretax or $0.30 to $0.50 per share in our fiscal Q4 with savings beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year '14.
Once fully implemented we expect the savings to be of the same order of magnitude as the $60 million per year benefit we achieved through the actions announced in 2012.
Our plan is focused on improving our cost position in those regions and businesses that are facing the greatest challenges from slower market growth.
We will have more specifics to share with you about this on or before next quarter's earnings call.
I want to be clear that these cost actions do not mean our assessment is completed.
We are continuing to actively review additional opportunities available to us to further improve our operations and increase shareholder value and we'll keep you updated on our progress.
Finally our cash priorities remain unchanged: invest in our businesses at returns that create increasing shareholder value; increase our dividend each year which we've now done for 31 consecutive years; strive to maintain an A bond rating; and repurchase shares.
Now let me turn the call over to Scott to review our results.
Thanks John.
Please turn to Slide 3.
As we look back at this past quarter manufacturing growth was weaker than expected when we developed our prior guidance.
As a result while we did see a pickup in our volumes versus the previous quarter the improvement was modest relative to the seasonal uptick we typically see in this quarter.
Let me provide you a few comments around what we are seeing.
In North America we continue to experience modest growth as the economy decelerates due to the impacts of higher taxes from the fiscal cliff and sequestration spending cuts.
In Europe the economy is worse than we expected and continues to contract versus last year despite some weak sequential growth during the quarter.
In Asia China continues to grow below trend line as the new government policy is focused on reforms in addition to growth.
And the slower growth in China and the developed markets is impacting other emerging economies in Asia and South America.
The electronics industry has remained soft with new fab construction delays and the outlook for silicon processing remains below last year.
Non-residential construction did not pick up during the quarter as we had expected and this has impacted our Performance Materials volumes.
As I mentioned last quarter the LOX/LIN pricing environment in Merchant has become more difficult due to softer volumes particularly in Europe and Asia thereby impacting our ability to completely recover variable cost increases.
While pricing was stable in North America we were not able to fully recover power cost increases.
Despite these challenges and as John mentioned we did deliver EPS above the midpoint of the guidance we provided in April.
Let me now take you through our overall results.
For the quarter sales of $2.5 billion were 9% higher versus prior year with acquisitions contributing 6% and energy and raw material pass-through adding 5%.
On an underlying basis sales were down 2% due to our previously announced decision to exit the Polyurethane Intermediates or PUI business.
Excluding PUI higher volumes in our Merchant Gases and Equipment businesses were offset by lower volumes in our Electronics business.
Sequentially overall sales increased 3% primarily due to seasonally stronger volumes in our Merchant and Performance Materials businesses.
Simon will provide additional segment and geographic detail shortly.
Operating income of $383 million decreased 3% versus prior year and 2% sequentially.
Our operating margin of 15% was down 200 basis points versus prior year due to higher pension costs higher energy pass-through and the underrecovery of increased variable costs primarily in the Merchant business.
Each of these had about a 50-basis-point impact on margin.
And consistent with past quarters the Indura acquisition has about a 20-basis-point dilutive impact.
Sequentially our margin declined 70 basis point primarily due to pension settlements and higher merchant costs.
Net income and diluted earnings per share were down 5% and 4% respectively versus last year.
Our return on capital employed of 10.5% was lower due to an increase in our capital in part due to the Indura acquisition.
Turning to Slide 4.
You can see an overview of the factors that affected the quarter's performance in terms of earnings per share.
Our continuing operations EPS of $1.36 decreased by $0.05 or 4% versus last year.
Volumes increased EPS by $0.10 including $0.06 from Indura.
Pricing energy and raw materials taken together decreased EPS by $0.05 due primarily to higher power costs in our Merchant business.
Net cost performance was $0.06 unfavorable including a $0.05 unfavorable pension impact.
Our productivity about offset inflation and higher planned maintenance.
Excluded from the volume and cost lines is the net $0.04 unfavorable impact from our decision to exit the PUI business.
We saw no impact from currency translation and foreign-exchange year-on-year.
Equity affiliate income contributed $0.01 and noncontrolling interest was $0.01 greater due to the addition of Indura.
Interest expense was $0.03 higher due to increased debt.
Our tax rate was 24% slightly lower than last year and contributed $0.01.
And lastly lower shares outstanding as a result of our $460 million share repurchase in Q1 contributed $0.02.
Now for a review of our business segment results I'll turn the call over to Simon.
Thanks Scott.
Please turn to Slide 5 Merchant Gases.
Merchant Gases' sales of just over $1 billion were up 18% over last year driven by stronger volumes and the Indura acquisition.
Underlying sales were up 2% on 2% higher volumes and flat pricing.
Liquid oxygen nitrogen and argon volumes were up in all regions partially offset by lower helium volumes due to supply challenges and packaged gases demand weakness in Europe.
Sales were up 3% sequentially on 4% stronger volumes flat pricing and a negative 1% impact from currency.
Volumes were notably stronger in Asia rebounding from the Lunar New Year slowdown in the prior quarter.
Helium volume was below our expectations and was down versus prior year driven by limited availability from our helium feedstock suppliers particularly in the U.S.
We expect helium to remain relatively tight over the next few years until some of the longer-term sources we are developing come on stream.
We do expect a slight improvement in Q4 and more into FY '14 as we get product from our Wyoming facility and additional Middle Eastern supply helps the industry.
We are also actively developing additional new sources and expect to make a specific announcement soon.
Merchant Gases' operating income of $165 million was flat versus prior year and down 2% sequentially.
Segment operating margin of 16% was down 280 basis points compared to last year and down 80 basis points sequentially.
Versus last year operating income was up on profit from the Indura acquisition and the higher volumes but was offset by higher pension costs and higher power costs that were not fully recovered with price increases.
Sequentially operating income was down on higher power maintenance and other operating costs.
Overall the Indura business continues to operate well.
We have delivered on the expected synergies with good cost performance saw improved margins this quarter and are seeing growth opportunities in a variety of end markets.
We announced the new plant and the expansion of a second plant earlier this quarter.
As we expected and said in the past given Indura's business mix their margins are in the low double-digits.
As a result for the quarter Indura negatively impacted segment margins by about 50 basis points.
Margins were also negatively impacted by increased pension costs and higher power costs that were not recovered in the marketplace as pricing was flat overall.
Let's review the Merchant business by region.
Please turn to Slide 6.
In U.S./Canada sales were up 6% on 2% higher volumes and 4% higher pricing.
Liquid oxygen and liquid nitrogen volumes were up 5% on strength in the oilfield services metals processing and petrochemical markets.
The strong LOX/LIN volume performance reflects the benefit of our recent robust contract signings coming onstream.
Liquid argon volumes were also up but helium volumes were down due to supply limitations.
We had our best quarter so far this year for new contract signings and lost business was below last year.
LOX/LIN capacity utilization is in the low to mid-70s.
Although overall pricing was positive this was primarily due to helium and the contractual recovery of higher natural gas prices in liquid hydrogen.
LOX/LIN prices were down slightly and given the increase in power costs this had a negative effect on margin.
We announced earlier this quarter the acquisition of EPCO the largest independent liquid CO2 company in the U.S.
Liquid CO2 is a great complement to the rest of our liquid bulk offerings and improves Air Products' supply to those customers who use multiple products in key markets such as food freezing oilfield services pharmaceutical and metal fabrication.
The integration is going well.
In Europe sales were down 2% versus last year on 2% lower volumes and 1% lower pricing partially offset by a 1% increase from currency.
LOX/LIN volumes were slightly positive helped by wholesale volumes but underlying end-market demand remains weak particularly in metals glass and cement and food.
Helium volumes were down on supply limitations while cylinder volumes were down throughout Europe particularly in Central and Southern Europe and U.K./Ireland.
Overall pricing was down 1% with positive helium pricing partially offsetting negative LOX/LIN pricing.
The LOX/LIN price decline was driven by both lower price and the mix effect from the increased wholesale volumes.
New contract signings were comparable to last year but down relative to the last few quarters and LOX/LIN plant routings remain in the mid-70s.
We have fully completed the cost savings program announced last year and are seeing the savings in the P&amp;L.
In Asia sales were down 1% versus last year on flat volumes 2% lower prices and a positive 1% currency impact.
LOX/LIN volumes were up across the region and up mid-single digits in China both x conversions.
Liquid argon volumes showed improvement after a few quarters of weakness and helium was down on supply limitations.
Cylinder volume growth was moderated by customer profitability actions and conversions and we continue to see good growth in our Microbulk product line.
Pricing was down in the liquid oxygen nitrogen and argon business particularly in China.
Power costs were up negatively impacting margins.
Plant loadings remain in the mid-70s.
Capacity additions will continue to impact loadings despite volume growth as we bring on projects under construction.
And new contract signings were stronger than last quarter which have been the best in years.
Please turn to Slide 7 Tonnage Gases.
Tonnage Gases' sales of $846 million were up 10% versus last year on higher energy pass-through partially offset by lower PUI volumes.
Base volumes are relatively flat as U.S.
Gulf Coast customer maintenance outages and 2 steel customer outages offset fewer customer outages in Europe.
The exit of our PUI business by January 2014 is proceeding as we expected.
For the quarter PUI sales were down about $50 million versus prior year and operating income was down over $10 million.
Our expectations for the full year haven't changed.
We expect PUI sales to be down about $160 million and operating income to be down about $25 million.
For the segment sequential sales were up 5% on slightly higher volumes x PUI and higher energy pass-through.
Operating income of $120 million was down 11% versus prior year.
X PUI operating income of $118 million was down 2% on higher planned outage maintenance costs.
Operating income was down 3% sequentially.
X PUI operating income was flat as lower bonus payment timing was offset by lower overhead costs.
Operating margin of 14.2% was down 330 basis points versus prior year and down 100 basis points sequentially on the lower operating income and higher energy cost pass-through.
As we said last quarter we continue to see strong project development activity in the global hydrogen business.
Customers are making decisions and we expect to have project announcements in the near future.
Please turn to Slide 8 Electronics and Performance Materials.
Segment sales of $566 million were down 6% versus last year with volumes down 5% and pricing down 1%.
Sequentially sales were up 3% on 4% higher volumes partially offset by a negative 1% currency impact.
Versus prior year electronic sales were down 11% with significantly lower equipment sales and weaker processed materials somewhat offset by new on-site projects.
The lower equipment sales are due to the slowdown in new fab CapEx but we do expect equipment sales to rebound next quarter.
Processed materials was impacted by lower fab utilization PV market weakness and competitive activity affecting both volume and price.
Sales were up 1% sequentially a modest increase below our expectations based on historical seasonal patterns with improved materials volume somewhat offset by the negative currency impact.
Performance Materials' sales were down 1% versus last year as higher volumes were offset by lower prices.
Autos and the U.S.
housing market continue to be positive while non-residential construction was weaker than we expected and marine coatings continue to be weak.
Sequentially PMD sales were up 5% on improvement across Asia Europe and North America.
However this growth was below our expectations.
Operating income of $87 million was down 4% versus prior year on the lower electronics volumes and the combination of lower prices and product mix in PMD.
Operating margin was up 30 basis points to 15.3% on mix primarily in the electronics equipment business.
Sequentially operating income was up 12% and operating margin was up 120 basis points primarily due to the higher electronics materials and PMD volumes.
Now please turn to Slide 9 Equipment and Energy.
Sales of $104 million were up 9% versus prior year primarily on higher LNG project activity and down 16% sequentially on lower LNG and ASU activity.
Operating income of $16 million was up 63% over prior year on the higher LNG project activity and lower development spending.
Operating income was down 22% versus prior quarter on the lower project activity.
The backlog of $327 million is down 25% from last year and unchanged versus last quarter as new orders were modest.
During the quarter we were pleased to announce our first major LNG order in the U.S.
for Dominion's Cove Point Maryland LNG export terminal designed to produce over 5 million tons per year of LNG when operational in 2017.
LNG development activity remains strong and we expect to have additional announcements soon.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Scott.
Thanks Simon.
Now please turn to Slide 10 and let me provide you a brief summary of our outlook.
Given the weaker-than-expected conditions we saw in Q3 we remain cautious on our expectations for near-term economic growth.
In the U.S.
growth in manufacturing output is expected to come in at the low end of our range.
Uncertainty in the economy remains and unresolved fiscal challenges and diminished global demand are likely to continue to impact the pace of the recovery.
In Europe FY '13 will show negative year-over-year growth in manufacturing below our expectations.
We are hopeful that we are approaching the bottom and anticipate sequential growth going forward.
In Asia we expect a gradual acceleration in manufacturing growth to continue particularly in China.
However the recent government focus in China on reform is expected to temper growth going forward.
And in South America we expect the year to be at the low end of our original expectations.
Our backlog remains robust about $3 billion including a few projects that have not yet been announced.
We still see a number of opportunities in oxygen for coal gasification in China and in hydrogen projects around the world.
CapEx is expected to be about $2 billion this year consistent with our most recent guidance.
For Q4 our EPS guidance is $1.44 to $1.50 based on the following factors: on the positive side we expect to see improved sequential volumes in Merchant; higher volumes and lower maintenance and tonnage following a number of customer outages this past quarter; less of an impact from the PUI business; and Equipment and Energy results should show some sequential improvement as well.
A partial offset is expected from a higher share count.
This results in our full year EPS guidance range being $5.47 to $5.53 within the range we shared with you last quarter despite the slower economy.
Now let me turn it back to John to wrap up.
Thanks Scott.
We delivered earnings results within our commitments for the quarter despite the more modest economic activity.
This earnings performance is a result of us taking decisive actions to manage what is within our control with a particular focus on reducing costs driving productivity and disciplined project execution.
As I said earlier we are actively assessing additional actions we can take that would result in improved margins and returns and increase value to our shareholders.
The process is ongoing.
We are making good progress and as a result expect to take a charge in our fiscal Q4.
Our plan is focused on improving our cost position in those regions and businesses that are facing the greatest challenges from slower market growth.
We will have more specifics to share with you about this on or before next quarter's earnings call.
And we continue to actively review additional opportunities available to us to further improve our operations and increase shareholder value.
I believe our focus on increasing shareholder value remains unwavering.
We are executing well on our strong backlog of projects that will drive earnings and cash flow growth as they come online.
We have significant leverage in our existing assets that leaves us well positioned for a recovery and we remain focused on productivity improving our core businesses and delivering on our cash priorities.
Thank you.
And now we are happy to turn your questions -- turn to your questions.
Jessica? [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Robert Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One power costs continue to be an issue you guys talk about.
And I'm just curious is there anything that's changed about the time it takes you to get through power increases? And what regions did you see the greatest inflation in power? Yes Bob good question.
So certainly there you are acknowledging that there is a lag delay in recovering the power costs and I think we really saw the power cost impact.
We saw it primarily in North America certainly with the increase in natural gas costs and that significantly impacting power costs where gas is on the margin for power producers.
We also saw increased power costs in Asia.
And I guess it's important to note that we did see these power costs increase.
At the same time while we wouldn't have been expecting to recover all of that in price this quarter we are also seeing some pressure on the liquid oxygen liquid nitrogen pricing as well.
Research Division</strong> And then would there be a similar benefit from the natural gas in your Tonnage business? I know when the business was struggling that was certainly a factor in margin compression.
So have you not seen any symmetric benefit as gas has gone back up here to the $3.70 range? No Bob.
We've seen it -- and consistent with the rough rules of thumb we shared both in terms of the impact on sales and operating income we have seen that in the Tonnage business.
We'll go next to David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just to get on the LOX/LIN pricing pressure anything changed fundamentals in the market in terms of increasing competitive intensity that's coming forth right now? So I think if we're talking about -- I made a comment on the LOX/LIN pricing.
Perhaps -- John you want to comment on kind of the broader competitive dynamic particularly on the big projects? Certainly on the larger projects that -- we still see very very good bidding activity.
We've been quite successful.
We mentioned the fact that we've had about a $3 billion project backlog when you consider projects that are in execution and a few that we'll announce shortly.
In my mind in this business it's always been about where you have your skills your competitive differentiation.
And to be clear and I think I've said this many times there's no strategic project when you're making a $100 million bet or more on a long-term take-or-pay contract.
You really have to earn the return expectations that are accretive to the strategy of the business and the corporation or you don't take it.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly on China given the slowing growth in that region have you seen any slowing of bidding activity in that region on new projects? Yes David a couple of points.
Really China is really a tale about 2 stories right now in the context of the slowing Merchant business although as Simon noted it's starting to improve a little is really a function of decisions made in China to slow down the sort of manufacturing-driven economy in favor of urbanization in favor of consumer opportunities et cetera.
The projects that we're pursuing -- and the answer specifically to your question is we have not seen a slowdown once the new government had gotten in place.
For a couple of quarters there as the government transition was happening projects weren't getting approved at the national or the provincial level until they understood where the new government is.
But frankly the policies of the new government whether they'd be around the energy policy of self-sufficiency around energy and feedstocks or environmental policies has really put a pretty strong focus on opportunity.
And so we see the bidding continuing at levels now that it was say before the government changed.
And one of the hidden opportunities in this new government's focus frankly is their real drive to stronger environmental standards particularly around transportation fuels in and around the large urban cities we believe is going to start generating a hydrogen opportunity that's kind of a new opportunity in China.
We're executing a couple of hydrogen plants as we speak there but we see more of that opportunity coming.
We'll go next to Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes 2 questions John on these additional actions you're taking to enhance the margin.
Is this just going to be cost-driven? Are there any further portfolio moves like your exit from PUI? And then secondly can you just give us the progression of the backlog? What projects are starting up in the next 3 to 6 months? And I know in the past you'd talked about a $0.20 $0.25 EPS benefit from new projects this year.
Is that still the number? And what would you expect that number to be in fiscal '14? Yes Don.
Let me take the first part and I'll look to Scott on the second part if you don't mind.
Look what we're looking at is really overhead and asset but not business adjustments to really reflect sort of our current and future view of where the economic growth of the world is going.
I think in the last call I was pretty clear that we like our portfolio as it is.
I think good companies continually do assessments of their portfolios asking the questions around "Are you the high-value owner or not?" And as I sit here today I'll go back to my comments last quarter and my comments a moment ago that I like the quality of the portfolio we have but that we will continue to focus to improve the underlying margins and returns of those assets.
In terms of your second question Don this is Scott the $0.25 we would expect to see for FY '13 is still our number.
Recognize that there's been some adjustments in terms of the timing.
We have not seen any project cancellations.
Obviously with large projects delays are not uncommon.
But for the year we would expect to see earnings per share year-on-year growth of $0.25 from new projects coming onstream.
And while we haven't yet developed our guidance for next year as we work through the backlog we would expect a commensurate amount next year as well as we bring onstream those projects in backlog.
We'll go next to P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Research Division</strong> John you guys have been aggressive in bidding for coal-to-gas projects in China.
These are much bigger ASUs so presumably risk is much higher as well.
So how do you make sure you have the right customers? And can you cite the risk for us on these projects? Sure.
That's a great question P.J.
And maybe if I go back to when I was in the Tonnage business here in the early 90s and we began looking at hydrogen for refineries you got a similar set of questions.
And the way we looked at that in terms of our own view of risk was really to do pretty robust assessments of the economics of that particular refinery in that case or this particular gasification project in China.
And what I'm really trying to say is will that project one with the economics that meet the needs of the energy costs or the feedstock costs that they're producing as opposed to who the ownership of that project is.
And the reason we started doing that if you will back in the hydrogen days is you were having a lot of refineries bought by unknown entities.
They weren't multinational oil companies operating them anymore.
So it's really critical to get an assessment of that project's economics in the context of the marketplace that they operate in.
We do the same on these projects in China.
And frankly we've passed on quite a number of them where we didn't even place bids if we didn't feel either the end product they were going into.
So the end products ranged from methanol to synthetic natural gas to chemical building blocks and we've passed on frankly a lot of the projects that we're in in areas that we felt long-term the economics weren't sustainable.
Many of the projects -- most of the projects that we're involved in now and most of the new projects are really in the coal to liquids and the synthetic natural gas and the economics the scale we believe are competitive with alternative energy sources or feedstock sources in China.
But rest assured it's a question that I ask the team long before we've submitted a bid as to whether or not we should deploy our resources on a particular project.
We do earn as we've talked many times before higher risk-adjusted returns because of the nature of cost of debt and equity and country risk factors and all of the things that you would expect when you're not operating in other geographies.
As you know we adjust that by the geographies we operate in and we do ensure that we get a high-quality take-or-pay on-site contract to underpin these projects.
Research Division</strong> And just on the project backlog I think you mentioned your $3 billion backlog.
Do you believe that the backlog has peaked? And where do you see CapEx going? Or do you see CapEx declining over the next 2 or 3 years? So P.J.
this is Scott.
So as you mentioned we've got a $3 billion backlog currently and recognize that's going to move around especially with these projects being fairly large.
We would expect for the foreseeable future going forward that the backlog would remain roughly at $3 billion.
And in terms of capital spending this year we said $2 billion and we think that that's probably going to be about the range where we come in next year as well about $2 billion CapEx.
We'll go next to Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A question for you on returns.
John on Slide 16 you were kind enough to give us the time series of returns on capital employed in your appendix and I guess if I exclude items it looks like we're at a multi-year low here.
But based on your instantaneous calculation fairly flat over the last 3 quarters.
So my question would be when you take into account the restructuring efforts you have and the new projects that will be flowing through your financials what is your outlook for returns from here? Do you think we're near bottom? So one of the things that obviously has depressed the returns is if you think back over the last maybe 18 months to 2 years our CapEx has picked up both because of the organic opportunities that we have in the marketplace so hydrogen large ASUs as well as the Indura acquisition.
And you've got to grow into that quite frankly.
And the way we calculate that return which is a rolling 5-quarter or 4-quarter average you begin to feel the impact of that gradually over sort of the next year to 1.5 years going forward.
As Scott mentioned a moment ago with CapEx and bidding activity sort of in the range minus the acquisitions that we have we should grow into that if you will.
And then the combination of the actions we're taking to drive the performance in the business the addition of the new project backlog to the P&amp;L now as they come on stream and some continued gradual economic recovery one I would expect returns to improve; and two they need to return -- improve.
And let me turn it over to Scott and I'm sure he can provide a little bit more color on that.
Right.
So just to build on what John said Kevin so I would see the year coming in on a low 10.
As John mentioned we're working through the projects that are in backlog.
And as we've talked about in the past we've got a lot of existing leverage to load the facilities we have.
So I would see kind of a bottoming out either where we are now or maybe in '14.
And then as those projects come on from the backlog immediately start contributing both to earnings and cash flow as well as loading the existing capacity we have in our system that will then start driving up both returns on capital cash flow as well as earnings.
We'll go next to Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Another way of looking at the backlog is as you think about the cadence of projects over the next few years is the average life cycle extending? I mean that is is it taking longer to bring projects onstream once they get into the backlog? And if so do you have a rough sense for by how much? So -- I mean let me weigh in a minute Laurence and certainly Simon or Scott can add some additional commentary to what I'm about to say.
The reality of it is we get into -- whether it's a refinery project a gasification project although the projects in China tend to be quicker perhaps sometimes than the refinery expansions these are long-cycle projects 4 years 3 or 4 years in the making.
We get brought into the process maybe a year into the customer's project and I would argue that projects are 2.5 years on average some a little less some a little more depending on where they're located and the customer frankly that's building the project.
So I can't -- within months I can't really see a definitive difference in the cycle if I'm comparing it to large hydrogen additions to refineries as we've seen a lot of historically.
We'll go next to Mike Harrison with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions around the LOX/LIN strength that you saw in the U.S.
and Canada.
Are we really just seeing some of the new accounts that have come onstream over the last several quarters? Or are there other things that you could point to that are driving the strength? Kind of how sustainable do you think those volumes could be? Well good question Mike and I appreciate your acknowledging that the team has done a great job with growing those volumes.
And I think what you're really seeing is we've been sharing with you some insight into our contract signings over the last year or so and we're really seeing a benefit of that step-up and that new business coming on stream.
As we've said in the past though the overall volumes are also dependent on kind of what's happening with our base business and I think we've seen some good performance in our base business as well.
As I mentioned today contract signings continue to be strong so we're optimistic that we'll continue to see good volume growth in our U.S./Canada LOX/LIN business.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And now that we've gotten some improvements there I think the expectation is that we would see some pretty big incremental margin.
It doesn't look like that's showing up.
Obviously you've got a lot of moving pieces within Merchant.
So if we looked at the U.S.
and Canada margin on its own would that margin have improved sequentially? Or there are enough moving pieces and power costs that that's still creating some pressure? Yes Mike this is Scott.
So between the -- principally from the power perspective that would have been the pressure on the margins recognizing also the Merchant business will pick up its share of the pension impact as well.
Research Division</strong> And then question on the Mexico business.
Have you seen any weakness there related to some of the budget issues that have been going on at PEMEX? No we haven't seen that.
Our business in Mexico continues to be very robust performs well.
And Mike quite frankly in the past we've added that in.
To give you some insight in there if we did add in those Mexico LOX/LIN volumes it'd be up a little bit more than even the U.S./Canada.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then last one I had is on equipment and energy.
You noted the earnings are progressing about in line with the initial guidance which was for a $0.05 EPS tailwind this year.
If I do the math it looks like you're a little bit ahead of that piece and it would suggest that Q4 would be down sequentially but the guidance slide calls for that to be up sequentially.
So is it fair to say you're now looking for more than $0.05 of EPS tailwind? And what are your thoughts maybe kind of early thoughts on what next year looks like in terms of LNG activity and the Equipment and Energy business? Mike this is Scott.
We know that in this business it's a little bit lumpy.
And so just directionally maybe it's a little bit higher than $0.05 year-on-year but not huge.
And I think as we mentioned before we continue to see opportunities out there on a global basis and we continue to not only work down the backlog but look for additional orders and look to have announcements in the not-too-distant future.
We'll go next to James Sheehan with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Guys could you just comment a little bit about Merchant pricing trends in Asia? Yes Jim this is Simon.
It's a good question.
And again I think one of the things that we need to make sure we're keeping an eye on is not just price on its own but also kind of the price/cost trade-off.
And so specifically in Asia we have seen some price pressure in our LOX/LIN/LAR liquid oxygen liquid nitrogen and liquid argon business.
So we've seen some negative pricing in Asia in those businesses and that's come at the same time that we're seeing some power cost increases.
So we're seeing -- as we commented that's one of the key issues that's creating a little bit of a margin squeeze for us in that business.
Now if I could just -- the helium scenario is different than what I've just described.
Helium pricing has been strong and positive in all the regions.
We'll go next to Mark Gulley with BGC Partners.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well I was going back to the strong backlog of $3 billion.
Can you give us an indication and of course the whole gasification opportunity in China about how much of that backlog is in China? And would that number change materially when you get to include some of the hydrogen projects that you've just alluded to? So Mark this is Scott.
I would say about half or so of the backlog is in China.
And again we've got a lot of different opportunities on a global basis so I would see that number staying about that -- in that range going forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then secondly as a follow-up you talked about the additional restructuring actions so we're going to hear more a month or so.
Looking at the low operating rates particularly for LOX/LIN in U.S.
and Europe is it safe to assume that you've got to have some asset write-downs plant closings there to tighten up capacity maybe get some pricing flexibility? And could that be a big part of the margin improvement you expect to see in Merchant? Mark this is Scott.
So we're looking at each -- as we've said before we're looking at each of our businesses and identifying opportunities to make sure that we are rightsized given the economic environment and the level of business activity.
And so there's -- every area of the company is under evaluation.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And a housekeeping question on PUI being a negative factor.
Do we finally lap that in the second quarter of fiscal '14? Well -- so it's going to go away at the end of this calendar year and so we'll see -- in '14 we'll see a year-on-year impact 1 quarter seen in '14 versus a full year that we saw here in '13.
That will take us a while before we lap it.
We'll go next to Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I had to hop off for a minute so I apologize if this has been covered but I wanted to just dive in a little bit into working capital and also pension.
The working capital increase so far year-to-date I believe that's not including Indura.
But correct me if I'm wrong about that.
Can you just help me understand what's driving it and how that might play out over the balance or I guess the one remaining quarter and then what you might be able to do to improve it going into next year? So this is Scott.
So working capital does in fact include Indura.
We track closely all our accounts and look at past dues day sales outstanding and so forth.
And so there's not -- recognizing there's a mix across the different geographies we are diligently managing that and we don't see any issues in terms of working capital.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So x Indura it looks fine.
And then on the pension given the idea that rates may be increasing in the near future and you made a big pension contribution I see here how should we be thinking about that relative to your liability going into next year? Let's separate it into 2 pieces.
First the cash and ERISA requirement versus the book accounting.
From an ERISA perspective we feel good about the level of contributions that have been made and don't foresee any large additional contributions in the near term.
If I shift then to a book perspective as you point out rates -- who knows where they're going to go? But to the extent that they do go up and then reduce the liability on a present value basis there might be some tailwinds going forward from a book accounting perspective and pensions in the future.
We'll go next to John McNulty with Credit Suisse.
This is actually Ernie Ortiz filling in for John.
Just on the helium project with the startup of the project you've been benefiting with some good pricing recently.
Can you just talk about the supply/demand impacts from the new project? How should we think about pricing going forward? And just on overall industry kind of how it affects it? Yes.
So Ernie let me just make a few comments broadly about helium.
And so first of all setting a context that we think over a multi-year time frame helium remains tight why is that? We've got increased demand customers are utilizing more helium in medical applications in the electronics industry and in welding applications.
And at the same time today 30% of the world's helium comes from the U.S.
government and that opportunity to supply is declining over time.
So there are new sources that are needed to come on to replace some of the decline in existing sources and we have increasing demand.
So that's the kind of long-term time frame.
If we step back from that a little bit we have our project in Wyoming that we expect to get product from later this year.
You've also seen for the industry some new projects come onstream here just recently.
So those projects will help.
But quite frankly again it's in a framework where the demand is increasing and some of the existing supply is coming down.
I would also just note that you might have heard me mention that we have another project separate from this Wyoming project that we would expect to have an announcement on fairly soon.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just lastly on Electronics can you talk about like where industry operating rates are and kind of your outlook for '14 for Electronics? Sure.
I think Electronics -- so first of all maybe reset for FY '13 our fiscal year we expect Electronics square inches of silicon demand to be down somewhere in the 0 to a few percent and that's different than what we had expected of mid-single digit growth when we set out for the year.
So clearly the industry has not grown the way we and others expected for the year.
I think -- as we look to 2014 I think the industry forecasts we see are generally up in that mid-single digits range but we're going to have to take a very hard look at that as we get closer to the end of the year here.
I think if there's one good thing in the industry while it hasn't been a strong growth period you've seen a relative amount of stability where inventory levels have maintained relatively stable levels for our customers along this time.
We'll go next to Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A question on Indura.
If you look apples-to-apples what would margins look like this quarter versus a year ago? For Indura? Just to clarify.
Research Division</strong> Yes for Indura.
Yes.
They'd be up modestly as we go through the integration and deliver on the synergies that we've expected there as part of the implementation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just last one quick on Tees Valley.
On-time on-budget there? How is that progressing? Yes it's progressing quite well.
I was over there a month or 2 ago and the project is on budget on schedule.
The team's really really charged up about the opportunity and already looking at ways to further improve the existing project authorization through some of the opportunities they've been able to identify.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the Tees Valley and that concept from a timing standpoint will we get that plant up and running and proven out before we announce new projects? Or is there a chance that we get new projects before we've actually proven out that system? Well first what I'd suggest is every unit op in that facility is a unit op that we operate or have operated across our assets over the years.
It's just really the combination of those unit ops.
So from a technology point of view and an operating point of view while we've done very rigorous assessments across -- with internal and external experts I'm very comfortable with our ability to do this.
And I'm very comfortable in our ability to do it with the reliability and capabilities that we've committed to our customer base.
So we're going to make decisions on the opportunities for these projects based on the market availability of them and then frankly being a first mover into the market given the profitability of these projects and the opportunity of that to deliver value to our shareholders.
We'll go next to Basili Alukos with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I commend the work you guys are doing on kind of re-looking at the portfolio and all the cost structure but I kind of want to go back to that issue.
If I go back to 2010 when you had your Analyst Day you talked about -- originally there you had 17% margins.
We're looking to get to 20%.
There are a lot of puts and takes that have happened from then until now.
Obviously Europe is probably worse than what you expected.
I think you talked about Indura maybe being a little bit of -- pulling down margin at least in the near term.
So maybe at best we can say the company is at a push for margins relative to that time frame.
So kind of in that context I'm just wondering how you're thinking and taking into account the commentary that you like the portfolio.
It looks like margins really haven't kept up so I'm just wondering in that context how are you further thinking about kind of the portfolio? Well certainly -- let me start with -- where our margins are today aren't acceptable to me.
I understand that we need to improve them.
And what I was really trying to say both in the actions we've said we're evaluating that will help us in that context.
As it relates specifically to the portfolio my commentary there is I like our business positions.
I don't necessarily -- around the globe I don't necessarily like the economic scenarios today in all of those positions but the combination of the actions we're taking and an expectation as Scott mentioned in his talk that Europe is bottoming Simon's comments on Electronics a little bit ago where we're probably getting towards the bottom of the cycle there as well really I believe will be accretive to margins as we begin to see some economic uptick over the next number of quarters.
The other point I'd make relative to the discussion that you referenced back to in the '10 '11 time frame was one of the things that -- on the positives that has developed is the on-site opportunities driven either by the energy or policy or environmental regulations in China and more broadly around the globe that gives us a higher mix of Tonnage.
In the short term that higher mix of Tonnage has some depression on margins as you work through the capital in construction.
So you have a depression on margins.
Frankly -- typically on the Tonnage businesses you have lower absolute margins because of the nature of the energy pass-through but frankly also lower absolute risk because of the contract.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So I guess if I think about it in hypotheticals speaking if the economy and the rest of the regions were some type of normal growth and margins were still depressed then it would be more likely in that scenario to see further pruning and divestitures of the portfolio? And that's more trying to get cost structure in line until the economy at least in Europe turned around? Yes.
I mean to be clear -- and I meant what I said.
I do like the portfolio that we have today.
There are assets and overhead opportunities broadly across the globe and we'll work on those.
We'll go next to Edward Yang with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but on Electronics revenues were a little bit lighter than expected but your margins improved.
Was wondering what was driving the margin improvement.
Was that mix or cost-cutting? Well -- so it's really -- I mean it's a combination of both.
Right? We obviously aren't in a robust growth environment from Electronics and it's still a good job by the team to share margin improvements.
Specifically year-on-year we did have a mix effect in the electronics equipment business that helped that as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And one thing that struck out at me with your slide on Merchant Gases and just the different pricing trends across the different geographies the operating rates the LOX/LIN capacity utilization rates are actually lower in the US and Canada but you had positive pricing.
And in Europe and Asia you're in the mid-70%s and you have negative pricing.
So what accounts for the deltas there in terms of pricing? Is it just the quality of competitors? Or is there anyone out there that's being particularly disruptive on pricing -- or had been in the past as being less disciplined? Yes.
So I think you make a good observation.
And I will say for the last few quarters we have seen pricing dynamics that aren't necessarily exactly correlated with overall regional loading rates right? And so this isn't a commodity business right? It's a very local business.
So specifically your question on what's happening in pricing we've got some price pressures across all of the regions particularly again I'm speaking of the LOX/LIN/LAR business.
So we are seeing some price pressure in Europe where prices are coming down.
In the U.S./Canada and LOX/LIN while prices are stable we've got input costs going up.
And in Asia quite frankly we've got higher power costs and higher -- and LOX/LIN prices coming down.
So I don't know that we would necessarily select one competitor as creating this competitive pressure but I think you are seeing some price pressure across LOX/LIN again contrasting that with helium where pricing continues to be strong.
This does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I will turn the conference back over for any closing or additional remarks.
Thanks Jessica.
Let me just wrap up by saying our focus on increasing shareholder value remains unwavering.
Our emphasis on cost reduction productivity improvement and disciplined project execution remain key priorities.
Our future prospects are strong given our record project backlog and the significant leverage we have in our existing assets.
You'll have an opportunity to see a replay of this call at 2 p.m.
today.
And thank you for joining us and have a great day.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to Air Products and Chemicals' Fourth Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also this telephone conference presentation and the comments made on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
Air Products will be recording this teleconference and may publish all or a portion of the teleconference.
No other recording or redistribution of this telephone conference by any other party are permitted without the express written permission of Air Products.
Your participation indicates your agreement.
Beginning today's call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Moore please go ahead.
Thank you Audra.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Air Products' fourth quarter results teleconference.
This is Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
I'm pleased to be joined today by John McGlade our Chairman President and CEO; and Scott Crocco our CFO.
John will make a few opening remarks and summarize our results.
Scott will provide more detail on our quarterly and fiscal year results and update our outlook for 2014 and I will provide perspective on each of our key operating segments.
After our remarks we'll be pleased to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We issued our earnings release this morning.
It's available on our website along with the slides for this teleconference.
Please go to airproducts.com to access the materials.
Instructions for accessing the replay of this call beginning at 2 p.m.
Eastern Time are also available on our website.
Please turn to Slide 2.
As always today's teleconference will contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions.
Please review the information on these slides and at the end of today's earnings release explaining factors that may affect these expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to John.
Thank you Simon and let me also wish everyone a good morning.
We greatly appreciate you joining us on the call today.
I want to start off by providing you with my perspective on our fiscal year.
In 2013 Air Products delivered on our key priorities: cost reduction productivity improvements disciplined project execution and portfolio management.
While the economy was weaker than expected our volumes improved and our productivity initiatives more than offset inflation.
All of this produced clear benefits for our shareholders.
As you can see on Slide 3 we had a solid year.
We grew sales by 6% and our underlying volumes x PUI grew by 1%.
We grew both operating income and EPS by 2% each short of expectations at the beginning of the year but consistent with our recent guidance.
We increased the dividend by 11% making this the 31st consecutive year of dividend increases by Air Products.
And we also bought back 5.7 million shares during the year at an average price of just under $81 or a 24% discount to our year-end closing price.
Overall we have returned $4.5 billion to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks since 2008 and we delivered a total shareholder return of 33% for the year well in excess of the S&amp;P 500 DSR of 19%.
In addition we continue to make significant progress with our portfolio and productivity actions.
We delivered cost savings of $60 million from our 2012 European focus reorganization both on time and on budget.
And we are taking additional actions aimed at reducing cost by a further $75 million up from our target of $60 million in new savings that we discussed on our Q3 earnings call.
These actions which include product exits and asset rationalizations as well as organizational improvements are focused on strengthening our electronics business particularly focused on products that serve the LED and photovoltaic or PV markets.
In addition we are restructuring our global operation functions and further optimizing our European cost structure.
We delivered solid cost performance and productivity and our SG&amp;A to sales of 10.5% remains the best in the industry.
And we are on track to exit the remainder of our Polyurethane Intermediates or PUI business in the next several months as we satisfy our final contract obligations.
We delivered on our commitments to our customers and shareholders by executing on our backlog of projects safely on time on budget and at returns that are well above our cost of capital.
We brought on stream more than a dozen major new projects including hydrogen plants and air separation plants in the United States Europe and China.
These investments are backed by long-term take-or-pay contracts and will drive cash flow and earnings growth in the future.
And we successfully integrated the Indura acquisition in South America strengthening our position in this fast-growing market.
Now please turn to Slide 4.
On the new business side we had a very successful year winning new and profitable projects.
We continue to see exciting growth in the oxygen for coal gasification market in China the hydrogen market globally and the LNG market around the world.
And finally our energy-from-waste business in the Tees Valley 1 project are going very well.
I visited the site earlier this year and I was very impressed.
We are on schedule on budget and meeting our safety goals.
We remain confident in the business strategy I shared with you when we announced the first Tees Valley project including the proven on-site business model supported by long-term contracts with firm prices we do not take the price of volume risk for any of the inputs or outputs of the plant a clear and compelling market need in the U.K.
to reduce waste and create clean and renewable energy and we have proven expertise in every unit of operation: oxygen production gasification syngas clean-up and power generation.
With that we have decided to proceed with the second facility adjacent to the Tees Valley 1 project.
The schedule will be optimized to take advantage of project synergies and the Renewable Obligation Credit or ROC program.
Simon will provide more details but as a result we expect Tees Valley 2 to be more profitable than Tees Valley 1.
Before I conclude I want to reiterate that we remain committed to delivering on our priorities for 2014.
These priorities have not changed.
We are focused on executing against our backlog winning profitable new projects loading existing assets and implementing further productivity and cost initiatives.
The investments we have made over the past several years and our ability to adapt to changing economic conditions are key drivers for Air Products' future.
We believe shareholders will realize increasingly stronger returns as earnings growth from the profitable projects in our backlog contribute in 2014 and accelerate significantly in 2015 and 2016.
Now let me turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks John.
Please turn to Slide 5 for a review of our 2013 results.
Sales of $10.2 billion increased 6% with acquisitions contributing 5% and higher energy pass-through contributing 2%.
Our underlying sales were 1% higher on strength in our North American and Asian Tonnage businesses higher Performance Materials volumes and LNG equipment orders.
These were partially offset by weakness in our electronics equipment area.
The impact of our wind-down of our PUI business was unfavorable by 2%.
Overall volume growth was more modest than we had expected.
While this is primarily due to weak macro economic environment particularly in Europe and Asia we remain focused on loading our existing assets.
Our operating income and earnings per share were both up 2% while our operating margin for the year was 15.4% down 60 basis points primarily due to higher pension costs.
Our return on capital employed or ROCE declined by 140 basis points to 10.1% as a result of higher capital spending including the Indura acquisition.
This is well above our 8% cost of capital.
As a reminder we are developing executing and operating good projects that are accretive to ROCE over the next few years.
Turning to Slide 6 let me now take you through our fiscal Q4 results.
For the quarter sales of $2.6 billion were 1% lower than prior year on lower volumes and stable pricing partially offset by higher energy pass-through and currency.
Sequentially overall sales increased 2% on a 3% stronger volumes across all business segments.
Operating income of $421 million increased 3% versus prior year and 10% sequentially.
Our operating margin of 16.3% was up 60 basis points versus prior year despite higher pension costs.
Sequentially our margin improved 130 basis points primarily due to higher volumes and lower costs.
Net income and diluted earnings per share were up 3% and 4% respectively versus last year.
Turning to Slide 7 you can see an overview of the factors that affected this quarter's performance in terms of earnings per share.
The non-GAAP items include the cost reduction program John mentioned a charge of $232 million before tax $158 million after-tax or about $0.74 per share.
We expect to see annual benefits of about $75 million beginning in fiscal 2015.
The fiscal '14 benefits we expect to see are about $45 million or $0.15 per share.
This charge includes $141 million for actions within our electronics process materials business.
The charge includes the final contract settlement and exit from the silane business a restructuring of our NF3 and ammonia positions in the U.S.
and a number of headcount reductions.
The lack of growth in the PV market overall and the collapse of the thin-film PV sector specifically led to overcapacity in both NF3 and silane.
As you can see we have taken decisive actions to exit the silane business where we were not a basic manufacturer and to optimize our NF3 capacity by reducing production in the U.S.
The LED market also suffers from overcapacity and we have reduced our U.S.
ammonia production accordingly.
To be clear the rest of the electronics portfolio continues to deliver value and we are comfortable with its place on our portfolio.
The on-site business is stable and grows as we renew nitrogen plant orders for new fabs.
And the advanced materials business is driven by new product development as it is focused on providing solutions for customers' advanced node manufacturing.
We believe the strength of our on-site advanced materials and delivery systems businesses combined with the positive impact of these decisive actions positions our electronics business for continual profitable growth in the future.
The charge also includes $61 million of other costs including further restructuring of our European Merchant organization rightsizing our Asian Merchant organization for the expected slower growth environment restructuring our global operations team and the elimination of additional administrative costs.
Finally there's an additional $30 million of other asset actions within the Merchant and Tonnage businesses for the shutdown of underutilized facilities.
Also included in this quarter's non-GAAP items is $0.03 of costs for advisory services.
In discontinued operations we had a $0.06 impact from lower expected proceeds for the divestiture of the U.K./Ireland Homecare business that we are continually actively marketing.
As a reminder we recorded a $0.70 per share gain in the third quarter fiscal '12 when we completed the sale of the larger continental Homecare business.
Excluding these items our continuing operations EPS of $1.47 increased by $0.05 or 4% versus last year.
Volumes increased EPS by $0.08 with each business segment up year-on-year.
The positive impact on profits was driven by mix primarily the impact of less lower margin sale of Equipment business.
Pricing energy and raw materials taken together decreased EPS by $0.04 due primarily to the higher raw material costs in Merchant and Electronics and Performance businesses and lower pricing in the Electronics and Performance Materials segment.
Net cost performance was flat including a $0.05 unfavorable pension impact.
Our productivity efforts more than offset inflation.
Excluded from the volume and cost lines is a net $0.01 unfavorable impact from our decision to exit the PUI business.
This is a smaller impact than last quarter due to our asset management efforts.
Currency translation and foreign exchange was $0.01 favorable.
Equity affiliate income contributed $0.01.
Noncontrolling interest was $0.03 unfavorable primarily due to stronger Indura results.
Lower interest expense tax rate and shares outstanding each contributed $0.01.
And overall we delivered a good quarter on solid execution and cost performance.
Now for a review of the business segment results I'll turn the call over to Simon.
Thanks Scott.
Please turn to Slide 8 Merchant Gases.
Merchant Gases sales of over $1 billion were up 4% versus last year driven by 3% stronger volumes and 1% improved pricing.
Liquid oxygen nitrogen and argon volumes were up again in all regions partially offset by lower helium volumes globally due to the supply challenges and packaged gases demand weakness in Europe.
Sales were up 2% sequentially on stronger volumes and flat pricing.
Volumes were stronger in U.S.
Canada and Asia while Europe saw the normal seasonal summer slowdown.
Helium volume was below our expectations and was again down versus prior year driven by reduced availability from our helium feedstock suppliers in the U.S.
and Algeria.
It was certainly positive that an agreement was reached to avoid shutdown of the U.S.
government helium supply.
However we expect helium to remain relatively tight over the next few years until some of the longer-term sources we are developing come on stream.
We do expect modest sequential improvement through next year as we begin to get product from our Wyoming facility late in Q1 and additional Middle Eastern supply helps the industry.
As we mentioned last quarter we continue to actively develop new sources.
We announced yesterday a new project to extract helium from a Kinder Morgan facility already in operation in Doe Canyon Colorado.
This new facility is expected to produce 230 million standard cubic feet per year of pure helium replacing more than 15% of the BLM supply as that system declines.
We expect the new facility on stream in early 2015.
Globally for the full year contract signings continued to be strong up double digits from last year's record level.
In addition customer retention improved significantly.
Merchant Gases operating income of $177 million was up 10% versus prior year and up 7% sequentially.
Segment operating margin of 16.7% was up 90 basis points compared to last year and up 70 basis points sequentially.
Versus last year operating income was up on the higher volumes improved pricing particularly in U.S./Canada and lower costs particularly in Europe from last year's cost reduction program.
Sequentially operating income was up on higher volumes and lower costs.
Let's now review the Merchant business by region.
Please turn to Slide 9.
In U.S./Canada sales were up 12% on 7% higher volumes and 5% higher pricing.
Liquid oxygen and liquid nitrogen volumes were again up 5% on strength in the oilfield services food metals and petrochemical markets as we continue to see positive contributions from last year's strong contract signings.
Liquid argon volumes were also up on strong demand and we saw a positive volume contribution from the EPCO acquisition but helium volumes were down due to supply limitations.
LOX/LIN capacity utilization is up slightly to the mid-70s.
Overall pricing was positive primarily driven by helium.
LOX/LIN prices were slightly positive reflecting our price increase and recovery of higher power costs.
We announced a new West Texas liquid nitrogen facility to support the Oilfield Services business in the Permian Basin.
We expect this facility to deliver solid profitability when on stream in 2015 as a result of the expected strong Oilfield Services demand growth.
In 2012 we started up a similar facility in Oklahoma for this market and it has more than exceeded our expectations.
These targeted capacity additions are great investments.
In Europe sales were up 1% versus last year on 2% lower volumes flat pricing and a 3% increase from currency.
LOX/LIN volumes were flat versus prior year with some strength in Central and Southern Europe.
Argon and CO2 volumes were up while helium volumes were down on supply constraints.
Cylinder volumes were down on lower demand across the region.
Overall pricing was flat with positive helium pricing offsetting negative LOX/LIN pricing and LOX/LIN plant loadings were in the mid-70s.
In Asia sales were up 5% versus last year on 7% higher volumes 3% lower prices and a positive 1% currency impact.
LOX/LIN volumes were up double digits across the region and in China.
Liquid argon volumes and our Microbulk product lines showed significant improvements while helium was down on supply limitations and cylinder volumes were down slightly on customer profitability actions.
Plant loadings remained in the mid-70s with moderate capacity additions.
Pricing was down in the liquid oxygen nitrogen and argon business particularly in China driven in part by the wholesale market.
Latin America is an increasingly important part of our global portfolio and a significant emerging market opportunity.
With the acquisition of Indura 1 year ago we believe it is important to begin to provide a Latin America regional commentary.
As a reminder Air Products has a wholly owned business in Brazil; a majority-owned business Indura; and an equity affiliate joint venture in Mexico.
So our sales and operating income commentary won't include Mexico as their results are included in equity affiliate income.
Underlying sales were up 1% on flat volumes and 1% higher prices.
There was a negative 5% impact from currency.
Brazil volumes were flat overall with some LOX/LIN growth offset by cylinder weakness.
We brought onstream a new liquid plant in So Paulo that is providing significant productivity benefits.
Indura volumes were flat with delays and mining projects in Chile and economic weakness in Colombia and Argentina.
The LOX/LIN plant capacity utilization is in the mid-70s.
After our first year of the Indura acquisition we remain pleased with the team and the business.
The integration has gone well.
We've exceeded our expectations for synergies and are seeing more new Merchant liquid and small on-site opportunities than we had anticipated a real credit to the combined Air Products and Indura teams.
Please turn to Slide 10 Tonnage Gases.
Tonnage Gases sales of $835 million were down 1% versus last year on higher energy pass-through offset by lower PUI volumes.
Volumes x PUI were down 1% as strong U.S.
Gulf Coast hydrogen volumes continued but were offset by a contract termination in Latin America.
We are particularly pleased to see continued strong U.S.
Gulf Coast hydrogen volumes leveraging our pipeline system.
The exit of our PUI business by January 2014 is proceeding as we expected.
For the quarter PUI sales were down about $55 million versus prior year and operating income was down modestly as we continued to reduce the remaining cost structure of that business.
For the full year as expected PUI sales were down about $160 million and operating income was down about $25 million.
For the segment sequential sales were down 1% on higher volumes offset by lower energy pass-through.
Operating income of $135 million was down 4% versus prior year and down 2% x PUI as we saw higher maintenance costs due to more customer-planned outages higher pension costs and the impact of the contract termination.
For the Tonnage business our maintenance cost timing is primarily driven by the timing of our customers' planned outages.
Obviously it's beneficial to take our hydrogen plants offline for maintenance at the same time our customer has reduced demands due to their maintenance activities.
With more planned customer outages in FY '14 we do expect an increase in costs before we return to more typical and lower levels in FY '15.
Operating income was up 12% sequentially.
X PUI operating income was up 9% primarily on the higher volumes.
Operating margin of 16.1% was down 60 basis points versus prior year on a lower operating income and higher energy cost pass-through.
Margin was up 190 basis points sequentially on the higher operating income and lower energy cost pass-through.
As we said last quarter we continue to see strong project development activity in the global hydrogen business and we're pleased to recently announce 2 significant projects.
First we will build own and operate an industrial gas complex to supply Bharat Petroleum's Kochi India refinery and petrochemical complex.
Air Products will be supplying 165 million standard cubic feet a day of hydrogen and steam from 2 steam methane reformers syngas from our purification system nitrogen and oxygen from an air separation unit and we'll produce our own power from a gas turbine.
As more regions focus on cleaner fuels and more customers see the value in outsourcing their industrial gases through the on-site model we believe our leadership position in global hydrogen will continue to drive growth.
We also announced that we will build own and operate a new 150 million standard cubic feet a day hydrogen production unit to supply Shell Canada's Scotford facility near Edmonton Alberta Canada.
This plant will also supply North West's Sturgeon refinery with approximately 25 million standard cubic feet a day and will be connected to our Heartland Hydrogen Pipeline system supplying customers throughout the region.
We expect to continue to see growth opportunities as refiners and upgraders expand operations in Western Canada.
Please turn to Slide 11 Electronics and Performance Materials.
Segment sales of $580 million were down 6% versus last year with volumes down 5% and pricing down 2%.
Sequentially sales were up 3% due to higher volumes.
Versus prior year Electronics sales were down 15% primarily driven by lower Equipment sales both delivery systems and sales of equipment in the on-site business last year.
Tonnage was up and process materials was down primarily due to our decision to exit the silane business.
Electronics sales were up 4% sequentially on improvement in delivery systems in both process and advanced materials.
Performance Materials sales were up 7% versus last year as we saw positive growth across all regions and all major product lines.
Orders were strong construction markets improved while marine coatings continued to be weak.
Europe was stronger on export-driven markets.
Sequentially PMD sales were flat which is better than the typical seasonal reduction.
Operating income of $96 million was up 12% versus prior year primarily due to an inventory revaluation last year.
Operating margin was up 270 basis points to 16.5% on the higher operating income.
Sequentially operating income was up 10% and operating margin was up 120 basis points primarily due to the higher electronics materials volumes Now please turn to Slide 12 Equipment and Energy.
Sales of $118 million were down 7% versus prior year as lower ASU activity was only partially offset by higher LNG activity and up 14% sequentially on higher LNG activity.
Operating income of $21 million was up 16% over prior year and up 28% sequentially primarily on the higher LNG activity.
As we said before margins are higher on LNG projects than on ASU projects so product mix impacts the results.
The backlog of $402 million is down 11% from last year and up 23% versus last quarter as we continued to see the sequential benefits of new LNG orders.
During the quarter we were pleased to announce a mid-scale LNG order for Technip in ShaanXi China reinforcing our commitment to supply all spectrums of the LNG market.
In addition to this exciting order the engineering and manufacturing activity in support of our LNG business remains at a high level and the outlook for the next several years is very promising.
We expect to have a number of additional project award announcements soon.
Air Products liquefaction technology has been selected for several of the LNG export projects being planned for North America.
As these projects progress to the necessary licensing and permitting processes we expect that one or more will reach final investment decisions in FY '14 and '15 resulting in firm equipment orders for Air Products.
These projects are in addition to the Dominion Cove Point order which was announced in April of 2013.
Meanwhile work is continuing on the 2 major floating LNG projects that we have in-house for Shell and PETRONAS and we see continued opportunities in this market.
In support of this increased activity our second coil-wound heat exchanger manufacturing facility under construction in Florida will be coming online early in 2014 just in time to meet expected market demand.
As John mentioned we are excited about the progress in our Tees Valley 1 energy-from-waste project and the decision to proceed with the Tees Valley 2 project at the same site.
Tees Valley 1 is on budget meeting our safety goals and on schedule to begin commissioning in late FY '14 and we expect the plant to be fully onstream in early FY '15.
The Tees Valley 2 schedule is optimized to take advantage of project execution and startup synergies with startup expected in early 2016.
The schedule will also allow us to take full advantage of the Renewable Obligation Credit or ROC program.
We've already secured the key contracts for waste and ROC sales with the same partners at Tees Valley 1 and we're pleased that the U.K.
government cabinet office will purchase all the power from Tees Valley 2 under a similar long-term committed price contract.
As a result of the project synergies the capital cost is roughly 10% lower than Tees Valley 1 and we expect Tees Valley 2 to be more profitable than Tees Valley 1.
The 2 projects combined also have very strong asset management opportunities.
We're very proud of these projects and the Air Products innovation and expertise that are bringing them to life.
These plants offer efficient clean generation of power from waste.
Together these 2 facilities will create 1 500 construction jobs and 100 permanent jobs divert as much as 700 000 metric tons of nonrecyclable waste from landfills each year and power as many as 100 000 homes.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Scott.
Thanks Simon.
Now please turn to Slide 13 and let me provide you a brief summary of our outlook.
Economic activity in the second half of 2013 was slower than we had initially anticipated in most regions.
Given the current economic conditions we are planning for economic growth to be modest again in 2014.
Globally for the regions we operate in we are forecasting manufacturing growth of 2% to 4%.
In the U.S.
uncertainty in the economy remains despite the government restart.
The combination of unresolved fiscal challenges weak job growth low consumer confidence and diminished global demand are likely to continue to act as a headwind on economic growth despite the positive drivers of lower energy costs and strength in housing.
We are forecasting a range of 2% to 4% growth.
However even the low end of the range assumes no significant impact from any potential government shutdown or debt ceiling crisis.
In Europe challenges remain with low confidence levels and weak job markets.
We are hopeful that we've seen the bottom and anticipate growth of 0% to 2%.
This is dependent upon trade-offs between austerity and growth reforms.
In Asia we expect a gradual acceleration in manufacturing growth to continue particularly in China.
However recent government focus on reform is expected to temper growth.
For the region we expect growth of 5% to 7%.
In South America we expect growth in the range of 1% to 3%.
This is dependent on global economic demand driving the export market.
We expect that Electronics will begin to rebound in 2014 after 2 years of weakness.
Overall for the year we forecast square inches of silicon process to be up 3% to 5% next year.
Our project development and contract signings continue to be very strong.
As Simon mentioned earlier we've recently announced 2 large hydrogen projects one in India and one in Canada.
You've heard us talk about the increasing demand for hydrogen around the world and increased acceptance of the outsource or sale of gas business model.
This represents a great hydrogen opportunity for Air Products.
We also continue to see opportunities in China for oxygen for coal gasification driven by the government's goal of developing domestic sources of energy and feedstocks utilizing their vast coal reserves.
And our LNG business leadership continues with new orders for floating projects U.S.
export terminals midsized plans as well as the traditional baseload projects.
The new and profitable on-site projects would drive earnings in 2016 and beyond.
Fiscal '14 capital spending is expected to be similar to the $2 billion level we saw in fiscal '13 although we are bidding a number of large and profitable investment opportunities.
If a number of these move ahead we could see our CapEx rise.
Our continued success in winning profitable new projects has increased our backlog to $3.5 billion securing additional future profitable growth.
You can see an updated list of our major projects in Appendix Slide 17 along with the geographic and business segment capital spending split on Slide 18.
Now to help you with historical comparisons Slide 19 in the appendix shows non-GAAP CapEx which includes capital lease expenditures.
Given our economic outlook for fiscal 2014 our EPS guidance range is $5.70 to $5.90.
Walking from our 2013 EPS of $5.50 we have the following factors.
New plan onstream should add about $0.20 to $0.25.
These are projects that are either onstream now or will be onstream soon and the on-site projects are backed by contractual commitments.
This number is slightly below our previous expectations due to project timing and slower merchant floating ramps.
We expect a greater contribution from new plants in FY '15 and FY '16.
The base business should add $0.05 to $0.15 per share through a combination of higher volumes and increased LNG business.
The higher volumes in Merchant and Electronics and Performance Materials will be the factor most influenced by the economy.
Higher maintenance costs will be about a $0.05 headwind as a significant number of our hydrogen customers have scheduled outages next year.
Our cost reduction efforts should add about $0.15 a share.
The shutdown of our PUI business could be a $0.10 headwind.
Pension expense will be about a $0.05 tailwind as the rise -- due to the rise of interest rates.
We expect taxes currency and interest costs to be roughly flat to last year.
And the number of shares outstanding will increase modestly resulting in about a $0.05 to $0.10 headwind.
Now let's turn to our first quarter outlook in Slide 14.
Our guidance for Q1 is for earnings per share of $1.30 to $1.35 based on the following factors.
On the positive side we expect to see increased earnings sequentially from new planned onstreams further progress of our cost reduction initiatives and lower pension costs.
Offsetting this sequential improvement in Merchant Gases and Electronics and Performance Materials we expect to see lower seasonal demand.
In Tonnage Gases profits are expected to decline due to seasonally higher maintenance spending and lower volumes as refineries begin taking their annual outages.
We will see lower Equipment and Energy profits in the first quarter based on project timing although we do expect a significant rebound to the rest of the year.
Finally we expect to see an adverse impact from inventory revaluation and lower OIE.
Now let me turn the call back to John to wrap up.
Thank you Scott.
Please turn to Slide 15.
In conclusion our performance this quarter was driven by our ability to execute effectively on the strategic priorities we set out at the beginning of this year.
We continue to stay focused on driving our global competitiveness and improvement in our overall returns and profitability.
Moving into fiscal year 2014 the leadership team and I with the full support of the board will continue to move forward aggressively on the priorities we have outlined for our investors customers and other stakeholders: continued cost reduction and productivity improvement; disciplined project execution; loading of our existing assets; and winning new projects creating profitable growth to drive shareholder value into the future.
And while we do not expect to see some continuing -- while we do expect to see some continuing economic headwinds in fiscal year '14 we also see great opportunities for good projects at attractive returns in our core hydrogen oxygen for coal gasification electronics and LNG leadership positions.
Before we turn it over for questions let me also take this opportunity to welcome the new directors we've recently added to our board: Seifi Ghasemi Edward Monser and Matthew Paull.
The management team and I have met with each of them as part of their onboarding process and we look forward to the insights these 3 highly qualified individuals bring to Air Products as we work to continue to create value for our shareholders.
In addition as you all know I've announced my retirement in 2014 after 38 great years with the company.
It's something the board and I have been discussing for some time now as I approach 60 years old.
To ensure we find the most qualified CEO candidate we have formed a search committee and retained a global search firm.
Our goal is to have our new CEO in place in the first half of 2014.
And with that thank you.
And now we are ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to our first question from David Begleiter at Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Scott you mentioned that the impact from new plants will also be higher in '15 '16 and '14? Could it be a double the $0.25 number you put out there for '14? Yes David so if you look at the projects that are in our backlog I think the impact that we're going to see in '14 moving forward you could see that doubling in '15 and even higher in '16 again for those projects that are currently in our backlog.
So good ramp-up as we bring those projects onstream.
And as a reminder over 85% of our projects in backlog are take-or-pay terms so we don't have volume risks.
So we feel confident about the growth in earnings particularly in '15 and '16.
Research Division</strong> And Scott I would have thought the base business could do more than a $0.05 to $0.15 in 2014 given the loading that you should get on your base business and in Electronics.
What's limiting the growth in that base business next year or in 2014? So we are in a current situation economically that there's a lot of uncertainty right? And you heard my comments around each of the different geographies recognizing that we've begun to see some modest sequential growth but there's a lot of risk there's a lot of uncertainty and there's weak confidence.
So we are optimistic that we're going to be able to load the facilities not only from the economy but also our applications.
I also mentioned that in that $0.05 to $0.15 is all the base business.
So we're driving productivity efforts to offset inflation and we're trying to manage pricing and offsetting increases in a raw material situation.
Next we'll move to P.J.
Juvekar at Citi.
It's actually John Hirt filling in for P.J.
today.
In Electronics and Performance Materials your operating margins were higher than they've been now for a couple of years.
And if I recall the low end of your 2015 margin target that you talked about in the past is 18% for that segment.
Now that you've done some rightsizing and it sounds like there's more in the pipeline do you think you've done enough to get to that 18% number? So John it's a good question.
And obviously we're very pleased by the improvement in the segment.
As we pointed out relative to last year that was driven by an inventory revaluation last year.
But we have seen some sequential strength in the business.
And when you look at the year-on-year sales numbers particularly on Electronics that's primarily a function of the Equipment business which is really tied to new fab CapEx.
So if you take a look at the on-site business in Electronics it's doing well.
If you take a look at the advanced materials part of Electronics it's doing well.
And you see the decisive actions we're taking to drive improvement in the process materials.
At the same time the Performance Materials part of the business is going well.
We said we had good sales growth across all major product lines in all regions driven by some of our new activity.
So we're comfortable and confident that with the changes we're making in Electronics that segment is positioned well to improve going forward and drive margins improvements.
Okay.
And then on the restructuring if you had to allocate the expected $45 million of benefits that you anticipate for 2014 to your segments how much would you anticipate falling into Merchant how much in Electronics and Performance Materials and how much outside of those 2 segments? So yes it's a great question John.
If I could just follow up with that.
So roughly speaking I mean in Electronics we probably see -- I don't know $10 million $12 million $14 million of the savings.
Okay? And then the rest of the savings probably will be about 2/3 Merchant and 1/3 Tonnage.
And we'll take our next question from Vincent Andrews at Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> If I could just ask what your cash flow expectations are for '14 both maybe cash flow from operations and then ultimately free cash flow? And I'm just thinking I've seen that higher shares outstanding but I see the interest flat.
And how much of those charges are cash-oriented? If you could just reconcile that would be helpful.
Yes.
So this is Scott.
So we'd just take a step back and talk briefly about '13.
When we look at our cash flow from operations short of $1.6 million.
And then look at PP&amp;E equity affiliate acquisitions we define cash flow from operations less that as free cash flow we're negative by roughly $200 million recognizing that we've made a voluntary pension contribution at the beginning of the year for about $220 million.
So absent that we're about scratch.
I'll also point out that through the course of this year each quarter we improved the cash flow from operations sequentially quarter-to-quarter and we're going to continue to focus on that going forward from both loading our existing assets and bringing the projects in the backlog onstream.
We would expect next year to be breakeven to probably positively slightly positive from a free cash flow perspective.
And in terms of the provision we've got a fair amount that was paid in this quarter associated with the final contract termination.
The lion's share of the provision though from an asset perspective is not going to be cash but rather just the people actions will be cash that we'll see next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up on the cylinder demand in Europe it sounds like the cylinders are starting to come back.
Is that something -- could you give a line of sight on where we are? And is that something that sort of took place in this quarter and we shouldn't expect to continue going forward or how should we be thinking about that? Yes Vincent I think it's really if you do year-on-year comparisons right we're still seeing weakness in the cylinder business.
But I think sequentially as we've said last quarter we think in general we're seeing some bottoming and there could be some signs of things starting to improve but that's something that we definitely want to see some more improvement on next year.
We'll move next to Don Carson at Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes a question on Merchant loading in the U.S.
John what penalty do you think you'd undergo because of your lack of a cylinder business? I mean what impact do you think that might have on your loading and what efforts are you doing to try and offset that? I know you started a Minibulk effort.
How successful has that been? Has that helped loading at all in the liquid business? And then just as a follow for Scott you've outlined how you expect earnings to improve new projects in '15 to '16.
How does return on capital unfold? What construction what's going to be the change in construction progress from year end '13 to '14 and '15? Okay Don.
This is John.
Thanks for the questions.
Let me take the first one.
Certainly I'm not sure we've ever quantified it in the context of a percent.
Obviously if you don't have a packaged gas business you miss certain parts of the market verticals.
However having said that and I appreciate you acknowledging it we've really ramped up our commitment in terms of sales resources our commitment in terms of Microbulk product offerings the EPCO acquisition and strong applications and I believe the 5% or so LOX/LIN growth you're seeing really is a result of that activity.
As we talked when we started doing that it takes a little while for these projects from the signings that you bring on to come onstream but I think we're starting to see that in the P&amp;L.
And I actually feel pretty good about the progress that that team has made.
Scott? Don to your return on capital employed comment.
So I think first about the backlog say last year from a SIP [ph] perspective maybe it's $1 billion.
We end this year maybe $1.3 billion.
And given the size of the backlog going forward maybe it's more like $1.5 billion or so in '14.
I would see '14 FY '14 as kind of being roughly flat with '13 from an ROCE bottoming out during the course of the year and then turning and coming up and improving second half of '14 into '15 and '16 as we bring the projects on the backlog.
And again re-emphasize that over 80% of this is in take-or-pay terms and so that doesn't have the volume.
And we'll move next to John McNulty at Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions on the Tees project #2.
I believe the first one was going to take $500 million of capital and should have been about $0.10 accretive.
So is that the same level -- I know you talked about a 10% discount on the capital side.
So should we be thinking about that as $450 million or is it going to be a bigger facility? How should we think about capital requirements for that? And then in terms of the synergies and the opportunities around that that you mentioned what does that mean for the EPS accretion? So let me take this John.
So I think you have it captured correctly in terms of we see some execution synergies that will reduce the capital circa the $50 million or so that you mentioned.
It also as Simon mentioned in his words it really gives us the opportunity frankly beyond the cost synergies to take the experienced team that's already executing 1 move them right to 2 and be able to take advantage of the Renewable Obligations Credits at their maximum levels that are out there today.
The really exciting parts though of this project are the asset management opportunities that 1 offered us that when I mentioned that I was in my words that when I was at the site and reviewed with the team and if you just think of putting fundamentally a duplicate size and duplicate process facility next door you just really get to leverage those up.
So I think we would say in total the contribution when both facilities are lined out is on the order of $0.25 to $0.30 a share in EPS.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
That's very helpful.
And then with regard to the Merchant business you've got -- you had some pretty decent volume growth and yet you're still kind of looking at mid-70s utilization rates.
I guess I'm wondering if there's room for any rationalization of any of the existing capacity that you've got there if that could potentially make sense going forward or not.
Sure John.
I mean one of the things that I believe I've said in a number of these calls is we always look at the opportunities for portfolio management whether it be at a segment level or an asset level.
And obviously we're looking at that as we speak.
I think however what you've got you have to think about the loadings sort of from a regional perspective because there's different dynamics going on there.
If I start in Asia China largely the turndown there came sort of as -- quite a bit of capacity was being added to the market in an environment where you had low double-digit growth and now you've ratcheted that back 300 or 400 basis points.
And so I'm pretty comfortable that we'll grow back into that capacity.
It's just going to take a few years to do that.
Europe obviously if the economics scenario we continue to look and ask ourselves where we are on that and do we have the right assets.
And as you've seen and heard we've taken a lot of actions in Europe both in '13 and then are projecting some additional actions here in '14.
In North America those came down a little more by some of the targeted additions we've brought in.
So we mentioned the Oklahoma facility that came into the map if you will so that's more of a mathematical issue that again I think would be signings that we're achieving in that marketplace we'll get there.
And if I go to Latin America and talk Brazil specifically we did bring on a new plant in Brazil that added some incremental capacity although the primary reason for that was really to shut down a 35 40-year-old asset and there was significant productivity benefits from that.
And right now if you go to the sort of the Chile area a lot of that is export-driven which is tied to global economies.
But I think we're pretty comfortable that that'll come back on track as the global economies strengthen over the next year or so.
And we'll take our next question from Duffy Fischer at Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering 2 things.
The first is if you just go to your Slide 13 where you go through the worldwide manufacturing growth numbers outlooks for next year where did those come in on your calendar year or your fiscal year? Just so we know kind of what the delta is going forward for the next year if you walk through those for the last 12 months.
Sure Duff.
This is Scott.
So low end of the range overall we would say that the global manufacturing growth came in roughly about 2%.
Now inside of it U.S./Canada would be at the low end 2.2% or so.
Asia came in about the middle of the range.
Europe being the big disappointment that came in call it 2% negative so well below the range.
And then South America likewise is kind of at the low end of the anticipated range.
So overall the manufacturing environment that we saw was the low end for some regions particularly Europe below the low end.
I'll also point out that from a square inches of silicon perspective we anticipated in '13 growth of mid-single digits call it 4% to 6%.
And while we're still looking at what the final numbers come in at on our fiscal year basis it might be just modestly favorable but nowhere near where we had anticipated.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you walk back you laid out about the same slide 1 year ago.
Coming off a base of $5.40 in '12 you expected to grow midpoint $0.35 EPS during the last year.
Now looking forward do you expect to grow $0.30 off of $5.50 base over the next year.
But when you look through your growth numbers Asia and Europe are meaningfully better and those are 2 very big markets for you as you're look forward over the next year.
And probably more important you put another $2 billion of capital in the ground which should give you leverage.
So I guess I struggle to see why you would only expect to grow $0.30 over the next year when you expected to grow $0.35 if we go back 1 year over the future year.
But yet things seem to look better both from a macro perspective and certainly much larger from a capital base perspective.
All right.
So if I step back and think about our view last year this time we anticipated that each of the geographies had bottomed out and we're going to see sequential growth through the course of FY '13 with a particularly strong second half of the year in FY '13.
We didn't see it.
For each of the different geographies we kind of saw the slow point the low point of their manufacturing output sometime during FY 13.
U.S.
maybe the beginning of the summer.
Europe maybe late winter.
And Asia somewhere in that same timeframe.
So from a momentum perspective we're projecting going forward solid sequential growth but again recognizing there's a lot of uncertainty in the economy but it's off of a lower base than what we had anticipated last year at this time.
The other thing again that we are focused on are those things that we can control.
So given the fact that the economy didn't play out we delivered on the provision that we took last year which as you know was more focused on Europe.
And now today we've announced a larger provision that is focused on a variety of different areas both from a portfolio perspective in Electronics like we talked about as well as supply chain Europe and then rightsizing in Asia as well.
While we see growth in Asia we have to make sure that we have the right level of resources given the economic environment that we're projecting.
And then just lastly around your comment around the investment that we put in the ground.
We look back at the investment that we've made and the issue is the loading of the merchant investments that we put in the ground compared to the long-term take-or-pay contacts that we have on the Tonnage side.
So as we've said in the past our focus is loading the investments that we've already made and bringing onstream those projects that are in backlog to make sure that we have profitable growth not only in '14 but also '15 and '16.
We'll go next to Mike Harrison at First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions related to the NF3 capacity rationalization.
How much capacity is going to be taken out at the hometown plant? What portion of the total NF3 production does that represent? And are we just seeing some lower demand overall driving the overcapacity or are you starting to see competition from increasing use of on-site fluoride? It's a good question Mike.
So first of all we are really not seeing any penetration of on-site fluorine.
That's being talked about in the industry for at least 10 year and we have not seen any significant impact.
As Scott mentioned what has really driven the NF3 supply demand dynamics is the lack of expected growth from PV.
That was expected to grow and use up a fair amount of NF3.
It hasn't happened.
So over the last year or so you've been hearing us talk a little bit more about volume pressure and price pressure.
So we've taken an action to rationalize some capacity in the U.S.
We're still going to manufacture in the U.S.
There are still demand for NF3 in the U.S.
but we expect to take about 20% to 25% out of our NF3 global manufacturing footprint with these actions.
Research Division</strong> And then looking at the weakness in Asia Merchant pricing.
Last quarter you had noted some competitive pressures you saw.
It looks like those may have intensified this quarter.
Are those pressures showing any signs of easing? And are you guys working to increase the amount of Merchant sales under contract as opposed to selling through wholesalers in China? It's a great question Mike.
And really I'm glad you've made that last point because that's a really interesting dynamic in China.
That isn't as common in other regions for the Merchant business and that's the presence of the wholesale market.
So a couple of things here.
First of all existing Chinese on-site customers who also build some liquid capacity when they're running hard particularly a steel mill they'll use up all their own capacity and sometimes actually import some product.
When they're not running so hard not only do they not import but they can export as well.
And you have a set of folks who play kind of a wholesale place in the supply chain there.
So there is more volume/price dynamic in the wholesale market in China than we see -- there isn't a similar market in other regions.
So we would not be surprised to see a little bit more volume/price changes as a result of the wholesale market.
To answer the other part of your question we absolutely are working hard and are increasing if you will the retail side of the business but at the same time acknowledging the wholesale market is a good place to move product particularly when assets are unloaded.
And I think this isn't too unusual if you think about the evolution of the various markets across the globe.
The more mature markets have gone pretty much to the industry -- the customers who supply for the industry.
You're going to have this mix for a while but it's something I think we understand and absolutely something we'll be driving to the points that Simon made as it relates to how we contract and how we make investment decisions in that market going forward.
And just to get to the crux of the question though are the competitive pressures easing and you're seeing some improvement in the pricing dynamics or not really? I would say it continues to be a competitive market Mike.
And we'll go next to Mike Sison of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of I just wanted to get your perspective.
You have another year under your belt in thinking about this 20% operating margin goal that you have out there.
Do you feel better about Air Products potentially getting there? Any structural reasons that hinder that potential longer term? And I'm not going to pin you on when but when you think about that goal is it still something that you think the company can get to? Yes.
Well from my perspective those goals were put at a time where we expected a much different economic environment.
I think the important thing though for us to focus on is our return on capital employed.
And as Scott mentioned earlier we when we begin to bring these new on-sites on and put it behind us given the stepped-up investment that we have I see a way to continuing to improve our return on capital employed and moving towards one of the industry-leading return on capital employed numbers out there from a spread over our cost of capital.
And so looking forward if I look at our portfolio if I look at how we position the business the world sort of played out a little differently than we anticipated.
But on the plus side the opportunities in some of our leading marketplaces like tonnage and hydrogen and electronics have played out better.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And a quick follow-up Scott maybe on the new projects the $0.20 $0.25.
It sounds like maybe Merchant is going to be a bigger portion of that than we might have thought in the past as some of the tonnage got pushed out.
Any thoughts on the split between the 2? There's a lot of Tonnage in there.
I mean recognizing that as the backlog gets worked in as we mentioned previously the split was more evenly balanced Merchant and Tonnage but recently the backlog has been over 80% -- 80% 85%.
And so it's a combination of both but there's a heavy element of take-or-pay terms.
And so we feel good about that volume growth projection from new assets into '14 as well as '15 and '16.
John? Yes.
Let me just wrap up by saying first thanks to Audra and then conclude with saying our focus on increasing shareholder value remains unwavering.
Our emphasis on cost reduction productivity improvement and disciplined project execution remains key priorities.
Our future prospects are strong given our record project backlog and a significant leverage in our existing assets.
Please go to our website to access the replay of this call beginning at 2 p.m.
today.
And thank you for joining us and have a great and safe day.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Again thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Air Products and Chemicals' First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also this telephone conference presentation and the comments made on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
Air Products will be recording this teleconference and may publish all or a portion of the teleconference.
No other recording or redistribution of this telephone conference by any other party are permitted without the express written permission of Air Products.
Your participation indicates your agreement.
Beginning today's call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Moore you may begin.
Thank you Whitney.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Air Products' First Quarter Results Teleconference.
This is Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
I'm pleased to be joined today by John McGlade our Chairman President and CEO; and Scott Crocco our CFO.
John will make a few opening remarks Scott will review our results and update our outlook and I will provide a perspective on each of our operating segments.
After our remarks we'll be pleased to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We issued our earnings release this morning.
It's available on our website along with the slides for this teleconference.
Please go to airproducts.com to access the materials.
Please turn to Slide 2.
As always today's teleconference will contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions.
Please review the information on this slide and at the end of today's earnings release the explaining factors that may affect these expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to John.
Thank you Simon and let me also wish everyone a good morning.
We appreciate you joining us on the call today.
Please turn to Slide 3.
We delivered on our commitments during the first quarter of fiscal year '14.
We continued to execute on our strong backlog including bringing onstream 2 new projects in China; execute on our asset loading plans with strong volume growth in Merchant and Electronics and Performance Materials; deliver on our cost reduction programs.
We are on track and seeing the savings from the program we announced last quarter and we remain focused on winning profitable new projects.
Together these factors enabled us to deliver the Q1 earnings results you see today which are at the top of our guidance range.
Our focus has not changed and we remain committed to delivering on our priorities for 2014.
The investments we have made over the past several years the position of our portfolio and our ability to execute going forward are key drivers for Air Products' future.
We believe shareholders will realize increasingly stronger returns as earnings growth from the profitable projects in our backlog contribute in 2014 and accelerate in 2015 and 2016.
Now let me turn over the call to Scott to review our results.
Thanks John.
Turning to Slide 4 let me now take you through our fiscal Q1 results.
For the quarter sales of $2.5 billion were flat excluding the PUI business.
Overall sales were 1% lower than prior year on slightly lower volumes and stable pricing partially offset by higher energy passthrough.
Volumes were higher in all segments except for Tonnage Gases.
Last quarter we told you that a significant number of our customers would have scheduled outages in 2014.
The reduced volume you see in Tonnage is largely a result of this and was expected.
Sequentially overall sales decreased 2% on 3% weaker volumes.
This was mainly due to seasonality in our Merchant Gases and Electronics and Performance Materials businesses and the outages in Tonnage.
Operating income of $386 million increased 4% versus prior year on strong results in our Electronics and Performance Materials and Equipment and Energy business segments.
Our operating margin of 15.1% was up 60 basis points versus prior year primarily due to a more favorable business mix as higher volumes across most businesses were partially offset by Tonnage outages.
Sequentially operating income was down 8% and margin declined 120 basis points primarily due to volume seasonality and higher costs driven by Tonnage maintenance outages.
Net income and diluted earnings per share were up 4% and 3% respectively versus last year.
Sequentially net income and EPS were both down 9%.
Our return on capital employed declined by 130 basis points to 9.9% as a result of our higher capital employed and the Indura acquisition.
This remains well above our 8% cost of capital.
As a reminder we are developing executing and operating good projects that will be accretive to ROCE over the next few years.
Turning to Slide 5 you can see an overview of the factors that affected this quarter's performance in terms of earnings per share.
Our continuing operations EPS of $1.34 increased by $0.04 versus last year.
Volumes increased EPS by $0.12 driven by Merchant Gases Electronics and Performance Materials and Equipment.
The positive impact on profits was partially driven by mix primarily the positive impact of more higher-margin sales of equipment business.
Pricing energy and raw materials taken together decreased EPS by $0.05 due primarily to higher variable cost in Merchant and Electronics and Performance Materials.
Net cost performance was $0.01 unfavorable primarily due to tonnage maintenance outages offsetting the benefit of our 2012 and 2013 cost reduction programs.
Currency translation and foreign exchange was $0.01 unfavorable.
Equity affiliate income was also $0.01 unfavorable.
And lower interest expense was offset by higher shares outstanding.
Overall we delivered a good quarter with earnings at the top end of our guidance range based on strong execution and a more profitable business mix.
Now for a review of our business segment results I'll turn the call over to Simon.
Thanks Scott.
Please turn to Slide 6.
Overall the Merchant Gases segment had a strong quarter with stable pricing and strong volume growth resulting in increased utilization rates in both U.S.
Canada and Europe.
Merchant Gases sales of over $1 billion were up 4% versus last year on 4% higher volumes.
Liquid oxygen nitrogen and argon volumes were again up in all regions partially offset by packaged gas demand weakness in Europe and lower helium volumes globally due to supply challenges.
Sales were down 1% sequentially on lower volumes primarily due to weaker seasonal volumes in U.S./Canada and lower helium availability.
We continue to see challenges with reduced availability from our helium feedstock suppliers.
In one case the large supplier moved an outage into Q1 negatively impacting available volumes during this past quarter.
But this won't impact overall FY '14 availability as the unplanned outage was used to address maintenance that had been planned for later in the fiscal year.
Let me now spend a minute updating you on how our helium projects are progressing and what we are doing to help improve the situation.
Our Wyoming plant is ready.
Our supplier's plant has been in operation and so we expect to receive our crude helium feedstock very soon which will enable us to begin to provide product to the market as we move through the quarter.
The Colorado facility we announced last quarter is on schedule for FY '15 startup.
And we have worked with another of our existing U.S.
suppliers to expand our natural gas pipeline collection system to increase available helium molecules.
We expect to see this increase next quarter.
With this new capacity we are optimistic we will see increased helium supply volumes over the next year.
But it is important to remember that the U.S.
government supply about a third of the world's helium supply today is declining each year as the reserves are depleted.
To frame this our new Wyoming plant when fully ramped will offset about 1 year of decline in Air Products share of available helium from the U.S.
government.
In the Liquid Bulk area contract signings were very strong up significantly over last year with Asia and U.S./Canada showing the most growth.
We are seeing the positive impact of last year's strong contract signings on our current volumes and are pleased about future growth from the more recent signings.
Merchant Gases operating income of $169 million was down 1% versus prior year and down 4% sequentially.
Segment operating margin of 16.1% was down 80 basis points compared to last year and down 60 basis points sequentially.
Versus last year the higher volumes improved operating income but this was more than offset by the impact of price versus variable costs primarily power and fuel.
Overall pricing was flat but this includes a positive price contribution from helium.
LOX/LIN pricing was not able to fully recover increased variable costs.
Sequentially operating income was down primarily on the lower volumes and margins were impacted by the under recovery of increased variable costs.
Now let's take a look at the Merchant business by region.
Please turn to Slide 7.
In U.S./Canada sales were up 4% on 2% higher volumes and 2% higher pricing.
Liquid oxygen and liquid nitrogen volumes were up 4% on strength in the Oilfield Services chemicals food and metals markets.
We saw a positive volume contribution from the EPCO acquisition but helium volumes were down due to supply limitations.
After 3 quarters of solid LOX/LIN volume growth we have seen capacity utilization move up to the upper 70s.
There's still capacity to sell in our system but it's great to see the increased loadings.
Overall pricing was positive from both helium and LOX/LIN but we did not fully recover higher LOX/LIN variable costs.
We announced 2 new production facilities for our North America CO2 business in Wisconsin and Iowa strengthening our position in the Midwest to support growth at existing and new customers.
We are pleased with the EPCO acquisition both in terms of the base CO2 business and the opportunities to provide a full product solution to customers who need CO2 and other gases.
In Europe sales were up 3% versus last year due to currency as both volumes and prices were flat.
We did see positive LOX/LIN and LAR volumes but this was offset by lower helium and lower cylinder volumes.
LOX/LIN volume growth was strong in Central Europe and Southern Europe recognizing the growth is from the weak base last year.
Cylinder volumes were down across the continent as construction remains weak.
Overall pricing was flat with positive helium pricing offsetting negative LOX/LIN and LAR pricing.
While LOX/LIN variable costs were flat the lower pricing did impact margins.
And LOX/LIN plant loadings have increased to the high 70s on the stronger volumes.
In Asia sales were up 6% versus last year on 8% higher volumes and 2% lower price.
LOX/LIN volumes were again up double digits across the whole region and in China.
Liquid argon volumes and our micro bulk product line continue to show significant improvements while helium was down on supply limitations.
Plant loadings remain in the mid-70s with capacity additions roughly matching the volume increase.
Pricing was down in the LOX/LIN and LAR business particularly in China driven in part by the wholesale market.
The lower prices and higher variable costs impacted margins.
The Latin America results in the segment include our wholly-owned business in Brazil and our majority-owned business Indura.
While our equity affiliate joint venture in Mexico is not in the segment results our Mexico business did see strong LOX/LIN volume growth of mid to high single digits primarily driven by nitrogen for enhanced oil recovery.
Underlying sales were up 2% on 1% higher volumes and 1% higher prices and there was a negative 7% impact from currency.
Brazil LOX/LIN volumes were up as our new liquid plant in So Paulo enhances our ability to serve customers despite economic weakness.
Cylinder volumes were down as we looked to optimize our customer mix.
Indura volumes were up slightly with modest economic growth moderated by delays in new mining and power projects in Chile and economic weakness in Colombia and Argentina.
We were pleased to sign a new small on-site nitrogen plant likely an opportunity that neither Indura nor Air Products could have won alone.
LOX/LIN plant capacity utilization is in the mid-70s.
And overall pricing was stable with strength in helium and weakness in LOX/LIN under recovering variable costs including inflationary pressures.
Please turn to Slide 8.
As Scott mentioned and as we expected the Tonnage Gases segment was impacted by higher level of outages.
We take the opportunity to do maintenance work on our plants during our customers planned outages and this impacts both maintenance costs and sales.
Tonnage Gases sales of $808 million were down 10% versus last year.
Gases volumes were down 10% as strong demand on the U.S.
Gulf Coast hydrogen system continued but was more than offset by planned outages and lower Latin America volumes.
Lower PUI volumes impacted sales by 3% while higher energy passthrough added 2% and currency added 1%.
We have now fully exited the PUI business as of the end of Q1.
For Q1 PUI sales were down about $30 million and operating income was about flat versus last year.
PUI will be a negative year-on-year comparison for the rest of FY '14 as we had positive earnings from PUI in FY '13.
For the full year we still expect PUI sales down about $140 million and about a $0.10 negative EPS impact.
For the segment sequential sales were down 3% on 4% lower volumes due to the outages partially offset by 1% from currency.
Operating income of $118 million was down 15% versus prior year and down 13% sequentially primarily due to maintenance costs and lower volumes associated with these outages.
Operating margin of 14.6% was down 80 basis points versus prior year on 150 basis points on the lower operating income.
During the quarter we brought the XLX project onstream in China and bidding activity remains strong.
We would not be surprised if we had additional project announcement soon.
Please turn to Slide 9.
We'd strong performance in the Electronics and Performance Materials segment this quarter with solid volume growth and positive contribution from our cost actions.
Segment sales of $579 million were up 5% versus last year on 6% higher volumes and 1% lower price.
Sequentially sales were flat with currency offsetting lower volumes.
Versus prior year Electronics sales were up 4% primarily driven by higher equipment and on-site sales while growth in our ongoing Materials business offset the impact of product exits.
Electronics sales were up 3% sequentially on higher equipment activity.
Performance Materials sales were up 8% versus last year as we saw positive growth across all product lines in all major regions.
Autos coatings and North America residential housing were strong while nonresidential construction continued to be weak.
Sequentially PMD sales were down 4% which is less than the typical seasonal reduction.
Operating income of $84 million was up 36% versus prior year on the higher volumes and solid cost performance.
We are on track in delivering on our business restructuring and cost reduction programs.
Compared to last year we had good news from a specific equipment sale that was roughly offset with a negative impact from inventory revaluation.
Operating margin was up 320 basis points to 14.4% on a higher operating income.
Sequentially operating income was down 13% and operating margin was down 210 basis points primarily due to inventory revaluation.
The first portion of our supply to Samsung in Xi'an China came onstream during the quarter.
We announced this project in 2012 and will continue to bring on additional facets throughout the rest of FY '14 to support the ramp up of Samsung Electronics' largest ever overseas investment.
Now please turn to Slide 10.
Equipment and Energy segment delivered strong profits this quarter as project activity remained robust.
Sales of $111 million were up 4% versus prior year and down 6% sequentially.
Operating income of $21 million was up 144% over a slow prior-year quarter and flat sequentially.
Versus last year more higher margin LNG projects and less lower margin ASU activity drove the profit increase.
The backlog of $343 million is down 12% from last year and down 15% versus last quarter.
In general we continue to see a high level of project development activity but a few projects have delayed their final decisions.
However just last week we were pleased to announce an order to supply our leading technology and equipment to Technip and JGC to build Russia's largest LNG production and export facility.
We will supply 3 exchangers supporting the overall 16.5 million tonne per year project on the Yamal Peninsula.
And earlier in January we dedicated our new LNG manufacturing facility in Florida that will enable us to support strong LNG market growth for many years to come.
As we said last quarter our Tees Valley energy-from-waste projects are on budget on schedule and meeting our safety goals.
We expect Tees Valley 1 to begin commissioning in late FY '14 and be fully onstream in early FY '15.
Tees Valley 2 is expected to start up in early 2016.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Scott.
Thanks Simon.
Now please turn to Slide 11 and let me provide you a brief summary of our outlook.
Economic activity in the first quarter of 2014 was about as we expected in most regions.
Given current economic conditions we continue to be cautious with regard to economic growth in 2014 expecting modest growth throughout the year.
Globally for the regions we operate in we are maintaining a manufacturing growth forecast of 2% to 4% for our fiscal year.
In the U.S.
while some policy uncertainty is reduced important issues remain including a congressional debt ceiling debate and potential changes to the speed of tapering and interest rate adjustments by the Federal Reserve.
Any mistakes in fiscal or monetary policy could dampen growth.
In Europe weak growth conditions remain due to the continuation of austerity programs restricted access to credit and high unemployment.
While there is positive manufacturing growth in most European countries we expect improvement to be moderate.
In Asia manufacturing growth in China and Japan has stabilized since recovering from a trough in the second half of FY '13.
Other Asian markets including Korea and Taiwan continued underperforming.
We expect a gradual acceleration of manufacturing growth to continue led by China.
In South America manufacturing activity has been below expectations.
As the larger markets of the global economy improve especially China we expect modest but improving conditions through increasing global trade.
We expect electronics growth will begin to rebound in 2014 after 2 years of weakness.
However electronics on-site bidding activity remains slow.
Outside electronics our project development activity and contract signings continue to be strong and we would not be surprised if we had new project announcements soon.
Our FY '14 capital spending guidance remains unchanged at approximately $2 billion similar to last year's CapEx spending level.
Also our backlog for the quarter remain unchanged at approximately $3.5 billion.
You can see an updated list of our major projects in the Appendix Slide 14.
We are maintaining our EPS guidance range of $5.70 to $5.90 per share for the year.
Our guidance for Q2 is for earnings per share of $1.32 to $1.37 based on the following factors: on the positive side volume improvement in both Merchant and Performance Materials.
We expect to see higher volumes in North America and Europe partially offset by some softness in volumes in Asia due to the Lunar New Year and in South America due to the summer vacation season.
No inventory revaluation and further progress on our cost reduction initiatives.
Offsetting this sequential improvement in Tonnage Gases profits are expected to decline due to higher maintenance spending as more of our refining customers begin taking their annual outages.
Another sequential headwind impacting our Tonnage results will be our exit from the PUI business.
And in Equipment and Energy we expect lower profits in the second quarter based on project timing.
Now let me turn the call back to John to wrap up.
Thank you Scott.
Please turn to Slide 12.
In conclusion our performance this quarter was driven by our ability to execute effectively on the strategic priorities we set out at the beginning of this year.
We continue to stay focused on executing against our backlog winning profitable new projects loading our existing assets and driving productivity and cost improvements.
Let me now take a moment to briefly update you on our progress in the search for the next CEO.
As you know the board has retained an executive search firm and is looking at candidates who have the right skills and experience to take our company forward.
I can't give much more insight than that but I want you to know that the process is well underway and the board and I are confident that we will find the right leader for Air Products.
Finally as I said at our annual shareholder meeting last week having spent 38 years with Air Products I can say with the utmost confidence that while individuals may come and go the values that drive our organization remain deeply rooted.
These values define who we are and distinguish us from other organizations.
I cannot speak highly enough to the employees at our company and I am immensely proud to be a part of this great group of people.
With that thank you.
And now we are ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
First can you help a little bit as you think about the next quarter bridge on a year-over-year basis how much of a headwind you have on PUI and how much of a tailwind from cost productivity that you've achieved? And secondly on the sort of customer negotiations are you seeing sort of any sort of pushback on projected project timing as customers reevaluate project costs? Or can you give us some sense of how that is being balanced currently? Sure Laurence.
This is Scott.
So first the question regarding the PUI.
We look forward to next quarter.
I think if I got your question right looking at Q2 versus prior year what do we think the headwind would be for PUI? I would put that at about $0.03 or so.
I think that's also in line with what we would expect to see from the cost saving actions both for the provision that we took here in the last quarter as well as the full year impact that we saw from the provision back in 2012.
And just a comment on that I just want to reemphasize that we are on budget and on track to deliver the benefits from those provisions.
The second question I think you had was in terms of the customer negotiation.
Let me just make a quick comment and I'll turn it over to John.
I think from a -- first of all in terms of projects they're underway.
There's been no project stoppage.
Big projects sometimes get delayed but there's no shutdown or anything like that.
Maybe I'll turn it over to John for additional comments.
Sure Laurence.
It's John McGlade.
Yes on -- in the current bidding activity these are large projects large projects that the front end take some time to work their way through feed typically.
Bottom line though is when we look at our CapEx forecast for this year and when we look at the bidding activity as we go out I don't think there's anything abnormal in the context of what we've seen in prior years.
We'll take our next question from Don Carson.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Question on Merchant.
You had an uptick in operating rates.
And I guess the question is you'd talked in the past of 35% incremental margins on Merchant.
So why wouldn't that additional business have helped you more than offset some of the increases in variable costs and lead to a margin improvement there? Right.
So Don this is Scott.
So absolutely when we look at the incremental loading impact we'd still put it at 35% incremental margin or so.
It's just a matter of the timing from the raw material increases principally from power and fuel.
We recognize -- we're trying to work the pricing environment as always balancing it with volume.
Sometimes there's a lag when we see the cost step up from the time when we take the pricing action.
But we've seen the capacity utilization increase and we're getting those incremental margins we expected.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the project backlog.
You had 2 projects come off startups in China.
So can you quantify in dollar terms where the backlog -- where you started the quarter and where you ended the quarter and how you expect that to unfold as the year progresses? So I would say there's always going to be lumpiness as things come on and come off.
And so we're trying to look at this on a total basis.
We would expect it to be bouncing around a little bit but roughly I would say 3.5 or so maybe down a little bit just on the timing of when these things come onstream.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally you -- all of your earnings growth this year is back-end loaded.
So what changes in the second half of the year? Is it acceleration in contribution from your productivity programs? Is it project startups? What -- if you can just go through some of those dynamics? Sure.
So let's think about it.
Again this is Scott.
And let's think about it in terms of the things we've been talking about: loading the assets bringing the projects on and delivering on our productivity.
So from an asset loading perspective we continue to maintain our outlook from the economy coupled with good signings that we've had.
And so the combination of those 2 will see the asset loading continue.
We continue to work to bring the projects on in the backlog.
And as we said in the past there'll be bigger impact in the back half of the year.
And we're executing to the cost reduction program that we announced last quarter.
So all of those things combined will translate into a robust second half of the year.
We'll take our next question from Robert Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> John I'm just curious if you might give us some sense maybe on a bigger picture question.
Curious if you think the gases demand to GDP multiplier could you tell me how it compares around the world and how you particularly see it changing if any in Asia? So yes.
Typically you know that the demand the GDP we actually like to track it closer to the sort of an industrial output or manufacturing type of number.
Varies almost on an S-curve as a function of the maturity of the particular geography you're talking about.
Having said that there have been -- and that typically is 1 to 2 somewhere in that -- in a very sort of middle part of the S-curve it could be a little higher than 2.
What's changed that I think to the positive in terms of demand for all gases if you want to speak to within that context is the phenomena that's happened in hydrogen and the phenomena that's happened in gasification in particular in China in driving hydrogen for refining globally if you will as clean fuel standards translate around the globe and then oxygen specifically for gasification in China.
So I think that those rules of thumb are good over a long period of time in any given year obviously given in particular my comments around these larger tonnage type of volumes.
As Scott used the word they could be a little lumpy based on the timing on when those projects come in to the P&amp;L.
But if you think about one last point if you think about what ultimately drives the demand for industrial gases and try to sort of track that towards the macro trends in the world I firmly and strongly believe the drive for energy efficiency the drive for increased throughput or productivity in the manufacturing process the drive for an improving quality of end products whatever they may be and sort of the over arching environmental regulations and policies bode well for this type -- this industry as we go into the future.
Research Division</strong> And if I might ask a quick follow-up can you discuss what the philosophy or basis for the -- those recent retention agreements were? Sure.
I mean to me they're normal course of business.
We look at that all the time.
And what we wanted to do was not tie any new CEO's hands but really ensure that we have a smooth transition with the next management team here.
And we'll take our next question from Mike Sison with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> The improvement in electronics you noted are you seeing that now and -- or is that going to be a little bit more maybe June September driven? I'm sorry.
I missed the second part.
Research Division</strong> Is it going to be more second half loaded in terms of the improvement there or are you seeing the improvement in electronics now? So some of the improvement that we've seen in electronics is driven by our delivery systems.
And we also typically see a seasonal first half being a little bit weaker second half being a little bit stronger.
But I think we've focused our portfolio on the right products materials and -- process materials and advanced materials.
And in addition to the focus on volume growth we're also taking the cost actions to get our portfolio where it needs to be long term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then John I think you've mentioned that signings of new projects continue to be pretty healthy here.
Are the returns still pretty good in those areas? And then when you think about the second half of the year can you give us a feel for how much of those projects coming onstream will contribute? Sure.
First on -- I think Mike you know you can never fall in love with an on-site project because you're locking in the return on the day that you sign that project.
And so we've been through in many of these other calls.
We got a fairly robust process to decide how we're going to price a particular project.
And if we can achieve the returns that we want from that project we're going to walk from it.
And that is at least how I view tonnage projects.
And I'm very comfortable that the quality of the returns of the projects that we've been signing over the last number of years that are both in the backlog and the new bidding activities meet that criteria.
At the beginning of the year and Scott may want to add a little more comment to this at the beginning of the year we didn't really lay out quarter by quarter the impact of new projects.
But I believe we said it'd be $0.20 to $0.25 in earnings this year.
And as we noted in this release we started up 2 smaller of those projects.
Scott you might want to add a couple more comments.
Right sure.
So as John mentioned I think I mentioned earlier the second half is going to be a bigger impact from new projects coming onstream.
Here in the first quarter maybe we saw a few cents.
However we expect that to increase sequentially going forward.
And we'll take our next question from David Manthey with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> My question is on Tonnage.
If I look back to the mid-2009 period Tonnage was down 6% or 7%.
And given the fact that it's down 10% in volume this quarter and based on your EPS walk on Slide 11 might be implying it gets worse from here.
I'm just trying to get my head around why that would be given the current situation.
It seems that that decline is pretty severe for just some customer shutdowns.
So David this is Scott.
So first of all I just want to make sure as you're looking at it that you recognize there's the PUI divestiture.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then once you adjust for that I mean the big impact has been the outages of our customers and then we take our maintenance when they go down.
And then going forward we would actually expect to see a little bit of a step up in the second quarter as well from outages.
And they had as I think I mentioned in the call last quarter we had a contract termination in Latin America as well.
All those things contributing to volumes being down.
That said we are well positioned to grow in this part of the portfolio going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up.
On Merchant volumes in Europe it seems like eurozone industrial production just started picking up maybe November I don't want to say that one point makes a trend.
But as you're looking at that the outlook for Merchant gas volumes in Europe in 2014 are you more encouraged given the economic data that you're seeing lately? There's always things that are bumping around in terms of headliners and so forth.
I think as we said at the beginning of the fiscal year guidance was kind of manufacturing output for the eurozone to be in the 0 to 2%.
And seeing sequential improvement adjusting for seasonalities as we go forward I think we've seen that recognizing there's ebbs and flows and there's different strengths and weaknesses across the geographies.
As well as acknowledging that from a LOX/LIN perspective we've seen an increase recognizing that we've seen more softness from the cylinder side as well driven by construction.
We'll take our next question from James Sheehan with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could comment on the Merchant Gases business a little bit.
I think you referenced some wins that you had versus the prior year.
Just what is the tone of your net of what you're seeing overall wins versus losses and what's the trend there? Right.
So this is Scott again Jim.
It's a good question.
When we look across the portfolio each of the different regions in the Merchant business we've got solid signings well up year-on-year.
Team's done a very good job.
If we all look at the different elements of the volume growth and I'll take some broad brushes largely applies to each of the different regions.
We've seen the base volume growth in line with the economic environment that we're operating in.
We've seen the impact from these signings.
As we recall we've seen improved signings now for some time and we're seen those volumes come onstream.
And as we look at in a loss business lost for any reason including spot or seasonal activity that's been in line with historical trends.
And so overall we feel good about the volumes that we've been able to deliver and we're focused on continuing to deliver profitable growth going forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just on LOX/LIN pricing it's not moving up yet.
I'm just wondering what level of utilization you think needs to be achieved before you get some leverage on price.
Well so -- and you saw I think we moved up both to the high 70s in both U.S.
Canada and Europe.
Recognize these businesses are very very local.
We're looking in managing the situation in each of those different sub-geographies and making sure we're striking a balance between price and volume and focus on long-term profitable growth going forward.
So as those utilizations move up into the 80s that will improve the pricing environment.
Again recognizing that this is a very very local business and we're managing appropriately based off of all the sub-geographies.
We'll take our next question from David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Scott and John you mentioned the strong signings in Merchant.
Are you gaining share do you think in merchant and if so from whom? I don't think we're necessarily gaining share.
I'd take you back to Scott's point which is you really have to look at the sub-geographies to understand the specific loading in those particular areas.
What we are doing though is getting the benefit from or the benefits from added commercial resources in the marketplace.
So broader coverage and a stronger focus on applications in those geographies where we have product to sell.
And so we've talked about this in the past.
But over the last 18 months or so we really have added in the U.S.
market and target areas in Asia both sales and technology resources to really drive additions to unloaded assets.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And John just on the benefit from new plant startups $0.20 $0.25 this year.
What will be for next year given the high number of plant startups in the back half of this year? So as I said in the script and I'm not sure we're giving you guidance to that at this point but you can expect a lot more than that in both of those years as the full benefit of this backlog really starts hitting in '15 and '16.
We'll take our next question from P.J.
Juvekar with Citibank.
Research Division</strong> My the first question on Merchants.
You mentioned you're building 2 new CO2 plants.
What kind of return on investment do you expect from these 2 plants? Again we don't typically disclose specific project returns but these projects fit right into the core of the strategy for acquiring the EPCO facility to give us broader market coverage and broader -- and better distribution supply chain advantages.
And as Simon commented in our script we're very pleased with how the EPCO acquisition has started up both in terms of EPCO performing at its own businesses is exceeding expectations but also the complementary nature of having CO2 for the food businesses and having a CO2 offering for Oilfield Services has really further helped in the terms of this business and the Merchant business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on on-site you talked about weaker tonnage business spend in Latin America.
I'm wondering if you can talk about that in any particular end market where you're seeing that weakness.
No obviously this is really -- this is Scott.
We had mentioned in the call last quarter that we had contract terminations.
So that's where we're seeing impact to volumes there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's all there is it's all from the contract terminations? Right.
That's correct.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> And then you talked about increasing the geographic density of your assets.
As the portfolio evolves what can you comment on your asset density and how you can increase it? So -- I mean any good industrial gas business looks to continue to increase your density around a given set of assets.
You have to have both the market opportunity to do that and that market opportunity means what are the other asset of competitors in that area and their particular applications.
We're looking at that at a very local level so Scott used the subregion area.
But we're looking if you will at every concentration within a tight geography of a couple of hundred miles as to where can we enhance our position.
So those CO2 assets that we were talking about are examples.
Or building out a micro-bulk offering in China or in Korea or in North America are other examples of it.
So sometimes you're looking at adding a LOX/LIN/LAR plant as we do in the Oilfield Services area.
Sometimes you're looking at adding a complementary product line.
Frankly sometimes you're looking at adding those resources I talked from a technology sales point.
Each and everyone varies greatly by the dynamics of the market and your position in that market at a very local level.
And that's what the team is constantly looking at and doing.
And we'll take our next question from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow-up on Tonnage volumes.
As the outages come back on line and you anniversaried the contract expiration would you expect volumes to turn positive in that segment by the end of the fiscal year? So when we look at the outage profile here going through the year we'd expect the second quarter to increase as folks take additional outages.
And then in the back half of the year we'd expect to see volumes increase especially during the summer season which is traditionally the high operating level for the industry.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question is for Scott on foreign exchange.
We've seen a lot of volatility in the U.S.
dollar versus emerging market currencies in particular.
Wondering if you have made any changes in your assumptions in that regard in terms of your $5.70 to $5.90 EPS range for the year or whether there are other factors offsetting how are you thinking about the dollar? Yes.
So obviously we're not in the business -- I'm not in the business of forecasting currencies.
We're certainly not in the business of speculating on them.
As we saw in our results this quarter we saw the euro strengthening.
We saw weaknesses in the Chilean peso the Brazilian real and I don't know where that's going to move going forward.
Frankly we're talking about just translation.
And so it's going to be what it's going to be.
What we are focused on is making sure in each of those different market those local market that we understand the current business environment and we're driving profitable improvement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question if I may.
Can you comment on helium pricing and I guess more broadly as you increase your available supply over the next say 1 to 2 years how should we be thinking about the translation into your earnings stream? Simon? Yes.
Thanks Kevin.
I think just first of all was we talked helium prices have been increasing over the last few years while volumes have been declining.
The team's done a tremendous job of quite frankly there hasn't been a factor we've talked about at the earnings line it has impacted topline volumes.
So as we look to the future and we're optimistic we'll see some increased volumes.
I think the rate of the helium price increase probably moderates.
But I think that will continue to be relatively neutral at the profit line going forward.
We'll take our next question from Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First on the down 10% volume in Tonnage x PUI how much of that was outages and how much of that was the contract rolling over? The biggest impact -- Duffy this is Scott.
The biggest impact was the outages with the smaller impact being the contract termination.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then so this was an extraordinarily large turnaround season for your customers is that the way to think about it? I think if we look back at the last few years last several years just the timing of when customers are taking the outage this year's a little bit above average.
And again as I mentioned before we saw outages this quarter we'd expect to see a little bit of a step up in the number of outages in the impact next quarter and then trailing off in both Q3 and Q4.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But then year-over-year into next year that should be a nice tailwind maybe 5% to 6%.
So we should think about maybe the base to grow from next year was $100 million or $850 million as opposed to the $808 million because of the onetime large turnaround season? Yes.
I mean there's always different turnarounds.
But I think at this point in time as we look forward to where our customers are telling us they're going to take outages we would be at a tailwind next year versus this year.
Recognize too we've done a nice job growing this business over many decades and so as we get more hydrogen more hydrogen plants we're going to have more outages right as just we -- as we are bigger in this part of the portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then if we jump to the Equipment and Energy business you guys were fairly I don't want to say negative on the last quarter but certainly you were guiding down that segment quarter-over-quarter.
Seemed to come in a lot stronger.
I would think equipment has a decent lead time to it but why was that that it ended up being so much stronger than you guys would have expected a quarter ago? Duffy this is Scott again.
This is just timing as we work through various projects.
And so nothing major it's just that the processing of the projects that are in backlog.
We still have the same full year outlook for the segment.
That's right.
It's just timing brought forward a little bit.
Research Division</strong> And then just the last one on the nice number of signings that you've got recently in Merchant.
How should we think about those as far as the effect on pricing? Is it fair to assume that they have a little bit of a negative influence on pricing? In general -- so just to be clear we're always managing the price volume trade-off right.
In general when we look at new opportunities the price depending on the subregions might be a little lower than average and then you are able to work the price up over time.
But let's just be clear.
We're making sure that we are managing that combination we're not dropping price simply to be able to load the facility.
We'll take our next question from Mark Gulley with BGC Financial.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to dig a little bit deeper with respect to the margin pressure in Merchant which is your largest business so clearly that's maybe a source of concern.
You've talked about the lag effect of formulaic passthrough of input cost.
Is that going to persist for a while or should we anticipate a catching up effect where you can get genuine margin improvement because of the incremental leverage you've already addressed? So we need to obviously drive the margin up in Merchant.
That's our #1 priority.
And that's going to be a combination of loading as you noted.
And as Scott mentioned earlier as we would see pricing I'm sorry loading in the market begin to cross the 80% at a local level you have an opportunity I think to get more real pricing increases.
And frankly to your point there is a lag effect.
That lag effect is more pronounced when you have a big step function change in those inputs.
And over the last several months I think we could see where natural gas has gone where diesel has gone and we've got to work that.
But the team understands that they've got to work that and we're out doing that day in and day out.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Secondly I wanted to dig a little bit deeper on the Tonnage thing.
You talked about customer outages particularly as Scott referenced the larger pipeline network of hydrogen.
Is it possible that as the crudes slate get lighter and sweeter customers have less need for hydrogen so they might call it an outage that they've taken a unit down for HDS or whatever but in fact just because they've changed their crude slate? No these are -- I appreciate the point but these are really truly outages that turn around.
This is very common part of the year where you go from home heating oils to transportation fuels in calendar quarter 1 and part of calendar quarter 2 as you start for the summer driving season so to speak.
The other point I'd make is on the whole light sweet crude thing we've looked at that.
And we've looked at that so many different ways and we don't really see a material impact to our business.
The other thing that you got to keep in mind is the refineries in the Gulf Coast that can use the heaviest sturdiest crudes they're going to tend to run those with a lot of that lighter sweeter crude predominantly going into those refineries that haven't made the investment to be able to use the more challenged crudes.
The other point that I think we got to keep in mind is when refining the amount of power and steam and hydrogen that goes in to refine a barrel of oil in the United States comes from a very advantaged natural gas price versus sort of the rest of the globe where you've got to create that energy and that hydrogen and that theme from $100 a barrel of oil or $90 a barrel of oil.
And so there's an implicit invested or capital advantage already further leveraged by a nice operating cost advantage on the spread between natural gas and oil.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that John.
If I could just wrap up.
I know you listen to all your shareholders but I'm thinking you listen maybe a little bit more carefully to your largest holder.
Can you kind of update us on the kind of input you received from that shareholder and how you're kind of thinking about some of the things you've talked about? So you hit the nail on the head.
We do listen to the best of our ability to all of our shareholders.
And to be quite honest I would never disclose what one shareholder says to me versus another.
I just don't think it'd be appropriate.
However those dialogues with any particular shareholder are all within the context of Reg FD.
And each one of them has a little bit different view of how the business should be run where we should invest what we shouldn't do.
But I think everybody has an aligned view of we need to improve our earnings we need to improve our returns and I'm totally aligned with that as you've heard in this call and as you've heard from many of our calls and we're very focused on that.
We'll take our next question from Jeffrey Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So in thinking about your returns for the quarter they're puzzling in that I think in response to Don's question you said "Well you know our Merchant incremental returns are 35%." And so absent the cost inflation you should have been up $13.5 million but you were down a couple of million.
So in Tonnage you had these difficulties with contract terminations and turnarounds.
Is the first half cost structure just tremendously unusually high and that is the way that you can make your earnings guidance in the second half? Or can you quantify how unusually high the first and second quarter cost structure is? Jeff this is Scott.
So maybe -- first of all I wouldn't call the cost structure unusually high.
But if we step back and think about the impact from the Tonnage outages maybe in broad brush kind of $0.05 or $0.06 from both the combination of higher maintenance expense that we saw as well as the impact from the volume.
So the combination of those 2 are going to reduce the return.
And again going forward we expect to see continued outages and would see a step up from maintenance cost of another $0.03 or so going forward.
And again I'd reemphasize the other things going on in the portfolio including PUI which accounting rules preclude us from putting in discontinued operations.
But it's a wind down and as Simon mentioned we exited that business in December but it's going to be a headwind both from a sales and from an earnings perspective.
And so I think as we mentioned at the beginning of the year PUI I think we said about $0.10 headwind really driven by the earnings that we saw last year and then having the full year impact in '14.
Recognize we did have one quarter's worth of results here in this year.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess what I'm trying to say is it looks like you're going to earn $2.70 in the first half and the low point of your guidance is $5.70 so you've got to earn $1.50 a quarter in the second half and going -- up $0.15 a quarter is about $45 million or $43 million in operating income.
So how do you do that? How do you get such a big change in the second half? So as I mentioned so we've got the impact from our signings.
We recognize the economy is going to be a factor but what we've seen so far this year is consistent with our original guidance.
You couple that economic environment with the signings and bringing those signings onstream.
And I think you can see in the Merchant results from the loading perspective.
We've seen those impacts.
We also then through the year we're going to see the impact from the provision actions that we announced last quarter.
And again that's broad brush across the Merchant business as well as restructuring actions we're taking inside of the Electronics business as well as some corporate functions and then focus on bringing onstream the projects that are in backlog good profitable projects that when they come on will be accretive to earnings return on capital cash flow.
We'll take one more question.
We'll take our last question from Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
I guess this is just a follow-up.
In the last quarter you gave some very specific bridge guidance from last year to this year.
It sounds like you're still expecting the $0.20 to $0.25 from new plants and you're not going to make a call on FX rates but is everything else the same principally the base business $0.05 to $0.15 and the cost being plus 15 and any of those other items has anything changed? No Vincent.
This is Scott.
No change from the -- for both from the guidance as well as the walk that we gave for you this day.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then quickly just do you have -- do you know offhand what your ROCE would be x Indura sort of on the same-store sales basis? Roughly the impact from Indura would maybe be 50 70 basis points something on that nature.
Let me just wrap up by saying our focus on increasing shareholder value remains unwavering and our future prospects are strong given our record project backlog and the significant leverage we have on our existing assets.
I and the whole team thank you for joining us today.
And have a great and safe day.
Thank you Whitney.
This now concludes the presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Air Products and Chemicals Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) This telephone conference presentation and the comments made on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
Air Products will be recording this teleconference and may publish all or a portion of the teleconference.
No other recording or redistribution of this telephone conference by any other party are permitted without the expressed written permission of Air Products.
Your participation indicates your agreement.
Beginning todays call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Moore you may begin.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Derrick.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Air Products second quarter 2014 results teleconference.
This is Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
I am pleased to be joined today by John McGlade our Chairman President and CEO; and Scott Crocco our CFO.
John will make a few opening remarks Scott will review our results and update our outlook and I will provide perspective on each of our operating segments.
After our remarks we will be pleased to take your questions.
Please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
We issued our earnings release this morning.
Its available on our website along with the slides for this teleconference.
Please go to airproducts.com to access the materials.
Please turn to Slide 2.
As always todays teleconference will contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions.
Please review the information on this slide and at the end of todays earnings release the explaining factors that may affect these expectations.
Now I will turn the call over to John.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Simon.
And let me also wish everyone a good morning.
We appreciate you joining us on the call today.
Please turn to Slide #3.
Bottom line is we continued to deliver on our commitments during the second quarter.
Earnings are within our guidance range despite a $0.03 to $0.04 negative impact from adverse weather in the United States and Canada which to be clear we expect to recover the effects of in Q3 and Q4.
We are executing on the projects in our backlog.
We brought on-stream two major projects in our pipeline networks.
One is the new hydrogen plant Louisiana supporting the worlds largest hydrogen system in the United States Gulf Coast and the second is the new nitrogen plant in the Tainan Science Park in Taiwan supporting some of the worlds leading semiconductor manufacturers.
We are driving asset loadings with strong volume growth in Merchant and Electronics and Performance Materials.
We continue to deliver on our cost reduction programs.
We were on track and seeing the savings from the program we announced last year and we raised the dividend by 8.5% making this the 32nd year of consecutive increases.
However we can do more.
We need to continue to improve our productivity and the results from higher asset loadings and we are aggressively managing price and cost.
Your products management team remains committed to driving increasing shareholder value.
The investments we have made over the past several years the strength and position of our portfolio and our ability to execute going forward will drive a very positive future for Air Products.
I also realized many of you are interested in an update on the progress of the search for a new CEO.
As I shared with you previously the Board is working with an executive search firm to find the right high-quality candidate who has the skills and expertise to take our company forward.
While I am purposely not involved in that process I know that there has been significant productive activity and I remain confident that we will find the right leader for Air Products within the expected timeframe we previously shared.
Now let me turn the call over to Scott to review our results.
Thanks John.
Turning to Slide 4 let me now take you through our fiscal Q2 results.
For the quarter sales of $2.6 billion were 4% above prior year on higher energy pass-through and stronger volumes primarily in our Merchant Gases and Electronics and Performance Materials segments.
Underlying sales were up 2% excluding the polyurethane intermediates or PUI business.
As we have mentioned previously a significant number of our tonnage gases customers had scheduled outages this quarter impacting our volumes.
Sequentially overall sales increased 1% on higher energy pass-through.
Underlying volumes were 1% lower primarily due to the impact from Lunar New Year which more than offset the seasonal upturn in our Performance Materials business.
Operating income of $385 million decreased 1% versus prior year as strong results in our Electronics and Performance Materials and Equipment and Energy segments were more than offset by lower Merchant and Tonnage gases results.
Tonnage was impacted by the customer outages I just mentioned and Merchant was affected by the unusually harsh U.S.
Canada weather which impacted power costs and our operations.
As John said we expect to recover the weather related costs over the next two quarters.
Our operating margin of 14.9% declined 80 basis points versus prior year as the positive contribution from higher volumes was offset by the higher costs and the dilutive effect of higher energy cost pass through.
Net income and diluted earnings per share were 2% and 4% lower respectively versus last year.
Our return on capital employed declined 120 basis points to 9.7% as a result of higher capital employed lower earnings and the Indura acquisition.
This remains well above our 8% cost of capital.
I want to remind you that the new projects we are developing executing and operating will be accretive to ROC over the next few years.
Turning to Slide 5 you can see an overview of the factors that affected this quarters performance in terms of earnings per share.
Our continuing operations EPS of $1.32 decreased by $0.05 versus last year.
Volumes increased EPS by $0.12 driven by the strong performance in our Electronics and Performance Materials and Equipment and Energy segments.
Volumes were also higher in Merchant Gases.
Pricing energy and raw materials taken together decreased EPS by $0.07 due primarily the higher variable cost in Merchant and Electronics and Performance Materials including the impact of weather on power costs.
Net cost performance was $0.04 unfavorable as higher costs primarily due to the planned Tonnage maintenance outages and inflation offset the benefit of our 2012 and 2013 cost reduction programs.
The impact of the PUI business exit was about $0.03.
Equity affiliate income was down about $0.03 due mainly to weaker emerging market currencies and some one-time items.
In general the underlying business performance remained solid and we expect equity affiliate income to rebound next quarter.
Lower interest expense contributed $0.01 a slightly lower tax rate and non-controlling interest together contributed $0.01.
For FY 14 we expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 24% unchanged from last year.
And finally higher shares outstanding reduced earnings per share by $0.02.
Now for a review of our business segment results I will turn the call over to Simon.
Investor Relations</strong> Thanks Scott.
Please turn to Slide 6 overall the Merchant Gases segment had a challenging quarter that included the negative effect of the adverse winter weather in U.S.
Canada.
However we see this as a timing issue and expect to fully recover those lost profits in Q3 and Q4.
We have a robust set of actions in place that we are confident will drive improvement in this business.
Merchant Gases sales of over a $1 billion were up 4% versus last year on 4% higher volumes.
All regions showed positive liquid oxygen nitrogen and argon volumes but this was partially offset by lower helium volumes globally due to supply challenges and continued packaged gas demand weakness in Europe.
Sales and volumes were down 1% sequentially due to economic weakness in South America and the Lunar New Year slowdown in Asia.
With regard to helium we continued to see challenges from reduced feedstock availability particularly driven by low LNG production levels in Algeria and the continuing decline in crude deliveries from the U.S.
government.
Our new helium plant in Wyoming has produced some product during a short period of acceptable feed gas supply.
We expect to ramp production and begin exporting product this quarter as our supplier lines out their gas processing plant.
We are just beginning to see an increase in crude from one of our existing U.S.
suppliers as a result of working with them to expand their natural gas pipeline collection system.
And our Colorado facility is on schedule for FY 15.
We expect this additional supply to roughly offset the declines from the U.S.
government over the next year or so.
Merchant Gases operating income of $143 million was down 15% versus prior year and sequentially.
Segment operating margin of 13.8% was down 300 basis points compared to last year and down 230 basis points sequentially.
There were a number of factors that negatively impacted profits despite volumes being up.
To be clear additional volume that improves loading on our existing facilities has in general been consistent with the 30% to 40% incremental operating margins we have shared with you in the past.
While we are pleased with our EPCO CO2 acquisition and this is a profitable business in the first year no new investment would show incremental margins versus the prior year.
Going forward loading of existing EPCO assets will provide similar incremental margins as the rest of our liquid bulk business.
And in China the pricing dynamic new capacity the economy and the wholesale market limit incremental profit growth.
We took actions to recover the U.S./Canada weather-related costs in Q2 and expect to fully recover the net $0.03 to $0.04 impact by the end of the year.
In addition to this weather impact we continue to see price versus variable cost challenges and we did see fixed cost inflation.
And finally last year we shared that we had a $0.02 positive impact from an asset sale.
Now let me share a few examples of specific actions we are taking to drive improvement in the business.
The team is driving China liquid and Europe packaged gas volume improvements in part through enhanced sales incentive programs.
We are focused on delivering productivity benefits including product swaps power management distribution optimization and efficiently upgrading and replacing older plants and of course recovering the U.S./Canada weather impact through pricing.
We are confident these programs will improve profitability going forward.
Now lets take a look at the Merchant business by region.
Please turn to Slide 7.
In U.S./Canada sales were up 11% on 6% higher volumes and 5% higher pricing.
Despite the difficult weather conditions liquid oxygen liquid nitrogen volumes were up 4% on oilfield services food and metals market strength.
We saw a positive volume contribution from the EPCO acquisition but helium volumes were down due to supply limitations.
Capacity utilization remains in the upper 70s.
Both helium and LOX/LIN pricing were positive and we will continue to work hard to recover the Q2 weather impact.
In Europe sales were up 2% versus last year due to currency as both volumes and prices were down 1%.
LOX/LIN and LAR volumes were positive but were offset by lower helium and cylinder volumes.
LOX/LIN volume growth was strong in Central Northern and Southern Europe with the food metals and medical markets showing strength.
Construction remains weak and cylinder volumes were down across the continent.
Overall pricing was down slightly as positive helium pricing did not fully offset negative liquid products and cylinder pricing.
And LOX/LIN plant loadings remain in the high 70s.
In Asia sales were up 6% versus last year on 6% higher volumes.
LOX/LIN volumes were again up double-digits across the whole region and in China all helium was down on supply limitations.
Plant loadings remain in the mid 70s with capacity additions roughly matching the volume increase.
Pricing was down in the LOX/LIN and LAR business particularly in China driven in part by the wholesale market.
Lower prices and higher variable cost impacted margins.
Helium pricing was up.
Let me provide a little more insight into the China market where the liquid oxygen nitrogen and argon business has a slightly different dynamic.
First as manufacturing growth and resultant Merchant demand growth over the last few years has been below expectations there is capacity available across the industry.
We expect Chinas strong underlying manufacturing growth to absorb this capacity but it will likely take a few years.
In 2014 the market is still absorbing new capacity additions from project decisions made a few years ago but we have not approved any new merchant capacity in China in the last 18 months.
Second China has a wholesale market structure that doesnt exist to the same degree in other regions.
Although the outsourcing or onsite model is increasingly popular traditionally large volume customers would buy and operate their own plants.
In the case of steel mills many also have their own liquid capacity.
When the steel mill is running hard they use all their own capacity and sometimes buy additional product from the market.
When steel demand is weaker and the mills are not running as hard they often export product into the wholesale market.
Where we have capacity to sell we are using the wholesale market as an outlet for product even at lower prices as the wholesale market doesnt walk in the lower prices for a long period of time.
As a result of the combination of available capacity in the larger wholesale market we are likely to continue to see volume and price dynamics in China.
We continue to see incremental margins in the context of additional load on existing facilities in the range of 30% to 40%.
However new capacity additions arent incremental and combined with the price pressure will prevent us from seeing those incremental margins in China in the near-term.
We are taking actions in a number of areas to manage the situation.
In terms of demand creation while our volumes are impacted by manufacturing activity we also have the ability to use our applications expertise to help our customers improve their operations or creating new demand for industrial gases.
In February we announced we have signed more than 20 contracts with recycled copper manufacturers in China providing oxygen our patented burner and fully integrated control equipment.
Compared to the previous air fuel solution using oxygen it improves productivity and material qualities or reducing emissions and fuel consumption.
We are also optimizing capacity in regions where it makes sense.
While we are reviewing each point in our system we would not expect this to result in a significant impact.
Turning to Latin America as a reminder the segment results include our wholly-owned business in Brazil and our majority-owned business Indura.
While our market leading equity affiliate joint venture in Mexico is not in the segment results our Mexico business continues to show volume growth driven primarily by nitrogen for enhanced oil recovery.
As reported in the segment underlying sales were up 5% on 3% higher volumes and 2% higher prices.
There was a negative 14% impact from currency primarily from the Chilean peso.
Indura volumes and Brazil LOX/LIN volumes were up slightly as the region experienced slower economic growth than expected.
LOX/LIN plant capacity utilization remains in the mid 70s and pricing was up but still under recovered inflation.
Please turn to Slide 8.
As expected Tonnage Gases saw both the maintenance expense and negative volume impact from the higher level of planned outages as we do required maintenance work on our plans during our customers outages.
Base demand including hydrogen on the U.S.
Gulf Coast system remains strong.
Tonnage Gases sales of $840 million were up 4% versus last year.
Gases volumes were down 3% as strong demand on the U.S.
Gulf Coast hydrogen system continued but was more than offset by maintenance outages and lower Latin America volumes due to our prior year contract termination.
Lower PUI volumes impacted sales by 5% while higher energy pass-through added 11%.
We fully exited the PUI business at the end of Q1 but still se the effect in prior year comparisons about $40 million of sales and about $0.03 of profits.
For the full year we still expect PUI sales down about $140 million and about a $0.10 EPS headwind.
Excluding the effect of the PUI business exit operating income was down 3% versus prior year primarily due to the impact of the planned maintenance outages partially offset by the positive impact from higher natural gas prices.
We saw about $0.05 for maintenance costs and expect to continue to see an elevated level of maintenance activity in Q3 associated with non-refinery customers on the U.S.
Gulf Coast and a few outages outside the U.S.
Air Products continues to profitably grow the worlds largest hydrogen plant pipeline network in the U.S.
Gulf Coast.
We have recently brought on-stream our new world-scale hydrogen plant in St.
Charles Louisiana in part to support Valeros St.
Charles refinery.
And just last week we announced the long-term agreement to utilize the hydrogen rich off gas from enterprise in Mont Belvieu Texas to provide additional capacity for our pipeline customers.
A recent Gulf Coast refinery contract expansion with increased hydrogen supply of potentially up to 50 million standard cubic feet a day is an example of continued demand growth from our customers.
Both of these facilities will be fully integrated with our hydrogen plant and pipeline network.
Please turn to Slide 9.
The Electronics and Performance Materials segment delivered very strong performance this quarter with both businesses showing volume growth and robust leverage to the bottom line from our cost improvement actions.
Segment sales of $592 million were up 8% versus last year driven by 9% higher volumes and 1% lower price.
Versus prior year Electronic sales were up 6% primarily driven by higher delivery systems equipment sales.
Sales growth in advanced materials was offset by the impact of product exit through improvement actions in Process Materials.
The strength of our delivery systems business reflects our leadership positions with key customers.
However given the lack of new fab projects currently being developed we expect activity to normalize to more historical levels later this year.
Sequentially Electronics sales were down 3% on the expected Asia seasonality.
Performance Materials sales were up 10% versus last year as we saw double digit growth from stronger demand and share gains across most product lines and growth in all major regions.
Autos protective and specialty coatings and oilfield continued to be strong.
Sequentially sales were up 9% in line with stronger demand and expected seasonal improvements.
Operating income of $107 million was up 38% and operating margin was up 400 basis points to 18.1% as leverage from the higher volumes was expanded with strong cost performance.
We remain on track and are delivering on our business restructuring and cost reduction programs.
Pricing was relatively stable across both businesses reflecting a strengthening in the electronics materials market.
Complementing our previously announced bulk gas supply to Samsung in Xi'an China we announced the contract award for bulk specialty gas and chemical delivery systems equipment at the same location to support Samsung Electronics largest ever overseas investment.
We also brought on stream the first phase of our expansion in the Tainan Science Park in Taiwan home to a number of world scale semiconductor manufacturing facilities.
We have been successfully supporting key customers in this science park for over 15 years.
Now please turn to Slide 10 the Equipment and Energy segment had another strong quarter as our LNG leadership position continues to drive profit growth.
Sales of $110 million were down 11% versus prior year while operating income of $23 million was up 11%.
More higher margin LNG projects and less lower margin ASU activity drove the profit increase.
The backlog of $338 million is relatively stable.
In general we continue to see a high level of project development activity with a number of awards signed but not yet announced.
Now I will turn the call back over to Scott.
Thanks Simon.
Now please turn to Slide 11 and let me provide you a brief summary of our outlook.
Economic activity in the second quarter of 2014 was in line with our expectations in most regions.
Given current economic conditions we continued to expect modest economic growth in the second half of fiscal 2014.
Globally for the regions we operate in we are maintaining a manufacturing growth forecast of 2% to 4% for our fiscal year.
In the U.S.
some policy uncertainty has been reduced but harsh winter weather conditions restricted manufacturing growth in January and February.
We expect the slowdown to be temporary.
Although still weak conditions in Europe have been improving.
Austerity programs restricted credit and high unemployment remain the largest obstacles to the European recovery.
We expect stronger manufacturing growth for Asia in FY 14 despite a slight deceleration in China.
Improving manufacturing conditions in Japan Singapore South Korea and Taiwan are driving stronger growth in Asia.
And in South America manufacturing activity continues to be below expectations.
The easing of demand for global commodities particularly from China has adversely impacted countries including Chile.
We expect the electronics market will grow in 2014 but likely at a slower rate than anticipated.
We continued to expect FY 14 capital spending to be approximately $2 billion and our backlog at the end of the quarter remained at about $3.5 billion.
You can see an updated list of our major projects in the appendix; Slide 14.
Based on our current outlook for the year our FY 14 EPS guidance range is now $5.70 to $5.85 per share for the year.
Our guidance for Q3 is for earnings per share of $1.42 to a $1.47 based on the following positive factors: the absence of the Q2 weather impact and the recovery of a portion of that in the Merchant business volume improvements across the businesses including new plant on-streams higher equity affiliate results and further progress on our cost reduction initiatives.
Now let me turn the call back over to John to wrap up.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Scott.
Please turn to Slide #12.
In conclusion I want to assure you that our management team and I remain focused on the strategic priorities we set out at the beginning of this year executing on our project backlog driving productivity and cost reduction winning profitable business in the marketplace and delivering profitable growth from our existing assets.
We are confident these actions will generate long-term shareholder value.
Thank you.
And now we are ready to take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from P.J.
Juvekar with Citibank.
Yes thank you.
Couple of questions.
First of all can you quantify the weather impact and then if its increased cost etcetera because of weather how do you plan to recover that in the second half? So P.J.
this is Scott.
So again in the second quarter here we saw higher costs particularly in the Northeast and the Midwest driven by power on the order of $0.03 to $0.04 per share.
Now what we have  and we have recovered some of that during the quarter but going forward we would expect to have a $0.02 recovery in the third quarter and again a $0.02 recovery in the fourth quarter.
So overall for the year a $0.03 to $0.04 headwind in the second quarter and tailwinds of $0.02 in both Q3 and Q4.
Okay thank you.
And secondly can you update us on the six sort of coal to chemicals project that you are working on in China sort of the timing and the returns that you expect especially in light of your cautious comment on the merchant market in China? So this is John P.J.
Those projects are tracking with what we originally expected from a return point of view and from a schedule point of view within the context of recognizing that these are very large projects.
None of these  well few of these projects have liquid of any major amount on them.
Sometimes there is just a little bit of co-produced liquid but these were not justified or built on the basis of the merchant business.
These were straight up onsite projects that had to earn a return on the onsite return and pricing to the customer and a risk profile of those projects.
Thank you.
Thanks P.J.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We will take our next question from Robert Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I am wondering if you could talk a little bit on the electronics side your margin starting to look pretty attractive again where are you in terms of the realization of some of the cost cuts you have done there? And then also could you maybe give some help on the equipment sale I know those tend to be lumpy.
How much was that accretive to the margin during the quarter? Right.
So Bob this is Scott.
As you pointed out we have got a variety of actions underway in electronics both from a volume growth profitable volume growth as well as restructuring asset and other costs.
And those actions are progressing very well.
As you also pointed out there was a bunch of a fair amount of delivery systems that we had in this quarter and while we would expect to continue to see them going forward not at the rate that we saw in the second quarter.
So the electronics team has done a nice job repositioning that portfolio taking the actions that they had committed to and improving the margins recognizing I would not expect to see going forward the same level of margins in the second half of the year that we saw in this quarter but that said continue to see good execution on their part and really turned that business around.
And I know when you guys addressed some of the capacity reductions for ammonia and NF3 you mentioned lackluster photovoltaic demand trends but it seems like maybe things are starting to get better there.
So is there any risk that you maybe cut capacity just as things get better or you have sufficient ex-U.S.
capacity to meet that demand growth? No.
So just a reminder so we have gotten out of the silane and so it was small to begin with and so there is not really any impact there from that market.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Thank you John.
Just on Tonnage it looked like it should be a better second half of the year and a much better 2015 given these new projects coming on stream and a few headwinds for us there how should we think about that earnings progression Q2  second half versus first half this year and 15 versus 14? Yes so I will take the top level here and Scott can give you a little bit more details.
But I mean I think you hit it spot on.
We have been saying for a while that the project backlog as we execute that and bring that into the portfolio is going to drive earnings into 15 and 16.
And as you well know something like 85% of that $3.5 billion backlog is in the Tonnage sector.
As we look to the second half of this year two real key things are happening here.
As you are going to forego some of the maintenance  you are going to get beyond the maintenance outages that hit us in Q1 Q2.
They will be in Q3 but largely back to a fairly low level in Q4 and then we will begin to see the benefits of some of the new plant start-ups in three and then accelerating in four.
Great.
And John just on the CEO search whats taking the Board so long its been now seven months since you announced in late September it shouldnt be this long whats preventing the Board from making decision it probably cant be helpful to the organization not knowing who the next lead will be so why is it taking so long to name a new CEO here? Well we could probably debate what long is but that aside I mean this Board takes and the search committee take this very very seriously.
And they are really focused on making sure that they get the right candidate in this role.
I know that they completely understand their fiduciary responsibilities and the commitments we have made from a timing point of view and they are tracking to that.
Thank you very much.
David this is Scott.
Let me take you back to the first question about the second half of the year.
And I would like to broaden it beyond Tonnage.
As we look at the first two quarters and what we have delivered and compare that to our outlook for the full year recognize there is a considerable step-up in the second half versus the first half.
We will step back and take a look at what the drivers of those things are.
And put about two-thirds of those drivers being specific things beyond just general base business improvement.
Let me give you some examples and let me give you some numbers right.
So when you look at the second half versus the first half for the full year for the full company weather in the second half versus the first half because we dont have any more inclement weather projected in the second half and we do have the recovery of those costs that we saw in the second quarter about $0.07 to 0.08 improvement second half versus the first half driven by weather.
We continue to execute on the cost reduction actions.
Second half versus the first half would be on the order of about $0.05.
Maintenance like we have talked about is going to decline in the second half particularly in the fourth quarter there will be a reduction second half maintenance expense versus first half maybe $0.04 or $0.05.
And then a considerable step-up from new plants as we bring the projects on stream somewhere in the order of call it $0.12 to $0.14.
And that leaves about a third of the step-up in the second half of the year driven by base business improvement and general increases.
So I just want to take you through that and give you some numbers and specifics around the drivers of our outlook.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you Scott.
Our next question comes from Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Thanks very much.
I just want to follow-up on the cost recovery in the second half of the year.
You said its related to largely related to power what is the mechanism by which you actually get that back from your customers that such as you couldnt get it back in the sort of in real time I am just  it kind of feels like spilled milk to me at this point? Right so there is various mechanisms whether thats in the form of formulas as it works its way through various indices or surcharges or just straight price increases making sure that we are taking the appropriate actions given the current situation with the customer and the supply situation in that region.
Okay.
And then just kind of on a follow-up as well to the succession or management issue there is a fair amount as I am sure you are aware of speculation about what could change at the company when new leadership comes in.
So I am going to assume that thats also the case within the company.
What if anything have you been able to do to kind of keep everybody focused and executing on your plan or is it at all a concern for you? Well I think its not a concern.
And in fact I am a firm believer when you look at certain external events whatever they are you really sit down with your leadership team and say look our job is x and in this case our job is running this company and delivering on the commitments that we have made to our shareholders at the beginning of this year.
And I believe that we are doing that.
And to the extent that people arent on board with that then there is another dialog with them.
But from my perspective making sure that there is no lack of clarity and/or accountability around what we need to do we are not going to influence they are not going to influence who the new CEO is.
Thats the board and the search committees responsibility to do that.
Its one of the prerogatives of a board one of their key issues is on succession.
And so it can be an interesting dialog but not one thats worth spending a lot of time on.
And I have been very clear with the broad organization as well as (indiscernible).
Okay thank you very much.
We will take our next question from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Yes good morning.
Wanted to probe a little bit deeper on your Merchant Gas segment margins which declined about 300 basis points I heard quite a few different issues here.
I think I scribbled down five different ones.
Trying to get a sense of how much of the decline might be attributable to transitory issues such as the weather that you discussed versus more durable issues? It sounded for example like the China pressure might extend for a while is there a way to disentangle the margin delta in that sort of simple fashion? Yes Kevin I am going to let Scott give you the details but I want to just be really clear to you and our other shareholders.
I and the management team and the board are not happy with the performance of this segment.
And I have been working very closely with Corning Painter who took over this segment in the early part of Q1.
And with his leadership team I think he has a really good set of actions that vary as you acknowledge by the different geographies and business environments that we are operating in.
But I dont want there to be any confusion that this level of margin performance in this business is not acceptable and that we are absolutely committed to getting the margins in this business back on track to where they ought to be and where they have been in the past.
Scott could give you a little bit more granularity around the specifics to your question but I wanted to really reinforce that point.
Thanks John.
So Kevin lets talk about operating margin versus prior year right for the Merchant segment down 300 basis points.
Of that lets call it 100 basis points is the weather impact.
And again as we talked about that was costs seen in the second quarter that we are committed to recover over the course of Q3 and Q4 right.
Then we also mentioned that there was a prior year sale lets call that impact  thats a one-time item that doesnt repeal lets call that impact about 50 basis points.
Also then the dynamic that was talked about Simons comments around  in China around the wholesale market the pricing environment and the fact that we are bringing on new capacity lets call that another 50 basis points.
And then the balance is what John was talking about costs in excess of productivity actions of about 100 basis points that we need to make sure that we are taking the actions to drive improvement going forward.
I hate to jump back on this question but just to reinforce the point we are answering the specifics because of the question.
They arent acceptable in my views and we have got to be and are focused on not having this dialogue on this business going forward because we are delivering on what this business is capable of.
I appreciate the color.
Its very helpful.
If I can switch gears to the tonnage segment you had outages as you mentioned in the quarter it sounds like there will be some as well in 3Q.
What is the sequential volume differential that you expect looking ahead to 3Q? How much of a pickup might there be as we move forward? So this is Scott Kevin.
So Q3 versus Q2 kind of flat a similar sort of level of maintenance with the fourth quarter seeing a reduction in maintenance expense and of course the corresponding impact on volumes as well.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Just to clarify Scott right that was a comment about the outages impact on volume not a more general comment about volumes.
Yes thank you.
Perfect thank you.
Our next question comes from Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
Just a couple of questions first on Merchant a lot of people have been talking about economic improvement in Europe.
You have got a large Merchant presence in Europe.
I am surprised that wouldnt have offset some of the weather related issues in North America.
So perhaps you could comment on that.
And then secondly are you still looking for $0.20 to $0.25 of EPS from new project startups this year and more importantly how do you see that unfolding in 2015? So first  this is  Don this is Scott.
So first on the Merchant Europe we did see good volume growth in the liquid oxygen liquid nitrogen.
The area that we saw the weakness was in packaged gases that offset that right.
Then your other question around $0.20 to $0.25 for the year yes thats still our outlook.
And in terms of FY 15 we havent quantified what that was  thats going to be but it will be higher than $0.20 to $0.25 as we bring on stream these projects that are in backlog.
And again I will reiterate that overwhelmingly these are take or pay contracts that dont have volume risk.
And Scott you talked about the drag on return on capital from the build out of new projects and I know what about the drag on earnings I know depreciation alone is up about $100 million over the last couple of years thats about $0.35 a share on a full year basis what other drags do you see on earnings as you in advance are starting up these new projects? So I guess if I just take a step back and think about the levers that we have in order to drive earnings going forward right.
So as we brought on capacity in the past so we have talked about this we have existing capacity that can be leveraged.
This is the $1 billion or so of existing sales capacity thats already installed when brought on stream is a 30% to 40% incremental margin given that we are already incurring the depreciation.
Then there is the projects that are in backlog that we have already talked about and we are getting those executed on time and on budget also drive earnings growth.
And then execution and focus on productivity to more than offset the impact from inflation to again drive improvement to the bottom line and earnings.
Okay thank you.
We will take our next question from Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Jeff.
Can you remind me when exactly Tees Valley comes on in 2015 and whats the size of the PCEC Weinan China oxygen facility that comes on in the fourth quarter? So we have talked about kind of the commissioning in Tees Valley 1 to start at the end of fiscal 14 but frankly thats just the beginning of the commissioning.
So we will be coming on line early in fiscal 15.
And in terms of PCEC I dont think we have quantified the size of it.
We are expecting that to be on stream here by the end of the year.
Okay.
And then if I could just make a suggestion your maintenance cost seems to be large and volatile quarter-by-quarter perhaps you can disclose what they are.
And I dont think that it would harm you from a competitive standpoint and it might make the modeling of the divisions a little bit easier? Thanks very much.
Thanks for the feedback Jeff.
Our next question comes from James Sheehan with SunTrust.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just wanted to follow-up on the CEO succession issue I understand these things do take some time but maybe you could give us a little color on the process and what is  why does it take so long.
I am sensing some frustration among investors I talked to you about the pace of the process do you expect this to last weeks or months or is it going to last all the way through the current CEO tenure as its been disclosed? So I said in my opening remarks Jim that the Board takes this very seriously and they are committed to the obligations and their fiduciary responsibilities that we disclosed earlier this fiscal year.
From a process point of view what we said in the past the process is not that complicated in the context of the process which is you have got to hire an executive search firm you have got to come up with a list of viable candidates you have to vet that list of viable candidates and then you have to interview that list of viable candidates and that interview process is with the search committee and then ultimately our full board and that does take some time.
But having said that we understand what our responsibilities are the board understands what their responsibilities and commitments are and they are executing to them.
Thank you John.
Just another question on Performance Materials growth its been very strong recently it seems to be broad-based.
Do you think that growth is sustainable here and what gives you confidence that it will continue? Well I would just say our focus in that business for a long time has really been to grow at two times the underlying growth in whatever market its in through new products that meet the technical environmental and performance needs of our customers and that team in my opinion has done a very very good job leveraging their knowledge of the markets they are pursuing the technologies and product offerings they have to play and the customer base thats going to help them drive new products into the marketplace and then broadly penetrate adjacent markets as well.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Mike Harrison with First Analysis.
Hi Mike.
Good morning.
If we could look at the margin performance in the merchant business by geography I guess kind of relative to that overall 300 basis point decline year-on-year where have we seen margins weaken the most and what regions have maybe been a little bit more stable? So this is Scott Mike.
So obviously the weather impact is the North America comment right.
The Europe margin has been under stress again as I mentioned due to the weakness in packaged gases but I also just want to reiterate that we are taking steps in that business to right-size the organization and make sure that we are focused on the end-markets where we see long-term profitable growth.
And then the South America particularly with Indura as I mentioned in my prepared remarks thats been an area where the economy frankly has been below what our expectations have been but again our acquisition in Indura was based off of a integrated gases marrying a great business that they had from a packaged gases with our liquid bulk and onsite capabilities.
And so we are happy with that investment and see growth opportunities going forward even if we are at a current economic situation that is below our expectation.
And then in Asia would we have seen margin kind of weaker than that negative 300 basis points or not quite as bad? So again a little bit of a dip for the reasons that Simon described during the comments as well around some of the pricing pressures as well as the wholesale dynamics in that market.
Right okay.
And then looking at the 6% volume growth number in the U.S.
and Canada can you quantify how much of that was from EPCO? I think its been about 5% in the past couple of quarters and maybe comment more broadly now that you have owned that business for a few quarters how is that business trending kind of  are you pleased with the acquisition and what has it done for your merchant capabilities broadly speaking? Right.
So you are right its been in the 5% range or so similar to what we have said in the past.
We are happy with the investment and its going well.
We are obviously going through the integration and going after the synergies associated with that acquisition at the same time recognizing its a nice complement to our offerings of CO2 particularly in the foods arena.
And so  and we have already seen the impact and the synergistic opportunities from a end-market of having that offering as well.
And then last question I have is just on tonnage and you have noted customer outages in the business creating pressure kind of a few times and it doesnt sound like the pressure stops here in the third quarter.
Over that time we have seen volumes kind of flat to declining despite new projects despite the Gulf Coast pipeline coming on-stream and these trends in volumes have been detrimentally returns as well.
Can you just maybe delve into a little more detail in what explains the volume performance and why are we seeing such volume pressure at a time when refineries and other customers on the Gulf Coast it would seem like they should be running about flat out right now? Yes.
So again I will just reiterate Mike that this is a high outage season and thats what we are seeing the impact on the volumes coupled again with the termination that we had in prior years so be careful of the comparison point but thats the main driver of the volume.
But to emphasize again as we have said is whats really important is the demand from our refining customers on the U.S.
Gulf Coast is strong.
We talked about a couple of new capacity additions that we are bringing on there as well as some new business opportunities.
So we remain optimistic and feel good about our position down there.
But I guess is if we are talking about outages and having a seasonality around outages and maintenance costs this quarter was bad last quarter was maybe not quite so bad but it was a factor last quarter and you are pointing to Q3 as also being kind of quarter-to-quarter flattish or similar amount of outages.
So I guess again getting to maybe Jeff Zekauskas point maybe we need a little bit more detail on exactly what the drag is each quarter so that we can understand kind of what the underlying performance looks like.
Yes.
And I think Scott said we will consider that comment that when Jeff brought it up and I appreciate you reemphasizing.
I think one of the things you have got to understand about this business and maybe we have got to do a better job explaining it is that you dont take an outage on every hydrogen plant every year and it just so happened that a number a greater number than typical given the size of our hydrogen fleet has occurred this year in these quarters.
And so point noted about us being able to perhaps show some more light to that and we will go back and think about how we do that.
Alright appreciate that.
Thanks gentlemen.
Thanks Mike.
Thanks Mike.
Our next question comes from John McNulty with Credit Suisse.
Yes good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just a quick question regarding the sequencing of earnings and you were pretty clear on the one half versus second half but I guess if I look at your third quarter guidance the midpoint is kind of $1.44 $1.45 that basically implies the fourth quarter has got to be somewhere in the $1.65 $1.66 kind of range.
Thats a much larger jump than you have pretty much ever had going from a 3Q to 4Q.
So I guess whats driving that is it the lumpiness of the projects or I guess how should we think about whats different this time around versus kind of past second half sequencing? So John thanks for the question.
The same fundamental drivers that I described in the second half versus the first half are true for the Q2 to Q3 walk and for the most part the Q3 and the Q4 walk right.
So again just to reiterate about two-thirds of the increase is driven by specific items as opposed to just broad-based general business improvement.
So again lets talk about the third quarter versus the second with the increment weather impact that we saw here in the second quarter $0.03 to $0.04 not repeating and getting a couple of cents recovery on price thats going to be call it a $0.06 step up.
Cost reduction efforts will continue again at a stepped up level for a couple of cents.
Maintenance as I mentioned before roughly flat in the third quarter versus the second quarter and then we are going to start seeing even a bigger impact from new plans coming on-stream and again the rest is going to be from just base business improvement.
And then again I will point out that the other element is in the fourth quarter we will see a decline in maintenance relative to what we have seen in both the second and third quarter and we will see a bigger impact of the new on-stream.
Okay great.
Thanks for the granularity.
Our next question comes from Mike Sison with KeyBanc.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Mike.
John given what you and Corning are working on there was a time when you thought merchant margins could be closer to 20% do you still think thats an area of potential for the business longer term? Absolutely.
This business needs to be a high-teen business on a global basis when its at steady state.
And I have made that very clear to Corning I have made that very clear to his leadership team we need to do that.
Now I believe while  and I want to be clear we gave you some granularity on what happened this quarter and I dont want anyone to walk away thinking those are excuses that they happen they happen but thats not how we can run this business.
And Corning and his team completely understand that and are focused on returning it to the level of profitability that its capable of.
Okay great.
And then just in terms of China can you give us sort of your thoughts on where capacity utilization is either for the industry or for yourself just to give us a gauge of you sort of talked it might take a couple of years to fill that up? Yes Mike this is Simon.
So as we shared with you in Asia our overall LOX/LIN capacity utilization is in the mid 70s.
And I would say on balance its not hugely dissimilar in China.
The slightly different dynamic you got to appreciate is we are absolutely seeing good LOX/LIN volume growth in China.
Again we are also though bringing on capacity additions.
And I will just reiterate what I said earlier these are capacity additions that we made decisions on a few years ago.
We have not made any decisions that new capacity in the liquid business in China in the last 18 months.
So thats clear for us.
And I think you are seeing in the industry in a similar mode.
Okay got it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Manthey with Robert W.
Baird.
Hi good morning.
Thank you.
Just quickly back on the merchant piece where you talk about weather its not so much the weather impact as it is.
I am understanding this is a power increase that the cold weather led to higher natural gas prices which led to higher electric power prices which are your input in the merchant business is that right? Yes thats right.
So this is Scott David.
So while there were some dislocations the biggest driver of the weather impact that we saw in the second quarter was from power including especially in the Northeast and the Midwest where on the increment power is going to be  the feedstock for power is going to be natural gas and there was a big run up in natural gas.
And so thats been  that was the biggest driver so higher variable cost or power cost that we are committed to recouping here in the second half of the year.
Okay.
It sounds like you may have started taking action but given the fact that you are saying over the next two quarters that wont hit a full sort of run-rate until sometime mid this quarter and then have a full impact the following quarter correct? Right.
So we saw little bit higher costs in the second quarter.
We saw some of those costs that were recouped and that number that we gave you $0.03 to $0.04 is net.
And now as we go forward we are going to recover that couple of cents here in the next quarter and then we would expect again $0.02 in the fourth quarter kind of flat Q3 to Q4.
And so overall it will be a scratch for the year $0.03 to $0.04 of bad news seen here in the second quarter $0.02 favorable in both Q3 and Q4.
Perfect okay.
And then just last question on lower equity affiliate income I believe you said that you expected that to rebound next quarter.
I am just trying to understand what is the dynamic thats going to make that improve next quarter relative to this quarter? Right.
So this quarter there was some one-time kind of non run-rate items that were in there that wont repeat.
And so as I mentioned in my prepared remarks the underlying performance in general in the equity affiliates is solid.
And so its the absence of those non run-rate items that we are confident they are going to see an increase in equity affiliate in the third quarter.
Got it.
Okay thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Just to wrap up thanks Derrick and thank you all for tuning in today.
I just wanted to leave you with the thoughts that our focus on increasing shareholder value remains.
Our future prospects are strong given our record project backlog and the significant leverage we have on our existing assets.
We are committed to delivering on the strategic goals that we set out for ourself earlier this year and shared with you.
And Id like you to thank you for joining us today and have a safe and great day.
That does conclude todays conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to Air Products and Chemicals Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) Also this telephone conference presentation and the comments made on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
Air Products will be recording this teleconference and may publish all or a portion of the teleconference.
No other recording or redistribution of this telephone conference by any other party are permitted without the expressed written permission of Air Products.
Your participation indicates your agreement.
Beginning todays call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Moore you may begin.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Air Products third quarter 2014 results teleconference.
This is Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
I am pleased to be joined today by Seifi Ghasemi our Chairman President and CEO; Scott Crocco our CFO and our senior business leaders.
After our comments we will be pleased to take your questions.
Please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
We issued our earnings release this morning.
Its available on our Web site along with the slides for this teleconference.
Please go to airproducts.com to access the materials.
Please turn to slide two.
As always todays teleconference will contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions.
Please review the information on this slide and at the end of todays earnings release explaining factors that may affect these expectations.
Now I am pleased to turn the call over to Seifi.
Thank you very much Simon and good morning to everyone.
Thanks for taking time from your busy schedule to be on our call.
We do appreciate your interest in our company.
Let me first introduce our team who will be participating in this call; Mr.
Scott Crocco our Chief Financial Officer; Mr.
Corning Painter who is responsible for our Merchant Gases; Mr.
Steve Jones who is responsible for our Tonnage Gases Equipment and Energy; and Mr.
Guillermo Novo who is responsible for Electronics and Performance Materials.
Now please turn to page three.
I believe that at this point it is necessary to answer the question that many of you have already asked me or Simon before this call.
And that is why did I take this job? I am here because I believe that Air Products has the people technologies and geographic footprint to significantly improve its performance.
I consider it an honor and a privilege to lead and be part of this exciting time here at Air Products.
During the 1980s and early 1990s I worked at another industrial gas company.
During that time we always compared ourselves to Air Products.
Since Air Products was the best industrial gas company in the world.
I had during that time a great deal of respect for Air Products people and its leadership.
I do believe Air Products has the potential to regain its leadership position.
During the past three weeks that I have been officially here on the job I have met more than 1 000 of our employees in small groups of 50 to 60 people to listen to their suggestions and answer their questions.
As a result of what I have seen and heard in these meetings I am excited encouraged and enthusiastic about the future of Air Products.
I see a team of talented dedicated and committed people who are ready for change they are ready to deliver results and they want to regain the respect in the industry that they deserve.
With the full support of our Board of Directors and the enthusiastic participation of our talented committed and dedicated employees we will move forward to create further value for our shareholders.
Now please turn to page four so that I can explain some of the key principles that will guide us in managing our future.
First we believe that cash is king.
We will focus our efforts to generate cash.
You will notice the use of EBITDA in presenting our results and measuring our performance in the future.
Second I consider capital allocation to be a very significant part of my responsibility.
We will only allocate capital to projects and activities that will create significant value for our shareholders.
This leaves to the third point that in the long run the growth in the per share value of our stock is the true measure of our performance.
Sales growth and corporate size is of no value if it does not result in an increase in the per share value of our Company stock.
And the fourth point is that we believe high performance people want to be giving clear goals and be empowered to make decisions.
A decentralized organization will create lines of responsibility and accountability is the best way to unleash our best people to lead at all levels of the organization and deliver results.
So with those comments I would like to now turn the call over to Mr.
Scott Crocco our Chief Financial Officer.
Scott? Thank you very much Seifi.
Air Products delivered on our commitments in Q3.
Our earnings came in at the top end of the guidance range we shared with you in April.
We are focused on execution recovering the adverse weather impacts from Q2 bringing our plans on-stream on-time on-budget and safely delivering on our cost reductions and loading the assets we have in the ground.
As Seifi said we have a great team that is excited about the path forward.
Turning to slide five let me now take you through our fiscal Q3 results.
For the quarter sales of $2.6 billion were 3% above prior year on stronger volumes across all of our segments.
Pricing was up 1% and underlying sales were up 4% excluding the excluding the polyurethane intermediates or PUI business.
Sequentially overall sales increased 2% with underlying sales up 4% on higher volumes in our three largest segments.
As Seifi mentioned we are focusing more sharply on cash and specifically EBITDA or earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization.
We have provided you a reconciliation in the appendix of the slides.
For the quarter adjusted EBITDA of $653 million was up 7% versus prior year and 6% sequentially driven by higher volumes and new planned on-streams.
Operating income of $440 million increased 8% versus prior year as we delivered operating leverage on higher volumes particularly in electronics and performance materials and we delivered better pricing in Merchant Gases.
Our operating margin of 15.7% improved 70 basis points versus prior year as the positive contribution from higher volumes more than offset higher cost primarily from planned maintenance outages.
As we said last quarter we expect maintenance cost to be lower in the fourth quarter.
Net income and diluted earnings per share were 9% and 7% higher respectively versus last year.
Our return on capital employed was 9.6% 90 basis points lower compared to last year as a result of higher capital employed.
This remains well above our 8% cost of capital.
I want to remind you that the new projects we are developing executing and operating will be accretive to ROCE over the next few years.
Turning to slide six you can see an overview of the factors that affected this quarters performance in terms of earnings per share.
Our continuing operations EPS of $1.46 increased by $0.10 versus last year.
Higher volumes across all segments increased EPS by $0.18.
Pricing energy and raw materials taken together were flat.
Net cost performance was $0.05 unfavorable as higher cost primarily the planned tonnage maintenance outages and inflation more than offsets of our 2012 and 2013 cost reduction programs.
We delivered on the cost reduction actions and are seeing the benefits.
The impact of the PUI business exit was about $0.02.
Interest expense was lower and contributed a penny on lower interest rates.
Our tax rate of 24% remains unchanged.
And finally higher shares outstanding reduced earnings per share by $0.02.
Now to begin the review of our business segment results Ill turn the call over to Corning.
Thanks Scott.
Please turn to page seven.
Overall the Merchant Gases segment had a very strong rebound from a challenging Q2.
Volumes continue to improve.
We showed good cost performance and we successfully recovered the expected portion of the Q2 weather cost.
However I want to be clear.
We are not satisfied with this level of performance and certainly have opportunities to further improve this business.
But that said the team delivered on our expectations for this quarter.
Merchant gas sales of just over $1 billion were up 4% versus last year on 3% higher volumes and 1% higher pricing.
Volumes were lead by strong overall growth in Asia and the U.S.
and Canada and positive liquid oxygen and nitrogen volumes across all regions partially offset by lower helium volumes globally.
Sequentially sales were up 4% and volumes were up 3% as we saw accelerating volumes in Europe continued strength in Asia and an improvement in Latin America.
Our new helium plant in Wyoming is on stream and our supplier of crude helium continues to ramp production.
While helium was still tight during the quarter we began to see additional industry supply reduced tightness towards the end of the quarter.
We would expect the supply and demand balance to shift going forward.
Merchant gases operating income of $174 million was up 5% versus prior year and up 21% sequentially.
Segment operating margin of 16.1% was up 10 basis points compared to last year and up 230 basis points sequentially.
As I mentioned earlier we recovered the expected portion of last quarters unusual U.S.
and Canadian weather related cost and expect this recovery to continue.
While we were pleased with the move in our margin I want to comment on the incremental margin.
We shared with you that we expect incremental margins on existing asset loading to be in the range of 30% to 40%.
A portion of the sales growth this quarter was not incremental loading of existing assets.
The EPCO sales growth was not incremental as this was in acquisition we closed on during Q3 of last year.
Also we shared a number of details regarding the China merchant market in last quarters call.
As you have heard Air Products and the industry are challenged with the supply that has grown faster than demand.
We have not made the decision to add liquid capacity in China for over 18 months but we still have some liquid capacity to bring on stream.
New capacity additions dont earn incremental returns and the pricing dynamics in China also limit margins in the near term.
One note as we look to Q4.
As Seifi mentioned were going to see a greater emphasis on cash flow from us.
As you may remember when we sold our European healthcare business to Linda in 2012 a portion of the proceeds were contingent on a number of business retenders and we move this business to discontinued operations.
The reconciliation is now complete and so we have made a payment to Linda in Q4 of about $158 million.
This liability was already fully reflected on our balance sheet and so have minimal to know -- no P&amp;L or EBITDA impact but it will affect cash flow and discontinued operations in Q4.
Now lets take a look at the merchant business by region.
Please turn to slide eight.
In the U.S.
and Canada sales were up 8% on 3% higher volumes and 5% higher pricing.
We continue to see nice growth in our liquid oxygen and nitrogen volumes with strength in the metals and chemicals markets as capacity utilization remains in the upper 70s a full quarter of EPCO this year versus only month of last year was positive but helium argon were both down on limited supply.
As I mentioned we saw some improvement in the helium supply near the end of last quarter but still down for the quarter versus prior year.
Contract signings for last year remain above last years strong results.
Both helium and LOX/LIN pricing continue to be positive as we work hard to continue to recover the Q2 weather impact in LOX/LIN.
In Europe sales were up 6% versus last year due to currency as volumes were down 1% while prices were up 1%.
LOX/LIN and LAR volumes were positive but were offset by lower helium and cylinder volumes.
LOX/LIN volume growth was solid in central and north Europe and we were pleased to see strong end user volume growth in Southern Europe.
While construction remains weak and cylinder volumes were down versus last year we were also encouraged to see slight sequential improvement.
Contract signings for the quarter were up significantly from last year overall pricing was up slightly for the first time in a year and half as LOX/LIN pricing was flat and both helium and cylinder pricing showed improvement.
The team is very focused on aggressively managing pricing.
LOX/LIN plant loadings remain in the high 70s.
We were pleased to announce the installation of a new air separation unit for AGC Glass in the Czech Republic Asahi Glass the worlds largest producer of flow glass is seeing real benefits from the new plant that are helping them to meet their goals to produce the highest quality glass in an increasingly competitive market.
A great example of our industry expertise enabling us to growth relationship that began in also 20 years ago.
In Asia sales were up 5% versus last year on 6% higher volumes and 1% lower price.
LOX/LIN and LAR volumes continue to be up double digits in China and across the whole region while helium was down on supply limitations.
With the strong volume growth planned loadings have moved up to the high 70s despite capacity additions.
Contract signings for the year remain above last years strong results.
Pricing was down in the LIN LOX and LAR business particularly in China driven in part by the whole steel market while helium pricing was up.
We shared a fair amount of detail on the China merchant market in last quarters call.
As we said we expect the supply demand dynamics to be challenging for a few years but it is encouraging to see an increase in our utilization rates.
We remain focused on using our applications expertise to help our customers improve throughput reduce environmental impact and lower cost while creating new demand for industrial gases.
In Latin America underlying sales were up 4% while currency reduced reported sales by 12%.
Brazil volumes were up and we saw a slight improvement in the Rest of South America but slower growth global economic demand mitigated growth in Chile.
We are seeing the benefits of our cost reduction focus on our business.
LOX/LIN plant capacity utilization remains in the mid 70s.
Now let me turn the cal over to Steve for a review of our Tonnage and Equipment and Energy segments.
Thanks Corning.
Good morning everyone.
Please turn to slide 9 excluding PUI tonnage gases grew profit this quarter as the positive contribution from new projects and strong base business demand overcame the expected negative expense and volume impact from a higher level planned outages.
Base demand particularly hydrogen in the U.S.
Gulf Coast system remain strong.
Overall sales of $835 million were down 1% versus last year.
Gases volumes were up 2% a strong U.S.
Gulf Coast hydrogen demand and a positive contribution from new plants more than offset the maintenance outage impact.
I know many of you have asked about the potential impact of lighter sweeter shale oil on the U.S.
Gulf Coast hydrogen demand.
As you can see from our results over the last few quarters we continue to see our customers running hard with significant hydrogen demand.
While shale oil availability may moderate hydrogen demand growth going forward our U.S.
Gulf Coast customers are also adding heavy Canadian oil sands to a crude slate which bring significant hydrogen demand.
And low cost natural gas creates an operating cost advantage for the refiners allowing them to profitably export refined products.
Overall we may see some growth moderation but see no risk to our existing assets.
Lower PUI volumes impacted sales by 4% or about $35 million and about $0.02 of profits.
As a reminder we fully exited this business in Q1 of fiscal year 14 and for the full year still expect PUI sales down about a $140 million and about a $0.l0 EPS headwind.
Excluding the effect of the PUIs business exit operating income was up 3% versus prior year as the positive contribution from new plants overcame higher maintenance cost.
Despite the cost and volume impact of the outages our team executed well.
Our maintenance cost is on budget and as we said last quarter we expect to see a significant reduction in plant maintenance activities in the fourth quarter.
We continue to execute on the projects in our backlog and while we may see the typical slight large plant schedule changes we are seeing our customers successfully start-up their facilities.
We talked last quarter about bringing on stream our new world-scale hydrogen plant in St.
Charles Louisiana.
Just in time to provide volume to customers as other plants were down for plant maintenance a great example of the value of worlds largest hydrogen pipeline network.
Now please turn to slide 10 Equipment and Energy segment continues to see strong growth as our leading LNG position had a positive impact on sales and backlog.
Sales of a $104 million were up 1% versus prior year while operating income of $70 million was up 9% higher margin LNG projects and less lower margin ASU activity drove the profit increase.
The backlog of $584 million is up significantly as we announced the PETRONAS second floating LNG project order and received other customer awards that have not yet been announced.
The PETRONAS order represents Air Products third LNG order for the developing floating LNG market great result for our technology and our team.
Overall LNG project development activity remains high.
Now I will turn the call over to Guillermo for review of our Electronics and Performance Materials segment results.
Thanks Steve.
Please turn to slide 11 the Electronics and Performance Materials segment delivered another strong quarter as both businesses showed good volume growth and robust leverage to the bottom-line from our cost improvement actions.
Segment sales of $618 million were up 9% versus last year driven by 9% higher volumes.
Versus prior year electronics sales were up 6% with strength across all segments.
Advanced materials showed strong growth as our customers ramped production of their next generation nodes driving demand for our materials.
Process materials also saw volume growth and moderation of recent pricing pressure.
Tonnage grew our new projects on streams and the equipment business was positive versus last year.
Sequentially electronics sales were up 2%.
Performance materials was up 12% versus last year as we saw strong growth across all regions and product lines.
In fact this was a record volume quarter for the PMD business as we benefited from improved global economic demand share gains and successful new product introductions.
Sequentially sales were up 7% higher than the typical seasonal improvement.
Operating income of a $107 million was up 23% and operating margin was up 200 basis points to 17.3% as leverage from higher volumes was expanded with cost performance.
We remain on track in our delivering on our business restructuring and cost reduction programs.
Sequential operating income was flat and margins were down 80 basis points compared to very strong Q2.
Now I will turn the call back over to Seifi.
Thank you Guill.
Now please turn to slide number 12.
Our guidance for the fourth quarter is for earnings per share of $1.60 to $1.65.
We do appreciate that this represents the significant increase from the third quarter and you can see it will be the highest quarterly earnings that this company has ever delivered.
But this is what we have already promised to our shareholders during the last call and we will do our best to deliver what we have committed to.
We have been pull all the operating levers under our control to deliver these results.
With respect to capital expenditure we estimate about $2 billion for the fiscal year.
I think its also appropriate to make a comment on our energy from waste project in Tees Valley in the United Kingdom.
We planned to begin commissioning the first project late in first fiscal quarter of 2015 and currently expect commission operation late in second fiscal quarter of 2015.
I should also add that Im fully aware that all of you want to know when we will communicate more about our strategy going forward.
We just do this and give you an update in less than two months in mid September and by early calendar of 2015 we will have an investor conference when you will meet our team and we will report on the progress we have made in implementing our strategy.
But today I want to touch on another part of our effort to move that products forward that is our company culture.
Please turn to a slide number 13.
Our company culture is an important and essential part of implementing our strategy.
I want to assess the words Air Products culture.
We are a global company operating in more than 50 countries.
Our people in these countries have their own unique cultures and we fully respect all of those diverse cultures.
What Im defining to in this slide is the Air Product culture that is the principals that we will follow when we are at work at Air Products.
We will relentlessly focus to achieve outstanding and world class safety performance.
Our goal is nothing less than zero accidents and incidents.
We will work very hard to simplify our organization and we will focus everyday to simplifying our work processes so that our organization will move forward.
I am very focused on this issue of simplified organization and simplified work processes because I think that is the key to improving our productivity.
We will perform our job in the sense of urgency we believe that the speed of execution is a competitive advantage.
And finally we will act with self confidence believing that we can set high goals for ourselves and have the ability to achieve them.
A positive can do attitude and culture at Air Products is a key element of success as we move forward.
Now we will all be delighted to answer your questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Seifi I respect that you are not ready to talk about the go-forward yet.
I am just wondering if you can kind of give us an overview of your macro view of the world.
I am particularly interested in how you think about growth going forward in Europe and China both from a high level and then maybe from an industrial activity perspective.
Well first of all good morning.
I will be happy to do that Vincent but I will make a few comments and then I will ask it to turn it over to Scott to give you a more detailed view of this but overall we see into economic activity in the United States.
Overall Europe is kind of a stable and we do see significant improvements in certain parts of Asia but as I said I will like Scott to make more detailed comments on that.
Hi Vincent good morning.
So our view of the economy here for fiscal 14 is very much in line with what our expectations were when we entered the fiscal year.
So just to remind you we will talk about in terms of manufacturing output for fiscal 14 we had projected manufacturing output to be up year-on-year from 2 to 4% and again we are expecting this is the year coming like that.
In U.S.
we also expect to see 2% to 4% year-on-year growth.
In Europe 0 to 2% so the lowest area of growth recognizing its also coming out of the recession the latest of all the different regions.
In Asia we have the projection of 5% to 7% manufacturing output growth year on year principally driven by China.
And then in Latin America for the one area we had a range at beginning of the year of 1% to 3% year on year growth frankly thats the one are thats coming in at the low end of the range and perhaps below the low end of the range.
But again overall were seeing the economy in terms of manufacturing output play out larger like we expected when we began the fiscal year.
Okay just as a follow-up in Electronics the equipment trends that were very strong in the prior quarter appear to have continued this quarter and my sense was that that was going to slow down.
Has something changed and will this continue going forward? Ill have Guillermo answer that please.
Good morning.
The equipment orders are strong.
We expect them to continue to remain strong through this year early part of next year and then start tapering down towards the backend of next year.
Okay thank you very much Ill pass it on.
Thank you.
Well take our next question from John McNulty with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
And good luck to you Seifi in your new role.
Thank you John.
So I guess a couple questions.
With regard to your big focus on cash flow and cash generation can you walk us through at least the types of metrics you think are important in terms of how we would be judging free cash generation for an industrial gas company? Well I think that the key area of focus is to make sure that you do projects that do generate cash that means that we will take a look at our hurdle rates to make sure that we have the kind of hurdles rates that then when these project come on stream they do generate the kind of cash that we would want to have.
Are you referring to the absolute number John or just the relative number? Yes if youve got a specific say target for say a best in class thats more along the lines of what I was getting at.
Well it might be a little bit too soon for me to give you a target John.
But we do hope that we will generate a lot more cash than depreciation obviously.
So that what we want to do is that we want to be free cash positive even after dividend thats for sure Ill go.
Great thanks.
And then just as a follow-up I know it is a little bit early in the process but it sounds like you have had an opportunity to meet with a lot of the people at Air Products and I am sure review the business at least to some degree.
So I guess I'm wondering at least at your first blush would you say there are any major issues with regard to the long-term contracts that may not be fixable quickly or would you say some of the operational difficulties for Air Products over the past and maybe the underperformance is more of an operational focus that is something that could be fixed? John I do not see any significant problems that cannot be addressed and cannot be fixed.
Our job over here is not to find excuses and complain about the past our job is here to move forward and deliver results.
And whatever issue is there there might be Air Products is a great company great people and we will be able to address them and solve them.
I am very positive and very excited about being here.
We have a lot of projects we have a lot of exciting things to do some of them more difficult than others.
But thats what makes life exciting and thats what makes discovery exciting and my team over here is very energized.
We will climb many mountains.
We need to climb up in order to create value for shareholders John.
Great thanks very much Seifi and good luck again.
Well now move to Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Yes good morning.
Seifi just following along on your point too of kind of elements of success around the capital allocation I am wondering if you can talk a little bit about your higher return standards going forward maybe as they would be used as a lens to look at some of the stuff that investors have argued back and forth in the history -- so coal gasification on-site in China Tees Valley in the UK the Indura acquisition and then kind of build it and they will come liquid capacity historically.
As you look back at those capital decisions can you walk through how you think those would fare in a new going-forward Air Products? Duffy first of all good morning.
My job here is not to second guess anything the company has done.
Right now as the CEO of the company I own everything whatever it is its Air Products and my job is to look forward not backward.
The one thing that I can tell you is that we will look very carefully at every investment and make sure that the returns are risk adjusted based on the circumstances.
Obviously if you are doing a project in the U.S.
versus we are doing a project somewhere else the risk elements are different.
So I do not want to give you a target because then thats all competitive advantage I dont want to announce our targets and our strategy on a public call.
But the one thing that I can assure you is that we will be looking at all of these targets very carefully and I made the general comment that we will raise our hurdle rates yes.
Okay.
And then you also made the comment that as you talked to folks throughout the organization they were ready for change.
As an employee what kind of change should I expect to see over the next year? Is it getting leaner do we have major cost reductions we need to go through? Is it hustling more to go out and get new business? What kind of changes do you want to drive in the organizational look of Air Products going forward? Well I think Ive tried to address that in my last slide which was fundamentally creating a culture which is focused on delivering results.
We are not running a country club here we are running a company.
And everybody needs to contribute and pull their own weight that is the key issue.
And I think people are ready for that they understand that.
And with respect to I delineated for you the focus on safety fortunately that already exist at Air Products and I am very happy about that simplifying our organization decentralizing our organization and a sense of urgency to get things done.
And I think as I said at the beginning I have met with a lot of people.
I am very encouraged about what I have seen.
There is a very positive attitude and there is a great deal of pride in this company and people are going to rise up to the occasion and deliver and become the best gas company in the world.
Great thank you very much.
Thank you.
From Citi well now take P.J.
Juvekar.
Thank you.
Seifi welcome to Air Products.
Thank you very much.
Air Products has spent about $4.5 billion in CapEx in the last three years but that hasn't really shown up in earnings.
So what is your understanding so far why we haven't seen that impact yet? Well on that front the general comment that I had is that a lot of those CapEx has been spent on long term projects.
I mean you need to judge us on the performance of these projects over the next 15 years better than on the first year that had comes in operation.
Projects get delayed so the customer is delayed and all of that.
So I dont think there is anything basically wrong with these projects and in time we will see the returns.
Our job is that while these projects are coming on stream is to significantly improve our existing operations so that you see that at a better returns and better performance on a short term basis while these projects kind of get on line in the future and deliver the results.
So improving the short term results is something that we need to do that comes from improving productivity increasing prices and all of the other things that one needs to do.
Thank you.
You have a plan of a decentralized model.
Do you believe Air Products is too centralized and do you think decisions like pricing should be made locally? Thank you.
Thank you.
Do I think that Air Products is too centralized yes I do.
I think we should decentralize a little bit more.
Yes.
Okay? Thank you.
Sure.
Well now move to Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Hi.
You spoke about price competition in the merchant markets in China.
When you look at your larger capital projects your larger on-site projects in China over a multiyear period do you now expect somewhat lower expected returns on capital because various piggyback efforts would be diminished by the price competition which was probably unforeseen at the time that the projects were designed or is it independent? Jeff thats obviously very good question.
I think Corning can answer that.
Corning please? Yes thanks for the question.
I think its fairly straight forward.
So if the pricing comes in to be below what we had expected.
Yes its going to impact the return maybe just give a little color on the China situation.
So pricing right now I think has impacted impart by just real retail or wholesale price moving but also as we and others have brought on capacity very typical in the early years to low that with wholesale.
And so as we get through the slug of capacity I think then there is a chance to move more and more to retail using our application skills to sell direct.
And so I think we can look forward to some improvement from where we are today.
And I think you can expect projects that are closer to the coast lets say the south of Shanghai Pearl River Delta well see that more rapidly I think in the north it trends a lot uncovering policy around the steel industry and it just take a little bit longer as we move further west.
Okay.
And then for my follow-up in the tonnage discussion you spoke about hydrogen demand in the Gulf Coast being relatively strong but volume for the quarter was only up 2%.
So what is the magnitude of the hydrogen growth and what are the specific factors or what is contracting that is diminishing the overall level of volume growth? Jeff another good question I think Steve will be able to answer that.
We were discussing that this morning.
Steve? Sure.
I guess Jeff if you look at the Gulf Coast hydrogen volumes over the last seven quarters this quarter was the highest by a fairly large margin so good hydrogen volumes in the Gulf Coast.
What kind of comes out on the other side of that was to cover balances is the outages.
So if you look at the 2% volume growth.
The strong volumes from U.S.
Gulf Coast and a new project impacts are offset by the outages right.
So the outages tend to have an impact on that and particularly its around so I have talked to a lot of you over the years about we have base facility charges they are generally paid during the outages but we also on a pipeline system we have customers and we also customers who pay have a minimum take or pay volume.
That take or pay volume is over a 12 month period so when we have an outage they wont necessarily take volumes and they will make that up over the next 12 months so you do have a volume impact that occurs when you have maintenance outages.
Jeff if I may I think when it gets to the second quarter and third quarter of fiscal year next year I think you will be able to see good improvement in the volumes which would validate the point because we can give you the outages by then.
We will now move to David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Very good thank you.
Seifi there is a very well-documented margin gap between yourself and your US peer.
How much of that gap is gettable do you think and in what timeframe? And even if you can't quantify it maybe qualify your answer in that sense.
David can you wait another two months so that I can address this thing in mid-September.
I will wait.
Yes I appreciate that and then the other thing is that we always like to be number one not number two but we will address that for you in mid-September okay? And may be just one more thing on first blush does this entire portfolio to you make sense i.e.
from the non-gas businesses do they make sense to you longer term in this portfolio?  Well I believe that the entire portfolio of Air Products right now has room for improvement therefore we are going to take a look at that and right now push for improvement rather than saying we want to get rid of this part or that part.
Once we have improved the rating then we have options to take a look at.
So I just want to say nothing is for sale right now we are all focused on improving the performance of all of our businesses and there is room for improvement in all of our businesses.
From SunTrust we will now take James Sheehan.
Thanks.
A question for Scott.
On the second-half outlook being a little bit more muted than you thought a quarter ago is all of that in base business improvement or are there other factors that are in play here?  So the top end of the range that we brought down was really driven more by the on streams from the new plants and its just timing.
Its difficult to predict exactly which plants are going to come up when so the second half of the year as we have mentioned has got about two-thirds of the items are specifics and one-third for base improvement and there is no change to that.
And so we are focused as Seifi mentioned on pulling all the leverage that we have at our disposal in order to deliver on the year.
Thank you.
And then a question for Seifi.
In terms of the way this business is organized we've looked at the merchant business and having margins in that business potentially in the high teens when it's running at a steady state.
Do you still see that as an achievable objective or do you look at the Company in a different way given your cash flow focus?  I believe that we have room for improvement and I like to turn to the gentleman who is going to deliver that for me and thats Corning so Corning?  So I think we have no question in anybodys mind in a merchant business that we can improve significantly from where our returns are now and get back to where we have historically been I think in terms of timing and so forth I dont want to steal Seifis funda for what we might say in September but absolutely positively the ability to improve this.
And from Goldman Sachs we will now take Bob Koort.
Seifi congrats on your move.
Clearly the market is excited.
I think since the day you were announced there has been a $3 billion market cap increase and -- you now trade at a 10% premium to all your industrial gas peers so clearly the markets are embracing it.
I'm curious as you did your due diligence you talked about the Company culture and what you are looking for in simplicity speed and self-confidence.
I'm assuming your view is there is quite a gap between where you want to be and where you are today.
I am wondering if you could speak just a little bit about that.
Or maybe what has caused that historically and how you can remove the impediments to being better in those regards.
Bob as usual you like to ask very difficult questions right.
I think that the best way for me to describe it is that we do have a lot of good people here who remember the past when they were the best in the industry and they want to get back to that.
I think the key impediments to the organization in the past have been simplicity of the organization and the sense of urgency and the speed in making things happen.
And the other thing is I think is the issue of empowerment.
I mean your chance on it company the size of Air Products by having 1% responsible for P&amp;L you need to empower people to make decisions all the way down the line.
So if I wanted to kind of summarize it I think simplicity the speed of execution and empowerment has been some of the issues that we will address and I think that would create a lot of it has created a lot of excitement.
I have spend a lot of time with our people as I said Ive talked to more than a thousand people here and I intend to cover all the 1 000 people but people are very excited about everything I am not facing a resistance of pushing against the closed door.
This is very exciting for me quite answering.
So Seifi would it be fair to say you see it and I agree with you.
I mean if we went back to the 1980s and 1990s you are right Air Products was always considered sort of the premium in the industry.
Is it just a function of we've had a couple decades of accumulated cultural headwind and so you think most of the change that is required is more around culture and less around assets? Is that fair?  I think as we go forward Bob in my presentation you see what I said focusing on I was focusing on the company culture and I think that is a significant opportunity for us then in addition to that we also need to look at the project as we go forward in terms of the returns and also in terms of the structure our geographic focus industrial gases is a local business what is important is your strength in Southern Ohio not your market share in all of the United States.
So we will focus on all of that but yes I do believe that the culture change is a big opportunity yes.
Terrific.
Best of luck Seifi.
Thank you very much.
Looking forward to seeing you soon Bob.
Our next question comes from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
Congratulations to you Seifi.
Given your increased focus on cash flow and your employment of higher hurdle rates in the future can you comment Seifi on the shape of the project backlog and how much that might decline and how much your capital expenditures might come down in future years? Well good morning Kevin first of all.
I think that first of all what is I review is not going to add an effect in our backlog because the backlog is what we have committed and we are going to execute.
In terms of what we will do in the future it obviously depends on the opportunity but it also depends on the cash generation.
One way to focus on cash generation is to cut expenditure and other one is to increase cash generation.
So we are going to focus to increase our cash generation by being more productive and doing a lot of the right things that one needs to do and getting more out of what we have but in terms of what the shape of the future will be it will depend on opportunities it will depend on our ability to generate the cash that we need and then we will see how it works out I dont see a significant drop off because we want to participate in the growth in the industry but we will obviously be a lot more careful about some of the things that we do.
And then second I wanted to follow up on an earlier question.
I heard your comment that you don't have any businesses for sale today.
But are you generally happy with the composition of the portfolio or over the next several quarters should we expect you to evaluate businesses in order to determine whether certain businesses may be core or noncore? Will you be engaged in that way or not? Kevin my job is to constantly review our portfolio and see what can be done to maximize shareholder value.
Im sure you heard me say that Im not enamored with size.
Size doesnt matter what matters is the value of our stock.
So you should expect us to constantly review our portfolio and decide what is the best course of action to create value for our shareholder I dont want to pre-judge that I do want to say that from what I see all of our businesses have room for improvement.
So it would be kind of premature to take any action before you get these businesses performing to the best of their ability.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
We will now move to Mike Sison with KeyBanc.
Hey good morning guys and congrats to you Seifi for coming to Air Products.
Thank you.
Can you maybe comment on what you see is the growth opportunities in the industrial gas industry do you think that Air Products is positioned well to participate in the growth over the next two years as you change the culture? I think Air Products is very well positioned for participating in the future because we do have the fundamental technologies that are required I mean the future in the industrial gases in terms of growth is going to be in the areas of energy environment and all of that products extremely well-positioned in not only large ASUs but the smaller ASUs mid-sized ASUs.
We are world leaders in hydrogen and micro applications.
So there is opportunity I do not see Air Products having a technology gap to prevent us from participating on those growth areas.
Okay great.
And just as a follow-up when you think about decentralizing the business and maybe the way you organize your segments is the right way to manage an industrial gas business -- is it by segment like you have it now or is it by region? Any major changes in the way your operating management will be set up? Can I answer that question for even in middle of September so that I dont get it ahead on myself? Absolutely.
I would appreciate that.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Good morning.
Two quick ones just at the end.
First do you have a metric for how much outages have been a drag to cash flow or EBITDA over the last three years? And secondly in the past there has been a tension between the Air Products long-term growth and [Indiscernible] focus and the stock market's relatively short horizon sometimes.
And as you are looking at the realignment of the business are you willing to invest in things near term because you see the cash flows three four five years out or are you committing to sort of a floor so to speak in terms of choppiness around cash flow in the near term as well? Well I like to Simon to make a comment on that.
But before that let me just say we are running Air Products for the long term and this is not something that we are going to do to make ourselves look good in one year and then damage the company in the second year.
I mean Air Products is going to be here for another 200 years and we are going to run the company properly for the long term so just wanted to make that comment.
But Id like Simon to make a comment on the other two issues that you raised and also Scott if you want to.
Simon? Laurence just a couple of quick numbers so as you know we said this year wed expect to manage cost we are at 2% headwind versus prior year.
Fundamentally on average our total maintenance cost for the company is about $250 million a year of expense audit fees to so its also a capital component as well.
So hopefully that frames it and we can follow up later on if youd like.
Okay thanks Laurence.
From Susquehanna Financial well take Don Carson.
Yes hi Seifi.
Two questions one on the capital structure side.
Traditionally industrial gas companies have been pretty conservative on wanting to maintain an investment-grade rating.
Are you willing to lever the Company up more to perhaps return cash to the shareholders a little quicker than you might get from an operational improvement in cash flow? And then secondly as you look at your North American position do you think you are disadvantaged by not having a cylinder gas position to take advantage of this long forecast manufacturing renaissance? First of all good morning Don.
Last time you asked me a question about industrial gases it was about 20 years ago but anyway good to talk to you again.
I am first of all we do value our investment grade rating and we would want to maintain that unless a phenomenal opportunity comes about but I dont foresee that right now.
So maintaining investment grade is important to us.
As far as the lack of the so called package gases business in the United States I dont consider it a significant disadvantage its something that is nice to have but is not a must have.
If we can create that at a reasonable cost and a reasonable price that would be something that we will look at.
But I do not consider that to be a significant competitive disadvantage we can compete the way we are.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have time for one more question.
Our final question will come from Mark Gulley with BGC.
Yes.
Return on capital was not mentioned either in your slide 4 or your later slide about the Ses.
Can you comment on the fact that Air Products has been below double-digit ROC and how you might see that metric going forward? Well I think that our ROC is going to kind of not improve very quickly in the short term because we have a lot of CapEx that is being spent that is not currently generating revenue.
So I would see that being going down but our goal is to increase the return on capital to what I think the industry is capable of delivering which is to up to 13% that is obviously will be our goal.
But I think in the short term I mean you know this Mark in short term we will while these projects are being built you obviously have depreciation without much profit against it.
And then if I dispose with an observation I welcome as well as others do the fact you are showing EBITDA for the company.
You may want to show EBITDA for each segment as well so we track back to.
We will we will show EBITDA for the segment for the business unit.
EBITDA will be what we will guide us in terms of not only measuring performance but also for our reward system that we will be very focused on that market.
And thank you for your remark I appreciate that.
Okay thank you very much everybody.
We do appreciate your participation in the call and we look forward to seeing many of you as we go on the road on next call.
Thanks again and have a great day.
Once again ladies and gentlemen that does conclude todays conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Air Products and Chemicals Fourth Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also this telephone teleconference presentation and comments made on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
Air Products will be recording this teleconference and may publish all or a portion of the teleconference.
No other recording or redistribution of this telephone teleconference by any other party are permitted without the express written permission of Air Products.
Your participation indicates your agreement.
Beginning today's call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Moore you may begin.
Thank you Anthony.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Air Products' Fourth Quarter 2014 Results Teleconference.
This is Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
I'm pleased to be joined today by Seifi Ghasemi our Chairman President and CEO; Scott Crocco our CFO; and our senior business leaders.
After our comments we'll be pleased to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We issued our earnings release this morning.
It's available on our website along with the slides for this teleconference.
Please go to airproducts.com to access the materials.
As a reminder we will be discussing our Q4 and FY '14 results under our previous segment structure.
When we report our Q1 FY '15 earnings in January we will be reporting under our new segment structure.
Please turn to Slide 2.
As always today's teleconference will contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions.
Please review the information on this slide and at the end of today's earnings release explaining factors that may affect these expectations.
Now I'm pleased to turn the call over to Seifi.
Thank you Simon and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for taking time from your busy schedule to be on our call.
We do appreciate your interest in our company.
In addition to Simon and Scott I have both of Air Products' Executive Vice Presidents Mr.
Corning Painter and Mr.
Guillermo Novo here with me to participate in the call and answer your questions.
As most of you know I have been Chairman President and CEO of Air Products now for 120 days.
During this period I have taken the time to meet more than 4 000 of our people in small groups of 50 to 60.
As a result of my discussions and observations during these meetings I am now more than ever convinced that Air Products has a great future ahead of it.
Our people are talented committed dedicated and enthusiastic to restructure and rebuild Air Products to be the great company it was 20 years ago.
The people of Air Products in the last 120 days have demonstrated what they are capable of delivering.
Our safety and financial performance in the last quarter demonstrates the power of the 20 000 people in Air Products coming together and delivering results that exceed expectations.
Now please turn to Slide #4.
Last month we presented our strategy for moving forward.
We announced that our goal is to be the safest and most profitable industrial gas company in the world.
Our people have embraced the challenge and all of us will work 24 hours a day 7 days a week to get there as soon as we can.
In all of our internal meetings we start with a discussion about safety and I would like to do the same with our investor presentations.
So please turn to Slide #5.
In the fourth quarter of 2014 we delivered significant improvement in all metrics related to safety.
I'm very pleased with this progress and all of our people will focus on continuing to deliver improvements as we move forward toward our goal.
Our goal is 0 accidents and 0 incidents.
Now please turn to Slide #6.
Last month we presented a detailed road map and the management principles that will guide us to achieving our goals.
I would like to highlight the key elements of the management principles.
We believe that cash is king.
Cash flow drives long-term value.
What counts in the long term is the increase in per share value of our stock not our size or growth rate.
I also believe that capital allocation is the most important job of the Air Products CEO right now and we are very focused on that.
In addition we believe that a decentralized organization releases entrepreneurial energy and minimizes costs and politics.
Now please turn to Slide #7.
Here are the 5 action points that will drive our performance improvement.
The details of these were delineated in our September 18 presentation which is on our website but I would like to quickly repeat them right now.
Number one we are focused and will continue to be focused on our core Industrial Gases business.
Number two we have restructured the organization.
This is a significant move to our profit centers and a regional focus and we will report our results accordingly.
Number three we are changing the company culture.
We are focused on safety simplicity in our business processes speed of execution and collective self-confidence that we can be #1 again.
Number four we are going to be focused on controlling capital and controlling our costs and last quarter's results demonstrates our ability to do that.
And number five we have realigned our incentive system in such a way that they are totally aligned with the creation of value for our shareholders.
Now please turn to Slide #8.
These are the highlights of our financial performance in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Scott later on will go through this in more details.
But I just wanted to draw your attention to the fact that although sales versus last year were up only 3% and sequentially up only 2% which is in line with worldwide economic growth our EBITDA grew by 10% and our operating income was up 12%.
This is clearly a demonstration that we are controlling our costs and I'm very grateful to the organization for responding to the challenge to achieve this.
You will also note that our margins have significantly improved.
We improved our EBITDA margin by 170 basis points and our operating margin by 130 basis points.
Now please turn to Slide #9.
You have heard us talk about the focus on cash and we have said that we do not want to be in a position to be borrowing money to pay dividends.
In fiscal year 2014 we had neutral cash flow a significant improvement over fiscal year '13.
As you will -- as you see we generated $2.8 billion of EBITDA.
And by the time you deduct cash taxes cash interest dividend and capital expenditure we end up breakeven.
The reason we were able to do this in fiscal 2014 was the significant effort in the last quarter to increase our EBITDA by controlling our costs.
Now I would like to turn this over to Mr.
Scott Crocco our Chief Financial Officer to go through the details of the numbers.
Thank you.
Thank you Seifi.
Now please turn to Slide 10 for a review of our 2014 results.
After a challenging second quarter we delivered improved results in the second half of fiscal 2014 and ended the year with a very strong fourth quarter.
For the year sales of $10.4 billion increased 3% on stronger volumes in the Electronics and Performance Materials where volumes were up 9% and Merchant Gases where volumes grew 3%.
We continued to focus more sharply on cash flow and specifically EBITDA or earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization.
We have updated our definition of EBITDA to include income from equity affiliate joint ventures and have provided a reconciliation in the appendix to the slides.
EBITDA and operating income improved by 5% and 6% respectively on higher volumes.
We delivered operating leverage for the first time in several years as EBITDA improved by 5% and operating income improved by 6% on the 3% sales growth.
EBITDA margin improved to 26.5% while our operating margin improved to almost 16% both up about 50 basis points versus FY '13.
Earnings per share grew by 5%.
Our return on capital employed declined by 30 basis points to 9.8% for the year primarily as a result of our capital spending and higher construction in progress but remains well above our cost of capital.
ROCE bottomed out earlier in 2014 and has begun to show improvement with Q4 coming in at 11%.
I want to remind you that the new projects we are developing executing and operating will be accretive to ROCE over the next few years.
During the year we also remained focused on delivering shareholder value.
2014 was the 32nd consecutive year of increasing the dividend which we raised 8%.
Before I comment on our Q4 performance I'd like to spend a moment reviewing the non-GAAP items on Slide 11.
We conducted our impairment testing and concluded that the goodwill and intangible assets associated with our Latin American reporting unit were impaired as a result of the outlook for Indura the Chilean-headquartered industrial gases company in which we own a controlling interest.
We recorded a noncash impairment charge of $310 million $275 million attributable to Air Products or $1.27 per share.
This is primarily driven by a weaker outlook for the Chilean economy and the balance from the impact of tax reform legislation in Chile that was passed in September.
Next are 2 tax items that totaled a positive $31 million or $0.14 per share.
A positive $52 million due to a tax election related to a non-U.S.
subsidiary was partially offset by a $21 million expense associated with the Chilean tax reform.
Also included are restructuring charges and pension settlement costs totaling $18 million or $0.06 per share as a result of our decision to realign the organization.
We also expect to see restructuring costs and pension settlement costs in FY '15 as we continue to simplify the organization and reduce costs.
Excluding these items our Q4 continuing operations EPS of $1.66 increased $0.19 or 13% versus last year.
Please turn to Slide 12.
Seifi provided the highlights of our Q4 results and I would like to provide some additional details.
For the quarter sales of $2.7 billion were 3% above prior year on stronger volumes in our Electronics and Performance Materials and Merchant segments and pricing was up 1%.
Underlying sales were up 4% excluding the impact from our exit of our Polyurethane Intermediates or PUI business.
Sequentially overall sales increased 2% with underlying sales up 3%.
EBITDA of $767 million was up 10% and EBITDA margin of 28.6% was up 170 basis points versus prior year driven by higher volumes and better cost.
A number of you have asked how you can track our progress towards our goals.
We will continue to share EBITDA margin in future earnings calls.
And while we wouldn't expect improvement to occur in a straight line every quarter you should hold us accountable for improvement in this important metric.
Operating income of $472 million increased 12% versus prior year as we delivered operating leverage on better costs higher volumes particularly in Electronics and Performance Materials and stronger pricing in Merchant Gases.
Our operating margin of 17.6% improved 130 basis points versus prior year on a positive contribution from higher volumes and better cost performance.
This was the best operating margin performance in at least 9 years.
Net income and diluted earnings per share were 14% and 13% higher respectively versus last year.
And as I mentioned our instantaneous ROCE improved to 11% up 60 basis points versus prior year.
Turning to Slide 13.
You can see an overview of the factors that affected this quarter's performance in terms of earnings per share.
Our continuing operations EPS of $1.66 increased by $0.19 versus last year.
Higher volumes increased EPS by $0.16.
Pricing energy and raw materials taken together contributed $0.02.
Net cost performance was $0.04 favorable as we are seeing the benefits of our cost-reduction actions.
The impact of the PUI business exit was $0.03.
We did not see any net currency impact this quarter.
Equity affiliate income was $0.01 lower.
Interest expense was lower and contributed $0.02 on lower interest rates.
Our tax rate of 24% remained unchanged versus prior year.
Noncontrolling interest added $0.01.
And finally higher shares outstanding reduced earnings per share by $0.02.
Now to begin a review of our business segment results I'll turn the call over to Corning.
Thanks Scott.
Please turn to Slide 14.
The Merchant Gases segment continued to show strong momentum in Q4.
Our focus on pricing and cost enabled us to deliver operating leverage as Seifi mentioned.
In fact this was the best operating margin performance for the Merchant segment in over 2 years.
We are also focused on safety and serving customers while we implement the changes that will drive further improvement in our business.
Merchant Gases sales of almost $1.1 billion were up 3% last year on 2% higher volumes and 2% higher pricing.
Volume growth was broad across the U.S.
and Canada Europe and Asia while pricing was positive in the U.S.
and Canada Europe and Latin America.
This was our best overall pricing quarter in almost 2 years.
Sequentially sales were up 1% on higher volumes which were up in all regions except Latin America.
For several years helium volumes have been trending down while pricing has trended up.
With new supplies coming into the market the supply and demand dynamics are changing.
While the shortage has eased the cost structure is evolving with typically more expensive new sources coming online and a change in the U.S.
government pricing program.
Going forward we are focused on managing price cost and sales volumes as we expect sourcing to be less of a challenge.
Merchant Gases' operating income of $186 million was up 5% from prior year and up 7% sequentially.
The segment operating margin of 17.1% was up 40 basis points compared to last year and up 100 basis points sequentially.
Operating leverage from the volume growth combined with a strong cost focus and pricing results delivered the numbers.
Now let's take a look at the Merchant business by region on Slide 15.
In the U.S.
and Canada sales were up 6% on 1% higher volumes and 5% higher pricing.
We saw mid-single-digit growth in our liquid oxygen nitrogen and argon volumes with strength in metals chemicals and oilfield services markets.
Capacity utilization improved within the upper 70s range.
We saw lower services and applications equipment sales and helium volumes were down on supply limitations.
Again we expect helium supply to be less of an issue going forward.
Contract signings for the year were ahead of last year's strong results.
Helium LOX/LIN and LAR pricing was positive in part due to the recovery of Q2 weather impacts.
As you have seen we have announced a broad-based price increase in mid-September.
In Europe sales were up 6% from last year on 3% positive volumes and 1% higher price.
This was our best European volume performance in at least 3 years as we continue to see growth in LOX/LIN and LAR volumes while cylinder volumes remained soft.
Liquid bulk volume growth was solid across Continental Europe.
Contract signings for the quarter were up significantly from last year.
Overall pricing was up for the second quarter in a row on helium and cylinder price improvement while LOX/LIN pricing was flat.
LOX/LIN plant loadings remain in the high 70s.
In Asia sales were up 1% from last year as 2% higher volumes were partially offset by 1% lower price.
LOX/LIN and LAR volumes were up mid-single digits across the region and up mid-teens in China.
Lower helium volumes and lower equipment sales partially offset the liquid volume strength.
Over the last -- over the 2 years now Air Products has not initiated -- for over excuse me 2 years now Air Products has not initiated a new investment for liquid capacity in China.
So with the continued volume growth loadings have improved within the high 70s range.
As we've discussed in previous quarters pricing continues to be pressured particularly in China given the industry overcapacity which we expect to persist for a few years.
Contract signings for the quarter and for the year were well above last year.
In Latin America underlying sales were up 2% while currency reduced reported sales by 10%.
Brazilian volumes were up offset by lower economic growth in Chile.
As Scott has discussed we impaired our Latin American business due to our current outlook of lower future profit growth in the business.
While the business growth rate and current performance are below our original expectations Indura remains a profitable business for us.
We are focused on cost management to improve the results despite the slower economy.
Now I'll turn the call over to Simon to review our tonnage and Equipment and Energy segments.
Thanks Corning.
Please turn to Slide 16.
Excluding PUI Tonnage Gases operating income was up 10% this quarter and up 17% sequentially primarily due to lower costs.
We continue to see strong base business demand including for hydrogen on the U.S.
Gulf Coast.
Overall sales of $806 million were down 4% versus last year.
Gases volumes were down 1% on lower Europe sales due to plant outages.
While we did see some impact on the U.S.
Gulf Coast from interruptions in feedstock supply from a supplier and a few customers having plant operating challenges we continue to see strong demand and little to no impact from the lighter sweeter shale oil.
As we have said while shale oil availability may moderate hydrogen demand growth going forward the U.S.
Gulf Coast customers are also adding heavy Canadian oil sands to their crude slate which brings significant hydrogen demand.
And low-cost natural gas creates an operating cost advantage for the refiners allowing them to profitably export refined products.
Overall we may see some growth moderation but don't see risk to our existing assets.
Operating income was up 17% sequentially primarily on lower maintenance costs.
Lower PUI volumes impacted sales this quarter by 4% or about $35 million and about $0.03 of profit.
As a reminder we fully exited this business in Q1 of FY '14.
And for the full year saw PUI sales down about $140 million and about an $0.08 EPS headwind.
In addition to driving improvement in our base business we continue to focus on executing our strong backlog of projects safely on time and on budget.
As we said during this quarter we are seeing delays in onstream timing from some of our large China customers.
In some cases our customers have minor contract flexibility in start dates but they do not have unlimited ability to delay payments to Air Products.
Our customers have not stopped or halted work but rather are seeing their large and complicated projects take longer to get up and running.
We do not see this as a fundamental long-term risk to the returns but it may impact near-term earnings over the next few quarters.
Now please turn to Slide 17.
The Equipment and Energy segment continues to see strong growth as our leading global LNG position drove the profit improvement.
Sales of $125 million were up 6% versus prior year and up 20% sequentially.
Operating income of $27 million was up 34% versus prior year and up 57% sequentially.
More higher-margin LNG projects and a strong cost focus drove the profit increase.
The backlog of $520 million is up significantly as we announced an award for Freeport LNG's export terminal on the U.S.
Gulf Coast and an award for a midsized Technip LNG project in Inner Mongolia China.
We've also received other customer awards that have not yet been announced.
Overall LNG project development activity remains high.
Now I'll turn the call over to Guillermo for a review of our Electronics and Performance Materials segment results.
Thanks Simon.
Please turn to Slide 18.
The Electronics and Performance Materials segment again delivered very strong results as both businesses showed double-digit volume growth while the focus on cost and productivity delivered leverage to the bottom line.
Margins have been increasing over the last few quarters and this was the best quarterly operating margin in more than 8 years.
Segment sales of $660 million were up 14% versus last year driven by 13% higher volumes.
Versus prior year electronic sales were up 16%.
Advanced materials showed strong growth as our customers continued to ramp production of their next-generation nodes driving increased demand for our materials.
Process materials also showed strong growth by leveraging its improved cost position as end-market demand and industry capacity rationalization improved volume and pricing.
Delivery Systems was up significantly as we provided equipment and installation services to a number of key fab customers and new node ramps.
We would expect particularly the installation portion which is roughly 30% to 40% of our Delivery System sales to slow as we move through fiscal year '15.
Tonnage also showed growth as we brought onstream new projects.
Sequentially sales were up 14%.
Performance Materials sales were up 11% versus last year as we saw strong growth across every region and every product line.
End-market demand remains strong and we are additionally benefiting from share gains and strong successful new product introduction.
Sequentially sales were down 1% better than the typical seasonal decline.
Operating income of $128 million was up 33% and operating margin was up 280 basis points to 19.3% as leverage from higher volumes was expanded with strong cost performance.
We remain on track and are delivering on our business restructuring and cost reduction programs.
Sequential operating income was up 19% and margins improved 200 basis points even compared to a strong Q3.
As I mentioned the team delivered significant profit improvement and the best operating margins in over 8 years.
Innovation-driven growth pricing manufacturing productivity cost improvements and share gains all contributed to the strong performance and allowed us to gain leverage from the improving market conditions.
As a reminder our Q1 results will be for the Materials Technologies segment which will not include our electronics on-site business.
We're excited about the new and more focused Materials Technologies segment and the team is looking forward to driving further improvements.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Seifi.
Thank you very much Guillermo.
Now please turn to Slide #19.
At this point based on what we know today our guidance for fiscal year 2015 is for earnings per share of $6.30 to $6.55.
At the midpoint this represents an increase of 11% over our fiscal year 2014 results.
We are focused on actions that we can control to deliver these results next year.
Our new organization enables us to reduce overhead cost which will continue to improve cash flow and earnings in 2015.
Our new organization will allow us to be more effective and improve the performance of our existing assets and businesses.
And we will have a laser focus on cost reduction especially pricing improvement and asset utilization.
Our guidance for the first quarter of fiscal year 2015 is for earnings per share of $1.45 to $1.50.
At midpoint this would represent a growth of about 10% versus quarter 1 fiscal year '14.
Please note that the sequential drop from quarter 4 of this year is driven by lower seasonal volumes across our businesses and an increase in maintenance costs for our on-site plants.
As for capital expenditure for fiscal year 2015 we estimate that to be around $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion as we focus on our core business and as you know we have raised our required project returns.
You can see a split of the capital by the new reporting segments in appendix Slide #22.
I also want to remind you that we will be reporting our first quarter of 2015 results in January under our new segmentation.
To help understand the new segments we expect to provide historical results of the new segments in December of 2000 -- of calendar 2014.
Now please turn to Slide #20.
I shared this slide with you in September.
This is the plan we are following to drive us toward our goal to be the safest and most profitable industrial gas company in the world providing excellent service to our customers.
This will enable us to accomplish our overall mission which is to create value for our shareholders.
Our new organization is in place.
The right people have the right authority and the right accountability for results and we have the right rewards system in place.
We are focused on our core business and we are implementing a culture which is focused on safety simplicity speed and self-confidence.
We have already -- you have already begun to see the results of our hard work in our fourth quarter results as we just announced and we expect that good performance to continue into next year.
I continue to be very optimistic about the future of Air Products and the ability of our committed and dedicated people to deliver excellent results as we move forward.
Now with that we are delighted to answer your questions.
Anthony? It appears we have our first question from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Seifi since you've taken over pricing seems to be at the front and center.
There have been several price increases announced.
I think U.S.
merchant price was up 5% in the quarter.
So can you talk about your pricing strategy? And how do you manage pricing versus volume trade-off? That's an excellent question P.J.
When I looked at Air Products' costs during the past 15 20 years quite honestly and the prices that we are getting for the outstanding products that we produce prices have not kept up with the increase in our costs.
I mean we obviously have to pay our people more.
The cost of raw materials go up.
We have not recovered our cost increases.
And therefore I think it is imperative for us to push the pricing so that we can at least recover the cost.
We are not asking people -- we are very focused on improving productivity and all of that to keep our costs under control.
But historically Air Products has not recovered its cost increases as a result of price.
Therefore we are very much focused on that.
Research Division</strong> And a question for Corning.
You were around when Indura was acquired.
And today you guys wrote down almost 1/3 of the Indura purchase price.
So can you do a little postmortem for us on Indura and what went wrong relative to your expectations? P.J.
I'd like to answer that because Corning was not around when that acquisition was made.
He was not responsible for that business at all.
He had nothing to do with it.
The reason that we are where we are is that when you look at Indura's performance Indura's performance hasn't really changed that much during the years.
What had happened is that at the time of the acquisition the expectations that was put out to justify the purchase price and the goodwill those assumptions were wrong.
There were assumptions for significant growth in Latin America that has not materialized.
There was assumptions for synergies that have not materialized.
That is the reason that we have to take the write-off.
The write-off is not something that we came in and said "Oh we have to take a write-off." As you know in accordance with good accounting practices every quarter we look at all of our assets and see if they are impaired.
And when we looked at all of our assets the good news is that nothing else was impaired.
But then you look at Indura it was impaired.
We had paid too much for the business and we have to take about half of their goodwill out.
So that -- I hope that clarifies the situation P.J.
Your next question comes from Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a couple of questions on the tonnage business.
I think the tonnage volumes for Air Products this year exclusive of PUI were down.
And I was wondering if you could diagnose why they were down.
And I was hoping you could also provide some detail about the delay in China projects which projects they are and what's the magnitude of the delay? Very good.
Jeff I'll try to answer this thing in a general way and then I'll turn it over to Scott -- to Simon to give you more details.
First of all if I may answer your second question first the delay in the China project is actually right now 2 of the projects.
I don't want to name them but it is basically 2 of the projects are about -- delayed about 2 quarters from what we expected.
And the projects are -- it is not as if the projects are not viable.
It is just that when you are building a $10 billion facility which we are part of it there is delays in the start-up and all of that.
We do not expect this to be a major issue for us.
We do not expect to be taking any write-offs and we have taken these delays fully into consideration when we gave you our guidance.
So it's not as if next quarter we are going to say "Well we have to adjust our guidance because the projects are delayed." We know where they are and we have taken that into consideration.
In the long term we don't see any problems there.
With respect to their volumes for our existing businesses their shortfall in volume is mainly in Europe and I'll have Simon comment on that.
Great.
Thank you Seifi.
And Jeff I think maybe if I could just frame that I believe you asked about the full year.
And I think as you reflect on the full year volumes in tonnage first of all it's contributed by the fact that we didn't have the new plants come onstream.
But also as you remember particularly back in Q2 and Q3 we had a lot of outages that were planned.
Our customers planning our outages we take the plants down and so that limited our volume opportunities.
So as we bring the new plants on next year we would expect that to improve.
Our next question comes from John McNulty with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So with regard to the Electronics and Performance Materials segment the margins have taken a solid jump up.
And I guess I'm wondering if you can parse out what's -- what the major drivers behind that are? How much might be tied to cost cutting versus just the incremental volumes you've seen with the electronics recovery? Sure John.
I'm going to have Guillermo answer that.
But in general I would like to say that the margins have jumped up because if you recall when we're discussing this last quarter I said that that business has a lot of room for improvement.
What we have done is that we have an outstanding team running the place.
What we have done is that we have given them authority.
We have given them the room to run and they are doing a great job in running the business.
And I think they have a great future ahead of them.
I'm very pleased with the management team and the restructuring that Guillermo has done but -- Guillermo? I think there are several dimensions that are driving the improvement.
First if you remember last year we said we were going to drive a significant improvement program in our Performance Materials business which was one of the underperforming segments.
And we have been delivering exactly on that reducing our costs improving plant productivity shifting a lot of our production capabilities to Asia where we are in a more competitive position.
So all those activities that we had planned have been delivered and that has been a big driver to our overall improvement so that cost productivity is a big driver.
In doing that as the market has improved and capacity utilizations have improved we've also been able to take advantage of our competitive position to gain share and improve our pricing position in that area.
So that's for the process material side.
In the advanced materials although we started a little bit slower in the first part of the year because of just delays from the industry and the [indiscernible].
Towards back end of the year we are starting to see that movement and that's -- a lot of our advanced materials are newer products that come at a higher margin and improve our mix.
And lastly I would say it's in the Delivery Systems.
We've also taken productivity initiatives to improve our overall competitiveness in that segment.
And we've been able to pick up some additional business during the year which also helped our loading.
So as I said in my comments there's a lot -- a lot of things have happened not one single thing that drove our overall improvement.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just a -- with a follow-up question.
On SG&amp;A we saw a pretty solid drop down both sequentially and year-over-year.
I guess I'm wondering if there's any kind of onetime-ish type items.
Or is this just the beginning of the costs cuts to come? I'd like to have Scott comment on that.
Sure.
So we're focused as you heard from us in the past and Seifi this morning on costs and you saw that in the SG&amp;A line.
Going forward where are we going to be next year? We have to continue to drive it down both on an absolute basis as well as on a percentage-of-sales basis.
So I'm not giving guidance in the future for SG&amp;A but that's going to be a particular area of focus.
We delivered results in the fourth quarter and we expect to continue to do so going forward.
Our next question comes from Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Neal Sangani on for Bob.
During the quarter can you tell us specifically what you did around cost reduction in the fourth quarter? And what's incrementally ahead? Well what we did in the cost reduction is obviously we reduced our staff and the number two is that we controlled travel costs.
We controlled all the consulting costs.
We controlled all of the -- as you know it's not one item that you do it's 10 000 things that you have to do.
But I challenged the organization in July when we started and they have responded.
Everybody watches everything that we do.
We don't make unnecessary trips.
We don't have fancy conferences in fancy resorts.
And obviously there has been people reduction in terms -- in our different businesses.
I'd like to have Scott make some additional comments.
Sure.
Thank you Seifi.
So just to build -- just to remind folks we took a provision last year and we concluded the savings associated with that provision here in the fourth quarter $45 million or so for this year with an annual rate of about 75.
So we'll see that going into next year.
That's been brought to closure.
And then also we've taken actions in this quarter under the new organization.
And you saw we've had a provision of about $13 million in this quarter reflective of additional actions that we're going to take that we have taken and that we're going to continue to take going forward.
So just wanted to frame and remind folks that there was the conclusion of the previous efforts and now the beginning of the efforts going forward under the new organization.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up on electronics.
You stated when you came onboard that noncore businesses like Electronics and Performance Materials would need to be improved or divested.
How does that fit with the bounce back in volumes and margins you saw this quarter? And can you also tell us what the revenue base in margins would look like once you remove some of the on-site products? Well we challenged -- we have told them that they get their margins up to where the gases margin are.
That means an operating margin of around 24% 25% operating margin that we would love to keep the business.
I mean it's a great business great people and they are making significant improvements toward that goal.
So -- and at the rate that they are going I think that they will be able to achieve that.
Guillermo do you want to make any additional comments? No I think I said we're very very happy with the overall performance.
I think one of the questions was around the tonnage part of the business.
You'll see those numbers as we roll them out but it is part of the investor presentation we've made in the past.
We break it out.
I think roughly you can calculate around $350 million would be the Tonnage Gases portion of the business.
Our next question comes from Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Wondering if you could just help us a little bit with the composition of 2015.
How much earnings or EPS do you expect from sort of new plant loadings? And then can you talk to us a little bit about how much EBITDA should grow and where EBITDA margins should go for the full year just so that we could help benchmark your progress relative to what you're asking your employees to do? Well thanks for the question.
But we have decided not to really get into the details of how many cents from new plants and how many cents from this and that.
We consider that to be a little bit of a getting into too much detail.
And in addition to that if something is delayed in terms of new plants we do something else to make up for that.
So we are not going to really go through that kind of a detail.
But in general I would say that we expect that our EBITDA margins to continue to improve.
We are -- as you know our goal is to get to an EBITDA margin of 32% 33%.
This quarter we were at around 28%.
Next year we will probably be around that and then hopefully improve every quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up on the 11% instantaneous ROCE can you just help us understand how the Indura write-off was accounted for in that? Okay.
Scott will answer that.
Scott? Yes.
So in that instantaneous this quarter very little impact that you see in there.
I think going forward and if I just pull it back broadly speaking post the write-down of the LASA reporting unit call it 20 basis points improvement from the change in the denominator.
So that's about the ballpark.
Research Division</strong> So you took Indura out of the denominator and helped by 20 basis points.
Is that the answer? As part of a write-down then the denominator gets lower.
And it's about a 20 basis point impact for ROCE going forward roughly.
Not that significant.
Right.
Our next question comes from David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just on the restructuring Seifi should we expect a large charge going forward? Or similar to this past quarter smaller charges over the next few quarters? We are not going to take a onetime one large charge.
But I should think that you should expect that during the year as -- we are going to take the charges as incurred as we do the restructuring.
Whatever they charges us we'll report you.
But I expect that if you add up all of those numbers for fiscal year 2015 that would come out to a substantial number if you are going to achieve and do what we have suggested that we are going to do.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
And just on the 2 large China projects that are being delayed.
What's the EPS impact in 2015 versus prior expectations? Well David if you don't mind as I said we have taken that into consideration when we gave you the forecast.
But I don't want to quote a specific number if you don't mind.
Our next question comes from Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Question.
Now that you've kind of reset the capital bar and obviously getting tighter with capital Seifi how do you think about over a longer period of time what the natural growth rate is for your business? Actual growth rate? Well it obviously depends on the worldwide economy.
But we believe that Air Products has the capacity and we should grow at least at 1.5x GDP worldwide.
That would be a natural growth rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then expectations among the investment community is for call it roughly $600 million of kind of cost outs from this time you started.
Can you walk us through how you think the cadence of that will flow through what you can get? Or maybe what you've got already? What you can get within the next 1 year and then maybe what takes 2 to 3 years to get? Well we expect that out of those $600 million if we are going to achieve our goal I think we have said Duffy that about half of that will be from SG&amp;A and overhead costs.
And the other half will come from fundamentally the runoff facilities and efficiency and distribution power consumption and all of the other things that we do.
So that's the overall breakdown.
In terms of breaking it down by years we'll see how fast we can run.
In our forecast that we have given you for next year obviously we are assuming that we will have some of that cost saving under our belt.
But I don't want to give you a very specific number but that's the order of magnitude of the numbers Duffy.
Our next question comes from James Sheehan with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Scott just wondering if you could give us some color on how you see return on capital trends unfolding over the next year.
Right.
So from an instantaneous perspective we'd expect it to come down a little bit given the first quarter and the traditional seasonality that we see in the business.
But in general -- generally speaking improvement going forward as we load the assets that we have and bring the projects that are in backlog and importantly drive the earnings improvement from the productivity efforts that we have.
So we'd expect that to improve going forward as well as all the other metrics that we've talked about cash flow and so forth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And one for Seifi on the cost controls that you've delivered so far are pretty strong.
I'm just wondering if you could characterize the cost cuts you've done so far.
Would you see that as low-hanging fruits that the pace of cost control slows going forward? Or how do you see that unfolding? Well Jim my friend nothing is low-hanging fruit.
It doesn't come out easily.
But I have to give a lot of credit to the organization for responding to the challenge and we are controlling every aspect of our cost.
And as I said it's not 1 or 2 items.
It's not one magic wand.
It's 10 000 different things that people do every day in running our business.
So -- and none of that is easy but -- and it is painful.
But the organization has decided that we want to go back to where we were 20 years ago be the best performing industrial gas company in the world and they are moving toward that.
Our next question comes from Don Carson with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Seifi I want to go back to your guidance for fiscal '15.
It's above consensus despite obviously some big headwinds out there in terms of economic growth currency and pension.
So 2 questions.
One what is the pension and currency headwind you've built into your numbers? And how would you characterize your growth in terms of how much is cost driven versus how much is really volume driven? That's an excellent question Don.
First of all in terms of volumes you know the economic situation in the world better than I do.
We are not counting on getting any significant help from economic growth.
So we are not counting that our top line will grow a lot maybe 2% or maybe even less.
What we are counting on is on our ability to focus on the things that we control which is basically our cost and productivity.
And obviously we are also counting on pricing to make sure that we get the right prices for our products.
That's the direction that we are going.
In terms of currency now I'd just like to give you a general number.
I know everybody is concerned about the euro and all of that.
Our exposure in Europe -- no maybe we should give you some numbers to frame this thing in a better way that our total exposure to Europe is about 26% of our Air Products sales.
But 30% of that European exposure is primarily our pipeline network in Rotterdam.
So really only 18% of Air Products sales are exposed to the economy within Europe.
But that includes a little bit of our Performance Materials business.
But the significant majority of the 18% is our Merchant business.
And of that 25% of that is in U.K.
and Ireland.
So we don't really have too much exposure to the U.S.
currency today general economic conditions in Europe.
In terms of currency the biggest swing can come from the -- from euro.
And on that one order of magnitude 10% change in the value of euro a 10% change will affect our EPS by about $0.07 or $0.08.
So that's the kind of thing that we have done.
With respect to pension and so on I'd like Scott to comment on that.
Right.
I would expect while it's not final Don call it roughly even FY '15 versus '14 not a big movement in pension expense.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then one follow-up Seifi I know you're very focused on improving the density of your assets to improve returns.
Have you thought of any closures in the U.S.? I mean your operating ratio is still only in the high 70s.
Are there areas in the U.S.
where you don't have the density you need? And could you help yourself out by shuttering some plants? I don't think we need to shut down some plants.
So the density thing can only be improved significantly if we do any kind of swaps with other people.
On that one there are plenty of ideas around but the issue is fundamentally what would the authorities approve? I mean with these things it's always easy to talk about it.
But in the real world there are restrictions from an antitrust point of view about market concentration about what we can and what we cannot do.
We are not counting on that as a significant factor for improving our results.
We are open to suggestions.
We are open to discussions.
But quite honestly we haven't built anything like that into our forecast.
Our next question comes from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> If we look at the last 3 years and consider the seasonal pattern from the September quarter into the December quarter your earnings have declined typically $0.12 to $0.14.
Based on the guidance you put forth this morning if I use the midpoint it sounds like you're looking for a decline of $0.23 to $0.24.
I heard you referenced some higher maintenance costs and I suppose foreign exchange is not helping sequentially.
Are there other factors at work that would be perhaps weighing on the December quarter? Look Kevin the main reason that you come up with $0.24 is because we had an excellent fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Yes I agree.
You know what I mean? If we had delivered $1.55 and then we said for next quarter we do $1.50 then you would say it's only $0.05.
So there's a little bit of an element of that but we take very seriously when we talk about giving you guidance.
And therefore we didn't want to get ahead of our headlights for the first quarter.
Can we do better? We'll -- obviously we'll try to do that.
But we just want to be cautious that we kind of deliver what we promise and then so that we don't surprise people.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I understand.
That makes sense.
The second question if I may Seifi on the strategic side.
If you think about various possibilities such as potential to buy out some joint ventures and I think you alluded to asset swaps or -- did you see any greater potential today less potential or about the same relative to your first day? Well I see potential but whether they are actionable quite honestly is a challenge.
I'm not expecting any kind of a significant happening there no.
Our next question comes from David Manthey with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Along the same lines here in terms of the fourth quarter strength and into the first quarter and I think it was asked before I'm not sure if it got answered.
In terms of -- anything unusual in the fourth quarter in terms of year-end accrual true-ups? Or anything unusual we should think about that could put that 17.6 in appropriate context? David our fourth quarter results are "very clean." There wasn't any kind of a special thing that we moved forward or anything like that.
That we feel we have the clean numbers.
And if that implies that we are being conservative about the first quarter maybe there is some element of truth in that.
But I would like to have Scott comment on this a little bit more in detail.
Just I think as mentioned earlier when you look at it versus a year-on-year I think that's the better reference right? So in any time any quarter whether it's sale of equipment and different ins and outs and so forth and seasonality there's going to be movement.
But I think the best way to look at it is how did we do last year? How does that compare to what our guidance is for the first quarter? And again focusing on the actions that we can control to continue to deliver cost reductions and productivity to the bottom line.
That does conclude our question-and-answer session for today's conference.
I would like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you very much.
And I would like to just at this time thank everybody who was on the call.
We very much appreciate your very good questions.
We look forward to getting a chance to talk to many of you over the next few months.
And I would like to remind everybody that we are planning our 2015 Investor Conference.
It will be held in New York and it will be late March or early April as soon as we have finalized the venue for that.
We will share more details as we go forward and we always look forward to seeing all of you.
And again thanks for the very good questions.
We appreciate them.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to Air Products and Chemicals First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also this teleconference presentation and the comments made on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
Air Products will be recording this teleconference and may publish all or a portion of the teleconference.
No other recording or redistribution of this telephone conference by any other party are permitted without the expressed or written permission of Air Products.
Your participation indicates your agreement.
Beginning todays call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Moore you may now begin.
Thank you Jennifer.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Air Products First Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Teleconference.
This is Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Im pleased to be joined today by Seifi Ghasemi our Chairman President and CEO; Scott Crocco our CFO; and our senior business leaders.
After our comments well be pleased to take your questions.
Please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
We issued our earnings release this morning.
Its available on our website along with the slides for this teleconference.
Please go to airproducts.com to access the materials.
As a reminder we are discussing our results today under our new segment reporting structure which was in place as of October 1 2014.
On January 5 we provided two years of historical results under this new segment structure that information is also available on our website.
Please turn to Slide 2.
As always todays teleconference will contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions.
Please review the information on this slide and at the end of todays earnings release explaining factors that may affect these expectations.
Now Im pleased to turn the call over to Seifi.
Thank you Simon.
And good morning to everyone.
Thanks for taking time from your very busy schedule to be on our call today.
We do appreciate your interest in our company.
Before we get into the details let me introduce our team who will be on the call today.
In addition to Simon I have Mr.
Scott Crocco our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mr.
Corning Painter Air Products Executive Vice President responsible for Industrial Gases.
And Mr.
Guillermo Novo Air Products Executive Vice President in charge of Material Technologies.
All of us will be participating in the call and in answering your questions.
I am pleased to report that thanks to the hard work and significant contributions of Air Products more than 20 000 employees we delivered a strong performance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2015.
As you will note we have materially improved our safety record and increased our earnings per share for the quarter by 16% versus last year.
We increased our EBITDA margin by 240 basis points and we are on our way to once again become the safest and most profitable industrial gas company in the world providing excellent service to our customers.
We do appreciate that we still have a long day to go to fulfill our stated goals but the fact is we have started on our journey to get there.
Air Products is moving forward with the full force and support of all of our people.
I am very proud of our entire team and their positive response to the most significant organizational and cultural change in our 75 year history.
I am optimistic and excited about our future.
Now please turn to Slide #3.
Our safety performance for the first quarter is encouraging.
We improved our lost-time injury rate by 42% and our recordable case rate by 52%.
This is a clear indication that our people are actively involved in improving the discipline of operations and distribution and they are fully engaged in implementing our culture of safety simplicity speed and self-confidence.
When it comes to safety performance we do need to do better and we can do better.
But the results indicate that we are moving in the right direction.
Once again I would like to thank all of our people for their focus and contribution.
Now please turn to Slide #4.
I want to remind everyone once again that our goal is and will continue to be a constant and persistent effort to become the safest and most profitable industrial gas company in the world providing excellent service to our customers.
Now please turn to Slide #5.
We have talked about our management principles before but I want to emphasize our total focus on creating value for our shareholders cash generation capital allocation and moving toward a decentralized organization.
Now please turn to Slide #6.
In September of 2014 we laid out a detailed strategic plan to move forward.
Let me give you a brief overview and update on where we are today on the five key points.
On point number one it is now very clear to everyone that our core business is Industrial Gases and we are totally focused on improving and growing that business.
On point number two I am very pleased to report that we have restructured the company and are operating under the new structure.
As I said this has been a significant amount of change in a short period of time designed to create a simple empowered and accountable organization.
We are now also reporting our results in accordance with the new structure and have also provided you with appropriate historical data.
On point number three we are we are making progress in implementing our company culture of total focus on safety simplicity speed of execution and collective self-confidence that we can be the best Industrial Gas company in the world.
This will be a continuous effort in the months and years to come but I can confidently report that our people are driving the change.
On point number four we have put in place a very robust and vigorous process to review and allocate capital.
We examine all projects over $3 million on a weekly basis with the full participation of our relevant executives.
On point number five we have made significant changes to our compensation plans.
The details are in our proxy statement.
The key driver is to reward our people based on performance of their relevant area of responsibility create differentiation in pay and encourage focus on EBITDA and cash generation.
Now please turn to Slide #7 our quarterly results.
The numbers are self-explanatory and Scott will go through the details but I want to make a few comments.
First that despite the significant organizational changes our team has stayed focused on controlling costs pushing productivity and have delivered a 240 basis point improvement in our EBITDA margin.
Second we did deliver a 16% improvement in earnings per share despite a $0.05 headwind due to currency.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Scott Crocco our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to go through the details and then I will come back after comments from Corning Guillermo and Simon to make some closing remarks and answer your questions.
Scott? Thank you Seifi.
Now please turn to Slide 8 for a more detailed review of our Q1 results.
After ending FY 2014 with solid performance in Q4 we again delivered improved results to begin FY 2015 on a strong note.
Sales of $2.6 billion increased 1% a strong underlying growth of 5% was partially offset by an unfavorable currency impact of 3% and a 1% impact from our decision to exit the PUI business.
Volumes increased 4% primarily from strength in three areas.
In North America Gases we delivered broadly higher volumes across most businesses.
This included strong hydrogen demand particularly from our US Gulf Coast customers.
In Gases Asia volume growth was driven primarily by new plant startups in China.
And in Materials Technologies we again saw solid growth across all businesses.
Pricing was 1% higher driven by broad-based price increases across Gases Americas.
We delivered operating leverage again this quarter as EBITDA improved by 10% and operating income improved by 15% on the 1% sales growth.
EBITDA margin improved to 28.2% while our operating margin improved to 17.4% both up more than 200 basis points versus prior year.
Sequentially our profits and margins were down slightly as we saw lower seasonal sales in North America Gases and Materials Technologies.
Overall costs were flat with operational improvements offset by higher incentive comp.
As a reminder in Q4 we had lower incentive compensation costs across all the segments as a result of our final 2014 year-end payout.
Versus prior year net income increased 17% and earnings per share grew by 16%.
Our fourth quarter trailing return on capital employed increased by 20 basis points to 10.1%.
This is the first year-over-year improvement in some time.
Our Q1 ROCE of 10.6% improved 140 basis points over last year.
You can see this in the appendix slide.
Both improvements are a result of better operating performance and costs focus.
Youve heard us talk quite a bit about our focus on cash.
And we have said that we dont want to be in a position to be borrowing money to pay dividends.
This is consistent with the way we are focusing and running the business.
Driven by a strong fourth quarter we were breakeven on this free cash flow metric in fiscal year 2014 a significant improvement over fiscal year 2013.
As you can see in our first quarter 2015 we generated higher EBITDA but this improvement was more than offset by increases in capital expenditures cash taxes and dividends.
It is not unusual for these items to move around quarter-to-quarter.
For the remainder of fiscal 2015 we expect to continue delivering higher EBITDA due to our cost reduction efforts and our capital expenditures should decline in the second half of the year as we bring on-stream more projects from our backlog.
We are certainly working towards being free cash flow positive for fiscal year 2015.
Turning to Slide 10 you can see an overview of the factors that drove this quarters performance in terms of earnings per share.
Before I comment on our Q1 operating performance Id like to spend a moment reviewing two non-GAAP items that total $0.05.
First our restructuring charges totaling $32 million or $0.10 per share as a result of our decision to realign the organization.
As I mentioned on last quarters call we expect to see restructuring costs and pension settlement costs in FY 2015 as we continue to simplify the organization and reduce costs.
Also we acquired our partners share of a small industrial gas production joint venture.
The transaction was accounted for as a business combination.
And as a result of revaluating our previously held equity interest to fair value the quarter includes a gain of $18 million pre-tax or $0.05 per share.
Excluding these items our Q1 continuing operations EPS of $0.55 increased $0.21 or 16% versus last year.
Higher volumes increased EPS by $0.18.
Pricing energy and raw materials taken together contributed $0.04.
Net cost performance was $0.08 favorable as we are seeing the benefits of our focus on costs more than offsetting fixed costs inflation.
The impact of the PUI business exit was $0.04.
Unfavorable currency translations were $0.05 as almost all currencies weakened against the dollar.
Equity affiliate income was $0.02 higher on better costs performance and higher volumes in Asia.
Interest expense was lower but offset by higher non-controlling interests.
Our tax rate of 24% remained unchanged versus prior year.
And finally higher shares outstanding reduced earnings per share by $0.02.
Now to begin the review of our business segment results Ill turn the call over to Corning.
Thanks Scott.
Before I review our regional results I want to make a few overall comments on industrial gases.
Weve restructured and simplified our business along three principles.
First combining all of our gases businesses; second consolidating key activities such as operations and distribution within the business; and third running the business regionally.
In doing so weve driven true P&amp;L ownership meaning decision making regarding customers plans distribution all of that is now with our local managers making us more agile responsive and cost competitive.
As you can imagine adopting a simpler and less matrixed organization with greater empowerment and accountability is popular.
It is something that many employees have been looking forward to.
I would like to thank our people for staying focused on safety our customers and delivering todays results during these exciting times at Air Products.
During the same timeframe since the beginning of our fiscal year the price of oil has dropped essentially in half obviously thats a huge change.
But it had no discernible impact on our industrial gas business in Q1.
Our hydrogen volumes remain strong as did our US Oil Field Services business.
Being agile and focused on cost is always important and even more or so in times like this.
Our restructuring advances both of those traits and it is well underway.
Finally a comment on helium as we mentioned last quarter new supply has come into the market improving the supply-demand balance while also impacting the industrys cost structure.
At this point any pent-up demand from years of shortage has been met.
Looking forward we are focused on managing price cost and volumes but we do not see helium as material upside in the near future.
With that please turn to Slide 11 for a review of our Gases Americas results.
We delivered strong results this quarter with broad volume growth in North America and strong pricing.
Latin America market was weak in comparison.
We kept a very tight focus on cost and have taken actions throughout the region which will begin to hit the bottom line in Q2.
Sales of just over $1 billion were up 6% versus last year.
Volumes were up 4% with liquid oxygen nitrogen and argon volumes up mid-teen digits in North America on strength across our customer base - Im sorry mid-single digits in North America.
Hydrogen volumes were up significantly over last year as we continue to see strong demand from refinery customers on the US Gulf Cost and we had fewer planned maintenance outages.
South American volumes were flat with last year.
Pricing was also strong up 3% versus prior year with good results across all of the liquid bulk products in North America and more inflation driven increases in Latin America.
Higher energy prices added 2% to sales while currency reduced sales by 3% primarily from the translational effect of the Chilean peso moving about 14% and the Canadian dollar down 8%.
Underlying sales were down 1% sequentially primarily due to seasonality in North America versus last year EBITDA grew 8% increasing EBITDA margin to 33.1% the highest in the last two years.
Operating income grew by 14% as we saw good leverage on the volume increases.
We did see lower maintenance costs but this was more than offset by a prior year equipment sale gain.
We saw a positive effect of continued focus on cost and we expect the benefits of the reorganization to start to ramp-up in Q2.
Sequentially profits were down on lower volumes and lower incentive compensation costs in Q4.
Now please turn to Slide 12 for the Europe Middle East and Africa region our results were essentially flat compared to last year before the impact of currency.
Its always important to manage costs particularly so in todays soft economic environment.
Our restructuring is well-timed.
The new organization structure is in place and a number of actions are underway we will deliver these savings to our bottom line over the course of the year.
Underlying sales were flat versus last year with lower energy pass through reduced sales by 2% and currency negatively impacted sales by 7% primarily the euro the British pound and the Polish zloty.
Liquid bulk volumes were positive while cylinder volumes were negative reflecting a general trend of larger customers showing greater strength than our smaller ones.
Underlying sales were flat sequentially.
Operating income of $81 million and EBITDA of $143 million were both down 5% versus last year but again would have been slightly positive without the currency impact.
Sequential profits were increased or were impacted by currency higher power costs and lower Q4 incentive compensation costs.
Please turn to Slide 13.
Asia Gases delivered a strong quarter having brought new plants on stream and controlling costs.
As we have said our large onsite customers may experience some delays in bringing their projects on stream.
But the core message here is we are executing our projects on budget.
Our customers are progressing their projects start-ups are happening plants are running and we are getting paid.
Underlying sales were up 5% versus last year as volumes were up 6% primarily on the new plants particularly the large PCEC project.
We continue to see price pressure in the China liquid market although we have somewhat mitigated that by improving our whole sale retail mix.
It has been more than two years since Air Products decided to add liquid capacity in China but we still see new capacity coming into the marketplace.
The sequential sales increase was also primarily driven by the new plants.
EBITDA of $155 million was up 12% to 38.8% margin.
And the operating income was up 9% to 22.7% margin.
Obviously the volume growth from the new plants brings additional costs but we are still seeing strong leverage.
The sequential profit increase was driven by the new plant start-ups partially offset by lower Q4 compensation.
Ill close with a few words on the Global Gases segment.
This segment consists of most of our air separation unit sale of equipment business and the associated service.
These businesses naturally generate sales and profits.
This segment also includes costs associated with industrial gas business which are not region specific.
So for example R&amp;D product development management costs costs which we can leverage globally are in this segment.
I am accountable for those costs and by not allocating them I can hold the regional managers accountable for what they directly control.
And thats an example of our new philosophy.
In terms of results for this quarter our sales were down versus last year on lower product - project activity.
And well see that sort of variation in this segment.
Excluding a favorable inventory revaluation last year our profits would have been relatively flat.
Our non-business costs were flat versus last year and down slightly sequentially.
Now I will turn the call over to Guillermo for a review of our Materials Technologies segment results.
Thanks Corning.
Please turn to Slide 14.
The Materials Technologies segment delivered another very strong quarter including record safety performance driven by good top line growth and significant leverage to the bottom line with higher volumes and very tight cost focus.
The new organization is in place and delivering on its commitments.
We have taken action on our restructuring plans and will start seeing benefits from lower costs in the coming quarter.
The team is excited to have full and direct control over all the key elements of their business performance including operations and supply chain.
Electronic Materials sales were up 13% versus prior year as we have seen increased demand across all three businesses.
Higher demand in process materials was driven by significant growth in the memory market.
We are leveraging tighter markets to secure long-term volume commitments and drive pricing.
We expect to begin to see pricing benefits next quarter.
Advanced Materials continues to grow as customers ramp production of their next generation nodes.
And finally Delivery Systems business activities remains at a high level although we will likely see it drop off later in fiscal year 2015.
Performance Materials grew 6% as strong growth across all the businesses more than offset the negative currency impact.
Most of our segment currency impact was in Performance Materials business.
End market demand remains strong and we are additionally benefiting from share gain and successful new product introduction.
Sequential volumes were down 6% on typical materials seasonality and strong prior quarter equipment business in Electronics.
Versus last year EBITDA of $129 million was up 45% to a 24.7% margin and operating income of $105 million was up 63% to a 20% margin.
Strong operating leverage on the volume increases productivity continued tight cost focus and negative prior year inventory revaluation drove the increase.
Profits were down sequentially on lower volumes and lower Q4 incentive compensation costs.
Now I will turn over the call to Simon.
Thanks Guillermo.
I will make a few comments on our other two segments.
First our Corporate segment.
Just to clarify this segment consists of our LNG and helium container manufacturing businesses.
For Q1 of last year this segment also included our PUI business which we exited in December 2013.
This segment also includes our corporate costs which are not business specific.
Examples include Seifis costs Scotts costs and other corporate functions.
As we have said before we no longer allocate general corporate costs to our business units.
In terms of results for this quarter our sales are flat versus last year excluding the PUI business.
In Q1 of last year the PUI business had about $35 million of sales and contributed about $0.04 of EPS.
This year LNG sales were up and helium container sales were down.
Our LNG projects continue as expected and we have not yet seen any sign of a slowdown in development activity although we will be watching this very carefully.
In fact just yesterday we announced a new order to provide LNG technology and equipment to the Cameron LNG project in Louisiana.
This represents our third large order for the US LNG export market.
Excluding PUI segment profits improved as business profits were up and corporate costs were down.
The other segment is Energy-from-Waste.
The Tees Valley Projects continue as expected.
For Tees Valley 1 we have already begun commissioning a few of the systems and we expect to be in start-up mode through the rest of 2015 so do not expect any revenue or earnings in 2015 in this segment.
In short no change to what we have told you before.
We do see a small ongoing reported loss associated with the land lease and commercial management of this segment.
Now I will turn the call back over to Seifi.
Thanks again Simon.
Now please turn to Slide number 15 for a discussion of our outlook.
At this point in time based on what we know today our guidance for the next quarter is $1.50 to $1.55 per share.
At midpoint this will be an increase of 16% over the previous year.
As for all of fiscal year 2015 we are slightly increasing our guidance to $6.35 to $6.55 per share.
At midpoint this represents a 12% increase over our 2014 results.
All of the numbers that I just quoted are in actual exchange rates.
We are not going to use currency changes as an excuse to reduce our targets.
As for capital expenditure in 2015 we expect $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion which is in line with what we have told you before.
We continue to enjoy a very robust backlog with a high level of secure on-site pipeline projects.
The backlog of $3.2 billion is down from $3.5 billion last quarter as we are very pleased to have one of our major projects in China successfully on the stream.
As you have heard me say before we are totally focused on actions that we can control to deliver on our commitments.
The new organization is in place.
We are executing on our improvement actions and our teams are working together to achieve our goals.
Our new structure enables us to reduce overhead costs which we have continued to improve cash flow and earnings in 2015.
In addition our new organization and our new reward system allows us to be more effective in improving performance of our existing assets and businesses with a laser focus on cost reduction utilization and asset management.
I once again want to thank all of the very talented committed and dedicated people and Air Products for their contribution and I continue to be optimistic about the future of Air Products and our ability to deliver excellent results.
Now we will be delighted to answer your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And well go first to John McNulty from Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning John.
How are you this morning? Great great thank you.
So a question.
With regard to the margin improvements youve gotten 240 basis points of improvement year-over-year.
And I guess and listening to some of Cornings comments it sounds like a lot of the cost-cutting initiatives havent really started to kick in all that much yet and its more - those are more on the come as we kind of look forward.
So I guess of the margin improvement that we saw so far on the year to - year-over-year improvement how much would you say is tied to cost-cutting and efficiency programs versus just volume and pricing coming in and kind of what you would have expected normally anyway? I would say its about half and half.
Okay.
And then just with regard to the targets that you are thinking about for 2015 in terms of some of the cost-cutting levers that you expect I know originally you had said look to close the gap to be the best we need kind of 600 basis points to 700 basis points of margin improvement.
How much do you think you get in 2015 based on the cost-cutting initiatives youve already put in place? John you know you are asking obviously a very good question.
But you know that Im going to dance around in giving you a timing.
We have said that our goal is to close the 600 basis points of gap in EBITDA margin that we have with the best performing in the industry.
We demonstrated that we are making progress 240 basis points is a significant step forward in one quarter.
And we will continue working at this thing as fast as we can.
There is a lot of other things that can happen in terms of the worldwide economy and all of that.
But we are focused on closing the gap as soon as we possibly can John.
Great.
Thanks very much for the color Seifi.
Thank you sir.
And well go next to Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Yes good morning fellas.
Good morning Duffy.
Hi Duffy.
A question around the comment you made on FX Seifi.
Where you said actual exchange rates it sounds like what you are saying is come hell or high water you are going to deliver those numbers no matter what currency does.
But can you talk about what type of headwinds you are having to overcome at say the midpoint of that number for this year? Duffy yes you are very right in characterizing my comment.
The second thing is that overall the headwind for us for fiscal year 2015 where the exchange rates are right now versus 2014 is a $0.25 headwind.
That means that if exchange rates were the same as they were in 2014 our guidance would have been $0.25 higher than what we have given you.
Thats the order of magnitude of the headwind that we are talking about.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
And then Corning a question for you on the oil comment you made where you didnt see really any effect in Q1.
Going forward would you expect that to change? Do you see some puts and takes if oil stays at this lower level over the next year? Corning you want? So I think at this point we would say if you look at what exactly impacts us in oil let me just kind of put this in perspective.
So lets say exploration and production whats our sales into that area? It is nitrogen for Oil Field Services and in Guillermos area some chemicals that go into the fracking mixes just to span it its about $35 million of nitrogen we sell into Oil Field Services its like an $8 billion business and its even less in Performance Materials.
Now obviously if there is a big change it can impact project timing and all of that.
But for right now weve fully anticipated that in the guidance weve given you.
Great thanks fellas.
Thank you.
Thanks Duffy.
And well go next to David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Thank you.
Good morning Seifi.
Good morning David.
How are you David? Very good.
Thank you.
Very good.
Seifi you mentioned again that your core business is Industrial Gases.
Any further thoughts or update on what that means for Materials Technologies long-term in the portfolio? Well we told you that we are not in a hurry to do anything because I thought I mentioned this at our July call that I said that these guys are going to really perform.
And Guillermo is helping me prove me right by performing.
I mean look at the improvement that that business has enjoyed in the last two quarters.
My God their EBITDA margins are now 25% their EBIT margin is around 20%.
So we are going to watch that business improve and then everybody understands what their long-term plan is but we are not in a hurry to do anything.
They are doing a great job and who knows if they get their EBITDA margins to 32% 33% and their EBIT margins to more than 25% they might suddenly become a core business.
Very good.
And just on pricing Seifi can you talk about the success of your recent price increase as well as the overall industry pricing environment? David Im with - Im not going to make any comments about pricing David.
I dont think its appropriate for us to engage in that kind of a conversation.
I apologize for that.
My lawyer is kind of - hes very conscious that we should not say anything about pricing.
Understood.
Thank you very much.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Well go next to Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Thanks very much.
There was a comment made at one point in the presentation about how your larger customers were doing better than your smaller customers.
I wonder if you could just expand on I think it was specific to a particular region.
I wonder if you could just expand on that dynamic and just help us understand what that is and why that might be? Very good question Vincent.
I think I will have Corning address that please.
Corning? Vincent thats more or less an empirical observation of whats going on in the ground in Europe for us right now.
Personally I think the larger customers just simply have broader exposure to broader markets including export markets where the smaller ones tend to be more local.
And I see that as probably whats driving it.
Okay.
And maybe just as a follow up.
Could you just walk us through sort of where merchant utilization rates are in the various geographies and what your sort of outlook is there? Okay yes.
Merchant rates are very close to where they were as last time we reported.
So that means in North America we are lets say in the high 70s mid 70s in Latin America Europe in the high 70s.
Asia I would say is now mid to high 70s so thats just slightly down from where we were last time and in part thats because with this new on-stream we just brought on some new capacity.
And in addition to that as we rebalance our wholesale/retail weve shed some of the wholesale business.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Well go next to Jim Sheehan with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Good morning Seifi.
Just with respect to the FX headwind that you mentioned $0.25 and you said that your EPS targets would have been $0.25 higher.
Could you just comment a little bit about what you have done to offset that headwind? Jim what we have done is everything that we are doing.
I mean I have always said that for us to do what we need to do at Air Products is not the one magic wand its about 10 000 different things that we need to do right.
And that is what we are focused on the whole organization change the whole focus on every single dollar that we have spent the organization being rewarded based on specific areas of performance where people have line of sight.
Its just - I can just go through a list of about 500 items that we are doing.
Everybody - the great thing is that we have all of our 20 000 people engaged.
This is not a one-person job or 10-person job we need to get all of the organization engaged.
Im very encouraged because when I look at the safety result and I see a 50% improvement that means our people are paying attention and they are involved.
So we have to do many many many many things that we would have done.
I mean whatever the exchange rates would have been obviously we would have wanted to have a guidance of $6.80.
I mean thats what we are working toward.
And the currencies are going to be what the currencies are.
But I dont think we should use that as an excuse and say well now lets lower the guidance.
We have said we are going to do something and we are going after that.
Great and also one for Scott thanks for the guidance on 2015 free cash flow outlook.
I was just wondering if you could also comment a little bit about how that looks further out say in 2016.
Scott? Thanks Seifi.
So yes thanks for the question.
So as Seifi has mentioned we are looking at maximizing the cash flow out of our existing assets driving EBITDA increases.
And now we have an organization that is accountable and have all the levers all the way through that incentive compensation targets.
So the main thing we are looking to do is drive cash flow from the assets we have.
We dont excuse me we dont have a target in terms of capital spending were going to look at what the opportunities are that are out there.
As Seifi had mentioned every project greater than $3 million comes to him for his review.
And I will tell you the review and the discussion is around why is this consistent with our strategy? Whats the external market whats the competitive position and how do we get a good investment for the risk and create value for the shareholder? So a little bit more background.
We do not - we are obviously working as I mentioned trying to get to free cash flow positive for this year and looking forward to driving that even more in the future.
So dont have a target per se but just telling you what we are focused on and how we are managing the business.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And well go next to Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi this is Wei Zhang calling for Kevin.
I just had a quick question on EMEA.
So the sales decline seemed to be primarily from FX.
Do you expect to see any impact on - from lower volumes basically due to the macro condition over there? Corning do you like to handle that? So I think a key thing in our strategy right now is to do the right things to do the 10 000 small things that Seifi talked to get our cost position right to get the restructuring.
And the overall economic environment I dont know that Ive got any greater insight than you do other than our most recent results.
So I want to be prepared for volume moving up or down.
I dont think anybody sees a huge upswing in the offing.
But our goal is just to be ready for whatever eventuality plays out.
Great thanks.
And just a follow up if I may.
Do you see any cost relief from FX in terms of capital spending for fiscal year 2015? So an impact on our capital costs based on the currency shifting is that the question? Yes CapEx.
Scott? Yes let me comment on that.
So first of all obviously we are not in the business of trying to project out where currency and exchange rates are going to go.
What we do is make sure that when weve got a project that has difference in terms of revenues and some equipment thats coming from a different currency we are going to hedge from a cash flow perspective we are not going to hedge from an earnings perspective.
So in our latest guidance at $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion obviously weve looked at where the currencies are.
Frankly weve got a lot of investment going in in China weve got a lot of investment in the UK.
The RMB and the pound havent moved that much.
And so our guidance continues to be $1.7 billion to be $1.9 billion.
But again the key point here is the translation is going to be whatever the translation is going to be.
What we are focused on is generating cash for the shareholder.
And to the extent that there is any cash exposure well hedge that for a project but we dont - we are not going to have the - hedge the earnings.
Great thanks.
Thank you.
Well go next to Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Jeff.
How are you doing? Im very fine.
The - in the cash flow statement your cash flows year-over-year were down about 11% even though your earnings were up 12%.
And I think your - I think your guidance for the year or your talk for the year is that you wish to be free cash flow positive.
Just being free cash flow positive is not really very much growth in operating cash flow.
Was there something unusual that happened in the first quarter? And in general what kind of growth are you expecting from your cash from operations this year? Very good question.
Scott is going to answer that.
Yes sure.
Thanks Jeff.
Good question.
So again as I mentioned and Seifi has been very clear around the simplified cash flow metric.
It is very straightforward it is clear where its consistent between the internal organization all the way to the outside.
And again as has been mentioned there is EBITDA targets down through the organization.
Clearly though then there is some of us at Air Products that are managing the full cash flow beyond the simplified approach.
So examples that we saw in this quarter for example were pension contributions about $76 million of pension contributions.
We had some cash associated with the severance actions we are taking and we also had a little bit in terms of the earnings that we recognized from our affiliates versus the timing that we received those dividends.
So we are managing that as well as receivables and so on and so forth.
We are trying to make sure that we are optimizing all of that but recognize again the simplified free cash flow mechanism is just that its clear its simple and its got alignment between inside the organization and outside.
Okay.
And then for my follow-up.
Last year in the first quarter there were large maintenance expenses especially in the United States and there were some outage issues.
What was the change in maintenance costs year-over-year in the first quarter? Corning will answer that Jeff because its mainly in industrial gases.
Yes.
So I dont know that I have the number fluid for you in the second but I just want to clarify.
So these are maintenance outages by and large which a large refinery will schedule oftentimes years in advance and then during that outage when they dont need the product we and other suppliers all do our outages.
So we can follow up with you on what the exact swing was quarter from quarter and we did see a drop off in that.
It was offset by a sale of equipment.
And Im being coached here its about a $0.01 impact that gave us in the first quarter.
Jeff just to emphasize that Sure.
the difference in maintenance cost translates into $0.01 in earnings per share.
So out of the $0.21 increase $0.01 was lower maintenance costs.
Okay great.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Well go next to David Manthey with Robert W.
Baird.
Yes hi good morning.
The 3% year-on-year price increase in North America seems really very high just given that I assume thats concentrated in Merchant Gas.
And Im wondering can you give us some color on how youve been able to drive that kind of improvement and with volumes remaining as strong as they have were you that far below market on big percentages of your business or whats going on there? I know the market is strong right now but that seems like a very high number.
I think Corning first - I mean before Corning answers the question it is the result of having high-quality focused management but Corning? First I just like to thank you for asking me this question because although Seifi doesnt want to talk about pricing in this call let me assure you when Im alone with him there is a lot of questions about how Im doing on pricing.
So I would say its a reflection in some degree with supply and demand and increased loading in the market as well as just a lot of discipline and using tools and so forth to go out and get the pricing that we are entitled to in this market.
We give our customers good service and we are entitled to our pricing.
Okay so its just blocking and tackling looks good though.
Congratulations its a good number.
Thank you.
Thank you for your comment.
We very much appreciate that.
Thank you.
And well go next to P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Good morning.
Hey P.J.
how are you today? Good good.
Seifi you had talked about increasing asset density as one of the key reasons for going to a regional structure.
Can you tell us on that where do you stand on that? How do we measure the performance of that from outside? Well quite frankly I think one of the measures would be to see how we are doing in terms of pricing and volumes.
I mean that - if you have that kind of a stuff that you will be able to get the kind of numbers we are talking about in terms of pricing.
But we have not P.J.
as you know in the last two quarters done anything dramatic in terms of buying somebody or building an asset or anything like that.
So we havent done that.
We certainly look for opportunities to be able to do that.
But improvements in the result is not any significant structural change its just the blocking and tackling that Corning was talking about before.
Thank you.
And then secondly a few companies have talked about delays in coal gasification secure projects I think Corning mentioned that.
So what are you seeing in the backlog in terms of any potential delays either due to the oil price or slow China growth et cetera? On that one I can say that on the existing projects that we have and their execution we are not seeing and we dont expect to see any change or any cancellations due to lower oil prices.
Those projects are solid.
They are under construction and we dont have any indication of anything happening to that.
As far as any prospective future ones P.J.
we just have to wait and see.
Its difficult to make predictions about that.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Well go next to John Roberts with UBS.
Thank you.
Do you have a raw material index for the Materials segment and some indication of where raw materials are entering the March quarter versus where they were a year ago? I will have Guillermo answer that because raw materials are really only relevant in his business.
Fortunately raw material for the rest of our business is air and natural gas which seems to be at very low prices these days.
Correct I was just asking about Materials.
Yes.
Thank you sir.
If you look at our portfolio Electronics and Performance Materials first in Electronics probably we are not seeing - the oil impact that kind of thing is not a big impact on our raw materials.
We are seeing some changes but its really around some of the supply/demand dynamics on metals and other materials that we use on different parts of our products.
And the material component is an important factor but costs - the conversion costs the shipping the whole supply chain is very complex so there is a lot of different drivers in Electronics.
So the bigger raw material purchase is really more on our Performance Materials business.
We are seeing some changes there.
Most of raw materials are not - I mean oil ethylene propylene in some products have some impact but we are seeing its not the biggest driver for the types of raw materials that we are driving.
So again supply and demand dynamics and some raw materials are really driving where our costs are going.
So we will probably see some cost reductions but not as much as we expected.
A good example of that would be for example EO the ethylene prices are coming down but that material the tightness is really dictating the price.
So we should get some improvement but its going to vary a lot by business.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Thank you.
Well go next to Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs Thanks for me come in.
Two questions if I might.
Seifi youve taken a pretty I guess low-key approach to some of the head count reduction in terms of sizing it and how fast and how furious.
But it seems like youve maybe reduced head count by about 500 so far.
Can you talk about what the anticipated benefit from that would be and then any anticipated additional moves that would be forthcoming? Well Bob.
First of all we would have waited until you asked a question anyway.
We wouldnt have ended the call without your question.
So just - I just wanted to make sure you know that.
In terms of 500 people thats kind of the number that is in the footnotes.
Order of magnitude what saving that would result to is order of magnitude about $50 million to $60 million.
Okay.
On an annual basis.
Right.
And Guillermo Im wondering in your business the EBITDA margins obviously have moved up quite prominently.
How does the return on capital in your business compare to the Gases business? Well thanks its a very good question.
I would say hopefully well get a little bit - give a little bit more of a glimpse of that at our coming investor conference so that you can see a little bit of the feel.
In general we are less capital intensive and our returns are versus our peers and versus gases I would say higher and doing very well.
And thats really what we look at.
If you look at our improvement to be non-dilutive to the company EBITDA is our target.
But to get there really for us its about our operating margins because our depreciation doesnt change that much and our returns on the investments that we make.
Bob we will try to do a good job delineating that at our Investor Day.
But for sure the return on capital is significantly higher obviously.
Yes it certainly makes it seem like it will be a hard decision to not embrace them as part of the portfolio if these trends continue.
Well you are asking the question and Guillermo is smiling.
So he is happy for your comments.
Terrific.
Thanks guys.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Bob.
Thank you.
Well go next to Mike Harrison from First Analysis.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Mike.
How are you? Hello Mike.
Doing well thank you.
Guillermo you mentioned that on the Process Materials side you expect pricing to start improving in the rest of the year.
I believe thats an improvement from what has been some historical pressure on pricing.
Can you talk a little bit about whats driving your more positive outlook there? Great.
Well thank you for that question.
Let me sort of use this opportunity to point out two things.
One as you said this is the segment that traditionally has been underperforming for us and the industry has over invested if you look at the photovoltaic history and if you look at our - a lot of the efforts that we put in the last two years its really been about improving this business.
Weve shutdown production right sized our capacity shifted more of our supply to Asia where we have most of our business.
So we are in a much better cost competitive position to supply - profitably supply the industry and thats driven the improvement.
But if you look at the pricing trends because of the oversupply supply/demand balance its been pretty negative over time.
What we are seeing is just things are turning around especially driven by memory a few key raw materials have really jumped and thats really driving the supply/demand balance in a very different direction.
So we are fortunate that weve done the right things and we are well-positioned to take advantage of this from a cost perspective.
But more importantly now we are engaging our customers to make sure that not only we supply them today and thats the supply/demand is dictating some of the pricing but also talking about volumes as we look at debottlenecking and adding capacity in the future.
We want to learn from the history and this is an important area for win-win for our customers.
They require reliability of supply they want to know they are going to have the material for their needs in the coming years.
So we want to make sure that we are reliable with them.
But at the same time we want to learn from some of the dynamics from the past and be very judicious on how we add capacity so that they get reliability but we also get the returns that we expect on any investments we make.
All right.
And then just looking at North American tonnage business I was hoping that you could maybe discuss your expectations for outage activity for your refiners in the rest of the year particularly as we see gasoline inventories creep quite a bit higher in the US.
Yes so our current forecast anticipates the outages.
I think we have given guidance in general we expect this to be a lower year than last year.
Last year was a bit of an anomaly.
I guess the thing I would like to stress in this is these are big outages and they are timed when the customer is already planning to take their units down.
So I dont think there is any changes from any of our customers in a significant way changing around outage plans based on the shift in oil prices right now.
Thanks very much.
Thank you Mike.
Thank you.
And well take our final question from Don Carson from Susquehanna Financial.
Thank you.
Thank you.
A couple questions one on volume.
What you used to refer to as Merchant looks like it was relatively flat as operating rates were flattish.
So of your growth in tonnage how much of it was from new projects versus how much of it was just increased demand for Hico? And as we look forward to the rest of the year whats the contribution from new projects whether you want to quantify it in either a volume or revenue or earnings per share framework? Thanks Don.
Good to hear from you.
Corning will address that.
So Don I think you are referring mainly to Americas when you say that? Yes.
Okay.
So actually we had volume growth in this quarter in liquid/bulk across all the different products and they were up lets say mid-single-digit.
So there was something positive there.
We did see good volume growth in this quarter in the Gulf Coast.
A fair amount of that is customers who are seeking additional hydrogen beyond which theyve necessarily contracted for that gives us a certain amount of the uplift.
As we go through the year as is always the case any on-streams we have are listed later on in the slide deck.
But I think the - let me see how to say this any forecasts any issues we have on that are sort of encompassed in our current set of numbers that weve given you.
Does that answer your question? There is no - there is no like the big project coming on in the Gulf Coast the duration of this year if thats what you are asking? Okay.
But and then globally I mean you used to talk about almost a $0.30 number in terms of EPS contribution for new projects.
Is the kind of still what you are thinking of in terms of contribution this year? Yes.
So I dont think weve given out specific numbers on what we expect new projects coming in.
Youve seen the impact of PCEC that was a partial month well see more of that as we go forward and we have other start-ups coming.
Okay.
And Seifi just one follow-up on restructuring.
Obviously its going a little faster than expected.
I know in the past youve talked about a $600 million EBITDA benefit from restructuring with half kind of SG&amp;A and half sort of production and distribution efficiencies.
Is everything we are seeing today from sort of these overhead cuts or are you starting to see some efficiencies in the business as well? We are seeing some because if you look at our direct margins in terms of before overheads and all of that the direct margins are up too.
So we are seeing some improvements in operations and distribution but they are not material right now.
But I think you will see a lot of that as our organization kind of gets settled down as our people in the regions and sub-regions get their hands on the details and all of the - as I said the 10 000 things to do.
So I would expect that those would materialize more in 2016 than in 2015 Don.
Okay.
Thank you.
Well.
Thank you very much.
Im going to make some comments about before we wrap-up please.
We are waiting for the queue from the operator.
But first of all Id like to thank all of you for being on our call today.
But then I just want to say that we will be holding our 2015 Investor Conference in New York on March 31.
And well be - that event will also be webcast.
What we will do in that Investor Conference obviously we are not going to announce any newer strategy or any new direction for the company what - where we are going.
And obviously we are going to be consistent with what we have told you before.
But the key element of that meeting is going to be to giving you exposure to the real people who are actually doing these things.
The people who are key executive who are actually responsible for delivering the results so that you see that there is a depth of talents within their products and then I think its worthwhile to hear directly from them about what they are doing.
I mean in that Investor Conference are expect to be talking for 10 minutes and then give our people and other five hours to tell you what theyre really doing.
So thats really the purpose of the meeting and we are looking forward to your participation.
But once again thank you for being on the call and have a wonderful day.
Thanks again.
And that does conclude todays conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Air Products and Chemicals Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
Beginning today's call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Orlando.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Air Products' second quarter 2015 earnings results teleconference.
This is Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
I'm pleased to be joined today by Seifi Ghasemi our Chairman President and CEO; Scott Crocco our CFO; and our senior business leaders.
After our comments we will be pleased to take your questions.
Please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Our earnings release and the slides for this call are available on our website at airproducts.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statement disclosure on page 2 of the slides and at the end of today's earnings release.
Now I am pleased to turn the call over to Seifi.
Thank you Simon and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for taking time from your busy schedule to be on our call today.
We do appreciate your interest in our company.
First let me introduce our team who are on the call today.
In addition to Simon I have Mr.
Scott Crocco our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mr.
Corning Painter Air Products' Executive Vice President responsible for Industrial Gases; and Mr.
Guillermo Novo Air Products' Executive Vice President in charge of Materials Technologies.
All of us will be participating in the call and in answering your questions.
I'm very pleased to report that Air Products delivered strong results in the second quarter of our fiscal year 2015.
Despite significant currency headwinds and weaker economic growth in most of the geographies that we operate in we delivered good improvement in our safety performance our EBITDA margins are up 440 basis points versus last year and our earnings per share improved by 17%.
This is a significant improvement versus last year and is a clear demonstration of the effectiveness of the strategic actions we have taken in the last 10 months.
Our new organization is in place it is functioning well and delivering results.
So before I go any further I want to thank all of the talented dedicated and committed employees of Air Products for doing such a great job.
What we are presenting to you today is the result of our 20 000 employees coming to work every day committed to serve our customers and improve every aspect of our performance.
Our people are the force behind our progress.
I certainly consider it an honor and a privilege to be part of this winning team.
Now please turn to slide number three our safety performance.
Year-to-date we improved our lost time injury rate by 28% and our recordable injury rate by 30%.
As Scott said during the investor conference excellence in safety requires focus discipline process orientation and execution.
These same characteristics are required for excellence in business performance too.
The improvement in our safety results which is our number one priority is encouraging but we need to move forward to achieve our goal of zero incidents and zero accidents.
Now please turn to slide number 4.
I would like to continue to remind everybody that our goal is and will continue to be a constant and persistent effort to become the safest and most profitable industrial gas company in the world providing excellent service to our customers.
Now please turn to slide number 5.
You have heard us many times that our goal is to create value for our shareholders.
To do that we are focused on two key elements.
One responsible allocation of capital.
Air Products generates a significant amount of cash.
We the management of the company fully understand that the proper and responsible allocation of that capital is a clear element of value creation.
The second key point is that it is not enough to have a strategy.
You have to be able to execute it.
Strategy without execution is worthless.
So we are fully committed to actually execute our five-point strategic plan.
Before I comment on our strategic plan please go to slide number 6 which in simple words explains our overall management philosophy.
We have shown this slide to you before but it is important to emphasize the key points that cash is king EPS doesn't determine the long-term value of the company it is the share price and the importance of capital allocation in addition to reorganization.
Now please go to slide number 7.
This in summary is our strategic plan.
We have made several presentations explaining the details and our executives have spent a full day at our Investor Conference on March 31 describing how we are implementing this plan.
I have this slide as a reference for you.
All of the presentations that we have made at our Investor Day are posted on our website for your reference and I highly encourage you to take a look at them if you have not already done so.
Now please turn to slide number 8.
On Monday April 20 we announced that Air Products has had the honor and privilege of being awarded a contract to build own and operate with our partners ACWA the world's largest industrial gas complex to supply about 75 000 tons per day of industrial gases to Saudi Aramco's refinery in Jazan Saudi Arabia.
This is by far the largest contract we have ever won in our company's 75-year history.
We did have a conference call to explain this project and the details of that conference call are again on our website.
We've included the highlights here for your reference and we will be happy to answer any questions about it later on.
The key point that I would like to make is that the award of this project demonstrates that Air Products has the technology people and the self-confidence to compete for the world's largest industrial gas projects.
It also demonstrates that in addition to our focus on improving our day-to-day performance we are committed to participate and win the right growth opportunities in the energy sector environmental sector and the emerging markets.
Now please turn to slide number 9 a summary of our quarterly results.
Scott will go into the details of these numbers but I would like to draw your attention to the significant improvement in our margins 440 basis points a key goal for us to become the most profitable industrial gas company in the world.
In addition despite the significant headwinds from currency of $0.09 per share we improved our EPS by 17% versus last year and had positive free cash flow.
In particular the Materials Technologies team operating more and more as an independent business under Guillermo's leadership delivered great results driven by the strong market position and focused cost and productivity efforts.
We continue to be optimistic about the future of Materials Technologies.
Now please turn to slide number 10 where you can see our steady progress toward improving our EBITDA margin.
We do appreciate that we still have a long ways to go to meet our stated goal of being the most profitable industrial gas company in the world but the key fact is that we have started on our journey and we are making progress.
Air Products is moving forward with the full force and support of our people.
I am very proud of our entire team and optimistic and excited about our future.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Scott Crocco our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to go through the details and then I will come back after comments from Corning Guillermo and Simon to make some closing remarks and then we will answer your questions.
Scott.
Thank you very much Seifi.
Now please turn to slide 11 for a more detailed review of our Q2 results.
Sales of $2.4 billion decreased 6% as strong underlying growth of 5% was offset by an unfavorable currency impact of 5% and a lower energy pass-through impact of 6%.
Volumes increased 4% primarily from strength in two areas.
In Gases Asia volume growth was driven primarily by new plants in China.
And Materials Technologies again saw solid growth across all businesses.
Pricing was 1% higher driven by price increases in Gases Americas Gases Europe and Materials Technologies.
We delivered operating leverage again this quarter as EBITDA improved 10% and operating income improved by 15% despite the lower sales.
Versus prior year EBITDA margin improved 440 basis points to 29.4% while our operating margin improved 340 basis points to 18.3%.
This is the highest quarterly operating margin in over 25 years.
Sequentially our margins improved primarily due to Materials Technologies and higher sales in our equipment businesses.
Versus prior year net income increased 19% and earnings per share grew by 17% and we continue to improve our return on capital employed which increased by 80 basis points versus prior year to 10.5%.
Please turn to slide 12.
My presentation at our Investor Conference last month focused almost entirely on cash flow.
We do not want to borrow money to pay dividends.
This is consistent with the way we are focusing on running the business.
As you can see in our second quarter of 2015 distributable cash flow was up 14% and free cash flow was up $63 million as we generated higher EBITDA and spent less on maintenance capital.
We are focused on optimizing maintenance capital spending the right amount at the right time and properly supporting the base business.
These improvements were more than offset by an increase in cash taxes and dividends.
From a timing perspective it is not unusual for items to move around quarter to quarter particularly maintenance capital and cash taxes.
For the remainder of fiscal 2015 we expect to continue delivering higher EBITDA due to our cost-reduction efforts and our capital expenditures should decline in the second half of the year due to project timing.
We continue to work towards being free cash flow positive for fiscal year 2015.
Turning to slide 13 you can see an overview of this quarter's performance in terms of earnings per share.
Before I comment on our Q2 operating performance I would like to spend a moment reviewing two non-GAAP items both resulting from our organizational restructuring actions.
First our restructuring charges totaling $55 million pretax or $0.18 per share.
Second we recorded a pension settlement charge of $13 million pretax or $0.04 per share.
As I have mentioned on prior calls we expect to see restructuring costs and pension settlement costs during FY 2015 as we continue to simplify the organization and reduce costs.
Excluding these items our Q2 continuing operations EPS of $1.55 increased $0.23 or 17% versus last year.
Higher volumes increased EPS by $0.22.
Pricing energy and raw material taken together contributed $0.10.
Net cost performance was $0.02 unfavorable as the benefits of our cost-reduction actions were offset by higher incentive compensation costs of about $0.15 and an unfavorable impact from other income and expense of $0.04.
We have higher incentive compensation costs this year due to better expected performance versus lower incentive compensation costs last year due to worse performance.
Furthermore in Q2 we adjusted our incentive compensation for the first half of the year so this impact this quarter reflects both Q1 and Q2.
Our incentive compensation program is very well-aligned with the performance of each business unit and it encourages action and it rewards for delivering results.
Unfavorable currency translation was $0.09 as almost all currencies weakened against the dollar.
As a reminder our currency exposure is primarily translational as the vast majority of our products are made and sold in the same currency.
Equity affiliate income was a penny higher.
Interest expense was $0.03 lower due to higher capitalized interest and lower rates.
Our tax rate of 24% remained unchanged versus prior year.
And finally higher shares outstanding reduced earnings per share by $0.02.
Now to begin the review of our business segment results I'll turn the call over to Corning.
Thanks Scott.
As you heard us share at our Investor Conference last month the industrial gas team around the world is implementing our 5 Point Plan to drive business improvement.
You heard about what focus on the core means for Industrial Gases.
It means building density and integrated positions on a local basis.
We shared what the new organization enables.
Not just how we are organized but how the new organization enables better and faster decisions close to the action.
You heard examples from around the world of changes in behavior and decision-making driven by implementing our new culture of Safety Simplicity Speed and Self-confidence.
You heard a number of examples of local empowered teams making changes in the way we operate plants manage assets deliver products source key materials and services all to deliver improved business results.
And finally you heard how locally aligned rewards where people can see how their actions impact their pay motivates our people and reinforces teamwork.
As Scott mentioned in most areas we have accrued for higher bonus payouts this year compared to last year.
This is great news as it shows the alignment of employer rewards and shareholder value.
You can see the impact of these changes in our safety and business results.
I would like to thank our people who continue to stay focused and are delivering.
Now turning to a common question the price of oil stayed in the $45 to $55 per barrel range during the quarter about half the price as a year ago.
As a reminder we have very little direct exposure to Oil Exploration &amp; Production probably $30 million to $40 million a year of sales but we have begun to see a few modest impacts -- some reduction in our liquid nitrogen volumes to the oilfield services market and some impact on our business to the offshore market.
And we have seen a few customers delaying project decisions; although it is always difficult to know exactly why.
But very importantly we have not seen any drop in the underlying hydrogen demand in the Americas as our refinery customers continue to run hard.
Finally as I'm sure you saw we announced last week that Marie Ffolkes will be joining Air Products next month as the new President Industrial Gases America.
We are excited to welcome Marie to this position.
She brings a strong track record of leadership and proven results.
With that please turn to slide 14 for a review of our Gases Americas results.
We delivered strong results this quarter as modest underlying sales growth with significant cost improvements translated into very strong margin growth versus a weak Q2 last year.
Sales of $890 million were down 14% versus last year as the pass-through of lower energy prices reduced sales by 13%.
The price of natural gas in the Houston Ship Channel was down almost 40% to about $3 per million BTU.
Currency primarily the Chilean peso Brazilian real and the Canadian dollar reduced our sales by 3%.
Underlying sales were up 2% on higher volumes and prices.
Volumes were up 1% with liquid oxygen nitrogen and argon volumes -- up in North America; although demand was not what we expected in March.
As I said hydrogen volumes remained strong and were up versus last year on fewer customer-scheduled maintenance outages.
Helium volumes were down across the region.
Sequentially volumes were down on Latin American seasonality and lower hydrogen volumes in North America driven by customer outages.
We see this as normal fluctuations in our pipeline hydrogen volumes and don't see any signs of an overall demand decline.
Our refinery customers continue to operate at high levels.
Pricing was up 1% versus last year as we continue to see the positive benefit of our pricing actions.
Our actions were partially mitigated by contract formula reductions for some of our liquid customers as the price of power and diesel fuel has come down.
Of course we are also seeing lower power and diesel costs.
Recall that last year we incurred much higher power costs as rates spiked during the extremely cold weather in North America.
Latin American pricing was strong reflecting the inflationary environment.
As you would expect we have profit headwinds from currency and lower energy pass-through as well as higher incentive compensation.
The team was able to more than overcome these headwinds and deliver 7% EBITDA and 7% operating income growth on the benefits of our restructuring actions lower maintenance costs volume leverage and positive price.
Operating margin of 20.4% was up 400 basis points with about a third coming from lower energy pass-through another third from volume and price and the rest from lower costs.
EBITDA margin of 33.7% was up 640 basis points.
Sequentially profits were down on currency lower volumes lower natural gas prices and higher incentive compensation partially offset by our restructuring actions.
And while we are very focused on driving cost improvements we were pleased to announce this week that we were awarded a new project by Big River Steel to support their hot rolled steel plant in Mississippi County Arkansas.
Consistent with our strategy our new integrated gases facility will drive density in the local area.
Now please turn to slide 15.
For the Europe Middle East and Africa region underlying sales and margins were essentially flat.
In these market conditions we continue to focus on cost and pricing action.
Versus last year sales of $449 million were negatively impacted by 15% from currency primarily the euro British pound and Polish zloty.
Energy pass-through also reduced sales by 2%.
Volumes were down 1% as packaged gas and liquid bulk volumes were essentially flat while on-site volumes were down slightly on customer and planned outages.
We are pleased that pricing improved by 1% in this weak economic environment.
Primarily driven by currency translation operating income was down significantly highlighting the need to continue to drive efficiency in Europe.
We have taken actions enabled by our new organization and expect these to begin to show in the P&amp;L through the rest of the year but there is no question that the trading conditions in Europe continue to be challenging.
Please turn to slide 16.
Gases Asia delivered another strong quarter with the combination of significant volume growth and cost focus driving margin improvement.
Underlying sales were up 12% with the reported sales up 7% to $393 million due to lower energy pass-through and currency.
Volumes were up 15% driven by new projects.
As Wilbur said at the Investor Conference our large oxygen projects in China are starting up.
Customers are operating their gasifiers; they are taking oxygen and we are getting paid.
Overall merchant volumes were up mid-single digits in Asia.
Our China liquid oxygen and nitrogen business was flat as we increased retail business while reducing wholesale volumes.
We still see end-market demand growth in China but certainly at a slower rate than a few years ago.
Sequentially volumes were up 1% despite the Lunar New Year holiday.
Pricing was down 3% as continued overcapacity in China pressures liquid oxygen nitrogen and argon pricing.
I am happy to say that with Zhengyuan onstream now in April we have no further merchant China capacity in our backlog.
EBITDA of $144 million was up 14% and the EBITDA margin of 36.7% was up 200 basis points versus last year primarily driven by the new plants and lower costs overcoming the negative price and currency impacts.
Sequentially profits were down primarily due to currency price and higher incentive compensation partially mitigated by the benefits of our restructuring actions.
In terms of new business in Asia we expect to announce a new project award from a large customer this quarter.
I will close with a few words on the Global Gases segment.
You'll recall that this segment includes most of our air separation unit sale of equipment business as well as costs associated with the industrial gas business which are not region-specific.
Our sales were roughly flat with last year as ongoing project activity was about flat and currency was negative.
We had a positive impact from a contract wrap-up this quarter which we don't expect to reoccur.
Our nonbusiness costs were flat versus last year as the benefit of our cost-reduction actions was offset by higher development spending.
Now I will turn the call over to Guillermo for a review of our Materials Technologies segment results.
Thank you Corning.
Please turn to slide 17.
The Materials Technologies team delivered another very strong quarter with double-digit underlying sales growth mix improvement productivity and our cost focus driving margins to the highest level in the 2.5 years we have reported this segment.
As I shared with you at the Investor Conference we have a very strong portfolio of businesses with leading market positions.
Our people are excited about our focus on Materials Technologies and are delivering both safety and business results.
Segment sales of $533 million were up 7% versus prior year.
Underlying sales were up 11% on 9% volume growth and 2% positive pricing and mix.
Electronic sales were up 16% on positive volume and price with strong performance from all businesses.
Process Materials volumes were up on continued high memory demand.
As I mentioned to you last quarter given the tighter supply-demand dynamics we are working hard to sign a number of multiyear supply agreements with our customers.
This is a significant development for our Process Materials business and should improve stability of volumes and earnings in the future.
At the same time we delivered positive price this quarter.
Advanced Materials continues to deliver volume growth from customers operating their newest and most advanced production lines at high rates.
We saw good performance from Delivery Systems; although as I said before we expect this to begin to decline later in the year.
Sequential volumes were down on lower Lunar New Year activity but price and mix were still positive.
Performance materials saw more of the segment currency impact as underlying sales were up 4%.
Volumes were up mid-single digits on good end-market demand in all three businesses.
Price and mix was slightly negative but with lower raw material costs and greater productivity our margins still improved.
As you heard at the Investor Conference innovation is critical to our success in Materials Technologies.
We continue to see strong results across the Advanced Materials portfolio in electronics and our non-emissive catalysts in our polyurethane business.
Great examples of innovation driving business results we are also very pleased with the progress of our innovation initiatives in the rest of our portfolio.
EBITDA of $148 million was up 27% and EBITDA margins of 27.8% were up 440 basis points versus last year.
Both EBITDA and operating margins are at the highest levels in the 2.5 years we have reported this segment.
These strong results are despite headwinds from currency and higher incentive compensation versus last year.
We delivered leverage on volume growth positive price cost margin productivity and are beginning to see the results of our cost restructuring actions great results from the team.
We are now focused on our key priorities -- safety quality top-line growth margin enhancement and advancing our strategic initiatives.
All of this to drive further our business improvement.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Simon.
Thanks Guillermo.
I'll just comment quickly on our corporate segment that consists of our LNG and helium container businesses as well as corporate costs which are not business-specific.
Sales were up this quarter as higher LNG project activity more than offset lower helium container sales.
We have seen no change to the LNG projects we are executing in our backlog.
We have seen some signs of a slowdown in customer decision-making on new projects.
The improved profitability was driven by the higher LNG activity.
Corporate costs were flat with a reduction from our cost-saving actions offset by higher incentive compensation.
Now I will turn the call back over to Seifi.
Thank you again Simon.
Now please turn to slide number 18 for a discussion of our outlook.
At this time based on what we know today our guidance for the next quarter is $1.55 to $1.60 per share.
At midpoint this will be an increase of 8% over previous year.
As for all of fiscal year 2015 we are maintaining our guidance of $6.35 to $6.55 per share.
At midpoint this represents a 12% increase over 2014 results despite the fact that we expect almost $0.40 per share negative headwind from currency translation.
As I said last quarter we are not going to use currency headwinds as an excuse to lower our guidance this year.
We take very seriously what we have promised investors at the beginning of the year and consider it to be our job to take actions to deliver the numbers we promised rather than reducing our guidance each quarter because of currency fluctuations or economic conditions.
We also understand that our guidance implies a strong fourth quarter.
But again we expect that the accelerating benefits of our restructuring will give us the ability to deliver on this forecast.
As for capital expenditure in 2015 we now expect for it to be around $1.7 billion which is at the lower end of our previous guidance.
This is due to the impact of currency and also our increased focus on all capital expenditures.
We continue to enjoy a robust backlog with a high level of secure on-site pipeline projects.
The backlog of $3.2 billion remains unchanged from last quarter and you can see a list of our major projects in the appendix slides.
Please note that we have not included the significant project that we just won the Jazan project in this backlog.
In closing I would like to say that we are totally focused on actions that we can control to deliver on the commitments that we are making here.
We are executing on our improvement actions and our team is working together to achieve our goals.
Once again I would like to take a minute and thank all of the Air Products people for the outstanding job that they are doing.
At the end of the day our performance is the result of their hard work.
I'm incredibly proud of the 20 000 talented committed and motivated employees at Air Products and I certainly consider it an honor and a privilege as I said before to be part of this winning team.
We are working hard to move Air Products forward and create value for our shareholders.
Now with that we are more than happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions].
We will take our first question from Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Actually this is Matt Andrejkovics calling in for Vincent.
Thanks for taking the call.
The decline in the CapEx forecast can you just elaborate on some of the delays that you are seeing? There is no delays in our CapEx forecast.
The CapEx forecast is because of two reasons.
Number one we are focused on doing the right projects and the second thing is that some of the projects that we are doing are coming in under the estimate that we had before.
And obviously the effect of currency.
There is no delay on any projects.
And then can you just comment a little bit on the volume increases in Materials Technologies and also is it possible to parse out the difference in margin improvements that you're seeing from productivity as opposed to operating leverage? I would like to turn that over to Guillermo to answer for you.
In terms of the volume growth we have seen -- all the segments actually saw good volume growth.
In Electronics again the consumer side of the market is doing very well.
Memory demand is high and our position with the key players that are enjoying some of the growth from mobility from the cell phone markets and other faster growing markets have been very positive to us.
And we have been approving a lot of new technologies for the next generation nodes so those ramp rates have helped us.
If you look at Performance Materials again it has been broad-based.
Again this is not the peak season for us.
The peak season is the next two quarters for us based on weather and seasonality but we saw robust volumes around the world including in Europe and some of the segments that we have been focusing on given our differentiation.
We haven't disclosed the breakdown on what is driving the margins but I can tell you everything is contributing; there is no one big hit.
As I indicated at the conference call in New York we have taken actions specifically in the last year targeted business to drive improvement and that has given us a strong foundation.
On that now we are writing good volumes good plant loadings a lot of productivity initiatives at our plants to get higher capacities and yields throughout our networks.
The new products that we are launching are impacting our mix positive mix effect so all those things are contributing to our results.
Our next question comes from PJ Juvekar with Citi.
A couple of questions.
Seifi when you took over you started announcing local currency price increases but with lower energy and distribution costs I would imagine that getting pricing is difficult so can you just talk about the pricing dynamics that you are seeing in the marketplace? I will give you a general answer and I would like to turn it over to Corning to elaborate.
But overall we are still getting price increases in some of the markets that we operate in because of supply/demand and I would like to have Corning elaborate on that.
So first just to be clear anything that is let's say related to our onsite business or our HyCo business where there's energy in that you see that all in pass-through.
So when we report our pricing you are really looking at our liquid products that we deliver to a customer and you are seeing that the average price has gone up and down and a little bit so what is the trade-off of mix it means customers with higher prices or lower prices.
So that's what you see in it.
And if you think of what we referred to in North America you are seeing there the net impact we've been able to achieve in a pure price where we simply move the price up offset by places where in those liquid contracts there's a formula that takes the price down or a surcharge comes down in cases where power costs come down or diesel costs come down and that is fair.
And in terms of let's say net contribution margin to us that really holds us neutral because those costs are coming down for us at the same time.
And my second question is on your maintenance CapEx which was down by 50% which seems like a big cut was there something in the old CapEx number that shouldn't have been there and if you continue to produce this kind of free cash flow when does stock buyback come in the picture? Thank you.
PJ number one with respect to maintenance costs that obviously changes quarter by quarter based on the scheduled maintenance and all of that but in general I would like to make a comment that the company was spending -- talk about maintenance costs it includes the cost of trucks new trucks customer stations and all of that.
We are running the company on the basis of making sure that all of our plants operate reliably but we were kind of I wouldn't say as tight as we should be on maintenance costs and we are very focused on that.
But I do expect that different quarters that number will go up and down.
Overall for the company we have said that maintenance CapEx is something like $250 million to $300 million and that is the way we expect it to be.
With respect to the free cash we've always said that if we have free cash first of all let's focus on having the cash and once we have the cash then the best thing that we can do to create value for our shareholders is to invest that in organic growth new projects which are at a higher return than our cost of capital.
So that is our number one priority and fortunately we are seeing plenty of opportunities to do that whether it is on the large projects on our HyCo projects and all of that and you have seen some examples of that already.
Now if you go beyond that you can always increase the company's dividend and all of that before you get to buying shares.
Okay PJ? Our next question comes from Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
This is Ryan Berney on for Bob.
Just had a question on the energy pass-through is the level of sensitivity that we saw this quarter versus natural gas and power costs coming down in the Gases Americas segment? Is that pretty indicative of kind of what it would be in the future if those prices were to come back up? Yes there's nothing particularly unique on the way we did the calculation and if things reverse you just expect a reversal of what you saw in the P&amp;L here.
And then because it's kind of a fixed cost structure -- did you get some margin help this quarter and if so how much versus kind of the sales line coming down? Are you referring to our HyCo business or are you referring on our business in general? On the Gases Americas in general.
So a lot of moving pieces if you look at the Gases Americas as a whole so there is currency because we've got South America we've got Canada we've got the natural gas we have the incentive we have seasonality in Chile and all of that.
And if you wash all of that out and you think about norming for volumes I think we are in a similar range to where we have been.
Okay? Next we will hear from Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Can you explain the change in the interest expense from the first to the second quarter? Did your cash interest change or is it a different accounting treatment? Why did you go down so much with your net cash balances or net debt balances not changing very much? Very good.
Can I have your other questions and then we can answer them.
Interest expense is one.
The next one? The second one is your cash flow from operations in the first half is down $60 million notwithstanding the earnings growth.
Is that because you are putting a lot more in your pension? I don't know what you contributed in your pension in the first half of last year the first half of this year but why isn't the operating cash flow stronger all things being equal? Okay.
Anything else? That's it.
Okay very good.
I would like to obviously turn this over to Scott to go through the details for you.
So in terms of the interest I would say the biggest driver of interest change is really driven by currency as the main item.
And then in terms of free cash flow and I want to just reiterate an important point here.
I mean obviously we are looking at the all-in simple free cash flow metric.
We looked at a variety of other things as well but I think the simplicity of our free cash flow metric is very key around EBITDA and then interest expense cash taxes maintenance and so forth.
There are some other things in terms of cash flow from operations that obviously myself and my team are looking at very closely.
Things that we have that go through there for example are severance payments.
As we reduce the size of the organization we get it right-sized.
We are going to have severance payments that we don't have in our simple free cash flow metric but it obviously is something that we are managing.
We are obviously managing also working capital and we've had a use of cash from a working capital perspective and we are managing that as well and trying to make improvements there.
And so there are some other things too in terms of timing of payments from equity affiliates earnings versus dividends received and so the key point here is when we look at the free cash flow metric here for this -- the simple free cash flow metric for this quarter we've turned positive.
There's other things that are beyond that that again the people that need to be managing this are very clearly managing it and it has been a use of cash but we are focused on improving our working capital.
Obviously we are going to have to make the payments associated with severance but we are looking to drive improvements in all regards.
But obviously Jeff as you realize those are kind of one-time items that doesn't indicate our kind of operating rate on a steady-state basis that's why we separate them.
What was the pension change in the first half year-over-year in the funding? Scott has that number.
Overall contributions so again you've got contributions and then there is the expense which is non-cash it's on the order of a net favorable about $30 million or so inside of that and then again inside is also -- there is the severance.
The big item that we are seeing here in the second quarter associated with the cash flow that is not in the simple free cash flow metric is severance payments that we've incurred of course as well.
The severance payment is obviously significant Jeff considering what we have [indiscernible].
What was it? Our severance payments here for this quarter? About $55 million or something like that.
Moving on we will hear from Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
Seifi I think you got a 440 basis points EBITDA margin improvement over the last year.
You have cut the gap with Praxair in half from 7% to 3.6%.
How much of this is your $600 million cost-cutting program and within that cost-cutting program have you made any progress yet on the operational efficiencies or is it still all SG&amp;A and functional support costs? And then a related question would be on your volume growth as you load up plants in the U.S.
what kind of incremental margin should we expect? Okay.
First of all Don as you say we are 17% EPS up versus last year despite the currency the margin improvement of 440 basis points.
All of that is related to the cost actions that we have taken.
And most of that is on the first $300 million of so-called overhead cost reduction that we've been talking to you about.
We have made progress on the other $300 million but that is still not significant enough to show in our bottom line.
It will starting at the end of this year and in 2016.
So then with respect to volume growth I would like to have Corning comment on that.
So I think volume growth right now in this current economic environment we are in looking around the world is not something we want to be counting on going forward.
I think if you think about the restructuring we are doing if we were in very high let's say economic growth you could maybe be concerned on how you are going to keep up with it.
I think if you think about the economic environment we are in really globally today the cost actions we are taking are perfectly timed for the environment we are in.
Yes but in terms of specifically the question you had about what kind of a margin with the volume growth we will expect more than 50% leverage dropping more than 50% to the bottom line.
Corning did your volumes grow in the U.S.
and what are operating rates in your U.S.
merchant system? So operating growth that we reported for the U.S.
was 1% and I would say operating rates are in the high 70%s.
Our next question comes from Nils Wallin with CLSA.
More of a bigger-picture question here.
With your backlog of primarily focused on on-site and yet clearly one of your big strategic goals is to increase density are you going to need to spend some more CapEx to improve the density side of the portfolio or how can you increase density while still keeping your CapEx relatively disciplined? Well I think first of all you saw one example that Corning mentioned.
Big River Steel is a very good example that it would help us build density in one part.
But the other thing is that please keep in mind that most of our backlog the capital for that backlog has been mainly spent.
So as we go forward we don't need to spend $1.7 billion to support that backlog; that is already done.
Therefore we would have plenty of cash in order to still maintain a reasonable CapEx level of expenditure but we have plenty of cash to support our activities to increase density in different parts of the world on smaller projects which is what we are going to do.
I'd like to have Corning add to that please.
I think there's a path as well with your current assets to improve your density which is simply customers who are further away.
We can think about what our cost to serve them is and what the right price should be and we can think about what that is for our opportunities who are closer to us.
These are things that don't change overnight but with month after month of diligence this is something we can improve.
And then just a different question there is some degree of change in the gasoline pool going from tier 2 to tier 3 in terms of sulfur.
How much of an opportunity would you see that in for your hydrogen business? It is very difficult to quantify that right now but obviously that would be a positive.
For us to quantify that at this stage would be a challenge but until we know more about the details but it certainly is in the right direction.
Next we will hear from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
With regard to atmospheric gases in the Americas I think in your prepared remarks you'd commented that volumes were not what you expected in March and was wondering if you could elaborate on what you saw in terms of the monthly cadence and what you are seeing so far in April there? I would just like to make a general comment and I'll turn it over to Corning to elaborate on that.
But fundamentally we did see a softening of the economic activity in March.
I think everybody is seeing that and that seems to be continuing in April.
But Corning you want to elaborate on that? Just to quantify it a little bit.
So let's say underlying oxygen nitrogen argon liquid volumes we would say were up in the low to mid-single digits for the quarter as a whole and just to say the volumes in March and a little bit the March volumes in April they are not quite as strong as one would have hoped.
Okay.
And then a second question if I may on incentive comp.
Why did the accrual increase when the earnings outlook did not? And I guess more importantly how much might have been brought forward into the fiscal second quarter to true-up the accrual? It sounded like you had a fairly large drag there of $0.15 and I was hoping you might help us flesh that out? I will be more than happy to explain that.
You see the incentive system that we have for 95% of our people is based on constant currency.
So in constant currency we are increased -- our estimate -- if it was the same currency it would be telling you that we expect another -- we would be saying that our estimate for the year is $7.
Therefore we are accruing based on constant currency as an incentive for the people.
And since they are -- our people are delivering ahead of the plan in constant currency; therefore we are required by accounting rules to accrue for that because they are going to get more than the 100% in terms of bonus.
In the second quarter when we saw that we had to accrue for both quarters because we haven't accrued for that in the first quarter.
That is why you see a big number of $0.15 which is really $45 million.
So our performance at constant currency is way ahead of the plan.
And as I said 99% of our people -- I am obviously on an incentive basis on EPS because that's the right way but if we have a plant manager somewhere where we are rewarding them that has to be on constant currency because that's the only fair way of evaluating their performance.
I hope that clears the situation.
Our next question will come from David Manthey with Robert W.
Baird.
Just to follow up on that last point then we should expect that the incentive compensation all else being equal should come down by $20 million to $25 million next quarter? Well it depends on how our people are performing versus their plan but obviously in the third quarter we wouldn't have a $45 million charge sure.
It would be a lot less than that.
Okay.
And Corning made a comment something about your liquid nitrogen oxygen argon being less than expected in March I think.
And the second point is you said that your hydrogen was up year-to-year on fewer shutdowns and two things.
I'm wondering first could you address the comment on margin? Second with the hydrogen is there a catch-up that you can see at some point in the future when turnarounds accelerate? Well first of all I would like to confirm what Corning said for the month of March.
With respect to hydrogen please note that we are seeing actually an increase in the demand for hydrogen because it seems that the lower oil prices -- people are driving more and the refineries are running harder than ever before.
We do not expect a slowdown on hydrogen.
We actually expect it to be pretty robust.
John Roberts with UBS has our next question.
Two questions here.
I think Linde reported a pretty big drop in new orders for the equipment side of its business.
You obviously scored a big order in the quarter in Saudi Arabia but you mentioned some caution by customers for lower oil prices so maybe you could elaborate a little bit more on what your bidding backlog looks like now? And then secondly I think this is the first quarter we have seen the pension settlement loss.
Will that get to be a relatively large number or will that be just a small number occasionally? Very good.
I'll answer the first question and the second question I will have Scott answer that.
On the equipment side as you know we do not have a very big equipment business like some of our competitors.
Obviously the award of the Jazan project is a significant boost for our equipment business but the rest of our equipment business is not that significant; therefore we have not seen a significant drop and I don't expect anything material there but the Jazan project is going to be obviously a significant boost for our equipment business.
And then if I could I will pick up the second part of the question in terms of pension and settlement.
We would expect to see a little bit more going forward.
It wouldn't be huge; maybe it's $10 million per quarter or so.
Again the key point here is that we are focused on rightsizing the organization for going forward and we are going to -- we will point that out we'll non-GAAP it and we will keep moving and focus on the underlying business performance but I would say John it would be in that kind of a range for the next couple of quarters.
We will now hear from David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Seifi it's Ram Sivalingam sitting in for David.
A quick question for your business heads.
Corning good margin trajectory in Q2.
The outlier was industrial gases; EMEA you said margins should lift as we get through the back part of the year.
Can you give sort of any insight as to how the cadence of that is going to flow through? And then for Guillermo stellar margins obviously but as you think about the run rate going forward how are you thinking about that? Okay so let's start off then with Europe.
We have taken a large number of the actions we need to take in Europe.
There's always a little bit more of a delay in Europe between the action and when it shows up in the P&amp;L but we would expect to see a step up in both quarters for it.
From Materials Technologies I think we are doing well and we see opportunities for further improvement across our different businesses.
We have a broad portfolio so it is six businesses each one is with their own dynamics.
So we are very optimistic that we can continue to drive improvement moving all levers.
Guillermo you are referring to sequentially from Q2 into Q3 Q4? Yes if you look at sequentially the next two quarters tend to be the stronger quarters for us from a volume perspective.
So those are going to be -- they tend to be the stronger quarters that make our year.
And our last question will come from Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Just a quick one you spoke a little bit about how Q4 outlook is implied as being a significant step up.
It looks to be about a 720 annualized run rate.
Over the last seven eight years Air Products consistently delivered annual results $0.10 to $0.20 above the prior Q4 run rate.
So does that mean that your baseline for thinking about 2016 is really somewhere north of 740 750? [Technical Difficulty] products should be more nimble.
[Technical Difficulty] five six years or are there some offsets for next year that we should be thinking about? It would be difficult for me at this stage to speculate about 2016.
I'm sure you understand with all of the moving parts that there are in the world it would be difficult to do that but the way you are doing the math if nothing else changes that is one way of coming to some kind of numbers but I cannot really comment on that.
Okay.
Well I would just like to -- before we go away - say thanks again for your questions.
Thank you for being on the call and we look forward to talking to you in the near future.
Thank you very much.
And that does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to Air Products &amp; Chemicals Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded at the request of Air Products.
Please note that this presentation and the comments made on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
Beginning today's call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Dana.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Air Products' third quarter 2015 earnings results teleconference.
This is Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
I'm pleased to be joined today by Seifi Ghasemi our Chairman President and CEO; Scott Crocco our CFO; and our senior business leaders.
After our comments we will be pleased to take your questions.
Please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Our earnings release and the slides for this call are available on our website at airproducts.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statement disclosure on page 2 of the slides and at the end of today's earnings release.
Now I'm pleased to turn the call over to Seifi.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Simon and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for taking time from your busy schedule to be on our call today.
We do appreciate your interest in our company.
First let me introduce the members of our team who are on the call today.
In addition to Simon I have Mr.
Scott Crocco our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mr.
Corning Painter Air Products' Executive Vice President responsible for Industrial Gases; and Mr.
Guillermo Novo Air Products' Executive Vice President in charge of Material Technologies.
All of us will be participating in the call and in answering your questions.
I am very pleased to report that Air Products team delivered great results in the third quarter of our fiscal year 2015.
Therefore before I go any further I want to thank all of the talented dedicated and committed employees of Air Products for doing such a great job.
What we are presenting you today is the result of our 20 000 employees coming to work every day committed to serving our customers and improving every aspect of our performance.
Our people are the force behind our progress.
I certainly consider it an honor and a privilege to be part of this winning team.
Now please turn to slide number 3.
We always start our internal and external presentations with a discussion of our safety performance.
Year-to-date we improved our lost time injury rate by 21% and recordable injury rate by 17%.
As we have said before excellence in safety requires focus discipline process orientation and execution.
These same characteristics are required for excellence in business performance too.
The improvement in our safety results which is our number one priority is encouraging but our ultimate goal is zero accidents and zero incidents.
Now please turn to slide number 4.
I would like to continue to remind everybody that our goal has always been and will continue to be to become the safest and most profitable industrial gas company in the world providing excellent service to our customers.
This is not an aspirational goal.
It is not a goal that we just dream about.
It is real and it is the target of the day-to-day activities of all of our 20 000 people who are determined to get us there.
Last year we were number three.
Now we are number two and we are focused to becoming number one.
Now please turn to slide number 5 our overall management philosophy.
Some of you have seen this slide before but it is important to emphasize that we believe cash is king and the true measures of our performance is the price of our stock in the long-term.
We are very focused on proper allocation of capital.
Air Products generates a significant amount of cash.
We the management of the company fully understand that the proper and sensible allocation of that cash is a clear element of value creation for our shareholders.
And as you have seen from our actions in the last year we have moved toward a decent role organization which has had the benefit of creating accountability and reducing our costs.
Now please turn to slide number 6 our five-point strategic plan that we announced in September of 2014.
We are diligently and consistently executing this plan.
And you can certainly see the impact on our results which clearly show the improvement in profit margins.
When we announced our strategy we said that the proper execution of this plan will lead to an improvement in our margins of 600 basis points or about $600 million.
Half of that or about $300 million was to come from reducing our overhead costs enabled by the significant reorganization of the company.
We are making great progress and expect to deliver about $150 million of these benefits into our P&amp;L this year.
We expect to be at the full annual rate of $300 million of saving by quarter two of fiscal year 2016.
So you will see almost the full $300 million impact in our 2016 results.
The other half or another $300 million will be savings in distribution operations electrical usage and other field operational costs.
Currently we expect to get all of these savings in the next four years.
Now please turn to slide number 7.
Scott will take you through the details but I want to highlight a few key points.
Our EBITDA profit margin is up 430 basis points versus last year.
We are now generating free cash flow and our earning per share is up 13% versus last year despite the weak economy across the globe and $0.11 negative impact from currency translation.
In addition our return on capital employed now stands at 10.9% which is an improvement of 130 basis points versus last year.
As Scott will explain we improved our margins in all of our businesses and specifically showed significant improvement in our core Industrial Gases business.
I am encouraged by the results and the progress we have made in the last years.
Now please turn to slide number 8 where you will see our steady progress in improving our EBITDA margin.
We do appreciate that we have more work to do to become the most profitable industrial gas company in the world.
But as you can see we are on our way.
Air Products is moving forward with the full force and support of all of our 20 000 people.
I am very proud of the team and very optimistic about our future.
Before I turn it over to Scott I would like to comment on the appointment of Mr.
Casey Cogut who will be joining the board of Air Products.
Mr.
Cogut is one of the most prominent and well-known corporate lawyers in America.
He has extensive experience has been involved in some of the largest mergers and acquisition transactions in the last 30 years and has been a sought-after adviser to the board of many companies.
I am very pleased to welcome him to the Air Products board.
He brings with him a wealth of knowledge and experience that we currently do not have on our board.
We have issued a separate press release about his appointment and his background.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Scott Crocco our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to go through the details.
Then I will come back after comments from Corning Guillermo and Simon to make some closing remarks and then we will be pleased to answer your questions.
Scott? Thank you very much Seifi.
Now please turn to slide 9 for a more detailed review of our Q3 results.
Sales of $2.5 billion decreased 6% as strong underlying growth of 4% was more than offset by an unfavorable currency impact of 6% and a lower energy pass-through impact of 4%.
Volumes increased 3%.
In Gases-Asia volume growth was driven primarily by new plants in China.
Materials Technologies again saw solid growth driven by our Electronics Materials businesses and our LNG business posted another strong quarter.
Pricing was 1% higher driven by price increases in Gases-Americas and Gases-Europe and both favorable price and mix in Materials Technologies.
We delivered significant operating leverage again this quarter as EBITDA improved 9% and operating income improved 17% despite the lower sales.
Versus prior year EBITDA margin improved 430 basis points to 30.7% while our operating margin improved 380 basis points to 19.5%.
We saw improvement across all our regional Industrial Gases segments and in Materials Technologies.
Lower energy pass-through only contributed about 50 basis points.
The rest of the operating margin improvement of about 330 basis points was well balanced resulting from higher volumes higher prices and lower costs.
Higher volumes and better cost performance contributed to our sequential margin improvement.
This quarter is a new record for the highest quarterly operating margin in over 25 years.
Versus prior year net income increased 14% earnings per share grew by 13% and we continue to improve our return on capital employed which increased by 130 basis points to 10.9%.
Now please turn to slide number 10.
You've heard Seifi and I talk about our focus on cash flow and that we do not want to borrow money to pay dividends.
As you can see distributable cash flow increased again this quarter and free cash flow was up $87 million as we generated higher EBITDA and spent less on both growth capital and maintenance capital.
We are focused on optimizing maintenance capital spending the right amount at the right time and properly supporting the base business to ensure long-term success.
These improvements were partially offset by an increase in cash taxes and dividends.
From a timing perspective it is not unusual for items to move around quarter-to-quarter particularly maintenance capital and cash taxes.
Turning to slide 11 you can see an overview of this quarter's performance in terms of earnings per share.
Before I comment on our Q3 operating performance I'd like to spend a moment on the non-GAAP items that total $0.18 per share or $60 million pre-tax all related to our restructuring actions.
This includes $24 million for position eliminations and pension settlements and $36 million for asset actions primarily related to product line exits as we continue to focus on our core business.
We expect to see restructuring cost and pension settlement cost in fiscal Q4 as we continue to simplify the organization and reduce cost.
Excluding these items our Q3 continuing operations EPS of $1.65 increased $0.19 or 13% versus last year despite the significant currency headwinds.
Higher volumes increased EPS by $0.13 per share.
Pricing energy and raw materials taken together contributed $0.11.
Net cost performance was $0.11 favorable as the benefits from our cost reduction actions more than overcame a $0.10 headwind from higher incentive compensation.
As a result of our improved performance expectations for the full year we increased our incentive compensation accrual in the quarter.
In total our cost reduction actions delivered $0.18 per share of benefit.
These benefits consist of lower personnel costs as well as actions enabled by our new more disciplined organization.
These actions include reducing contractors consultants travel and other discretionary spending.
Unfavorable currency translation of $0.11  I'm sorry unfavorable currency translation was $0.11 as almost currencies weakened against the dollar.
As a reminder our currency exposure is primarily translational as the vast majority of our products are made and sold in the same currency.
Interest expense was $0.01 lower.
Taxes and non-controlling interest were both $0.02 unfavorable.
Our tax rate of about 25% increased 1%.
For the full year we still expect our tax rate to be about 24.5%.
Non-controlling interest was higher this year due to the increased value of the minority position in Indura.
And finally higher shares outstanding reduced earnings per share by $0.02.
Before I turn the call over to Corning I'd like to discuss the transaction we just completed last week.
We purchased all the outstanding shares of our largest minority partner in Indura which is one of our industrial gas businesses in Latin America.
Following this transaction we now own about 98% of Indura.
The valuation was agreed to at the time of the initial purchase in 2012 and will be a use of cash of $278 million in Q4.
Because we previously owned a majority of Indura and we're already consolidating results there will be no impact to reported sales EBITDA or operating income.
But as we now own a larger portion there will be a smaller reduction from non-controlling interest that should improve earnings per share by about $0.02 to $0.03 per year beginning in Q4.
We have used commercial paper to fund this purchase.
Now to begin the review of our business segment results I'll turn the call over to Corning.
Thanks Scott.
The Industrial Gas team continues to improve our business by executing our five-point plan.
For the three regional Industrial Gas segments in total EBITDA margins were up over 500 basis points versus last year.
And each of these three segments reported the highest margins in the 11 quarters that we have provided restated financials for.
The strong performance was delivered in an uncertain economic environment with modest manufacturing growth and profit headwinds from currency lower energy prices and higher incentive compensation.
On a constant currency basis operating income for the three segments combined was up 17%.
We delivered these results by focusing on what we control.
First reducing overhead costs by restructuring to our new regional organization.
Next under that organization uncovering issues embracing the red as we say and tackling them to unlock operational productivity with a no excuses attitude.
This has been an eventful year at Air Products.
And I would like to thank the team for grabbing the opportunity we have been given and running with it.
The results speak for themselves.
With that please turn to slide 12 for a review of our Gases-Americas results.
We again delivered strong results this quarter as significant cost improvements translated into very strong margin growth.
Sales of $898 million were down 16% versus last year as the pass-through of lower energy prices reduced sales by 13%.
The price of natural gas in the Houston Ship Channel was down over 40%.
As a reminder lower natural gas prices have a significant negative effect on reported revenues a modest negative impact on profits and a positive impact on margins.
Currency primarily the Chilean peso Brazilian real and the Canadian dollar reduced our sales by 3%.
However underlying sales were flat as higher pricing of 1% offset 1% lower volumes.
North America liquid oxygen and nitrogen volumes were up mid-single digit and we did not see any drop-off through the quarter.
HyCO volumes were down slightly but within typical customer demand fluctuation as our refinery customers continue to operate at high levels.
Helium demand remained off.
On-site oxygen demand from the steel market was lower.
And we will have a few quarters of reduced wholesale oxygen sales until that is replaced by retail signing.
We also saw lower Latin American demand particularly in Brazil.
Pricing was up 1% versus last year despite reductions in some of the formula-based contracts for liquid products.
Operating income of $207 million was up 9% and EBITDA of $328 million was up 6% as lower costs and positive pricing more than offset profit headwinds from currency higher incentive compensation and lower energy pass-through.
The lower costs were primarily driven by our restructuring actions lower planned maintenance outages versus last year and other productivity actions.
Operating margin of 23% was up 520 basis points with about 200 basis points from lower costs 100 basis points from pricing and 200 from lower energy pass-through.
EBITDA margin of 36.5% was up 740 basis points.
Sequentially profits were also up as volume price and costs were all positive.
And finally as Scott mentioned we are excited about the significant increase in our ownership of Indura to Latin American Industrial Gases business.
And we're looking forward to more fully implementing our five-point plan and driving further business improvement.
Now please turn to slide 13.
In the Europe Middle East and Africa regional business we saw the benefit of the cost restructuring actions as both EBITDA and operating margins were up over 300 basis points.
Versus last year sales of $455 million were reduced by 16% due to currency primarily the euro the British pound and the Polish zloty.
Underlying sales were up 2% with volumes up 1% and pricing up 1%.
We saw positive merchant volumes in the UK-Ireland mixed in Southern Europe and weakness in Northern and Central Europe.
We have seen some negative volume impact in our Rotterdam hydrogen pipeline in part due to transportation fuel imports from the U.S.
negatively impacting European refinery operation.
We're pleased that our team improved pricing by 1% in this weak economic environment with increases across both packaged gases and liquid/bulk.
Sequentially volumes were up 2% driven primarily by better LOX/LIN volumes.
Versus last year reported operating income was up slightly as the positive impact from our restructuring actions overcame the significant currency headwind.
On a constant currency basis operating income was up almost 20%.
Versus last quarter EBITDA was up 16% and operating income was up 23% primarily on significantly improved costs driven by the benefit from the cost reduction and productivity actions.
Please turn to slide 14.
Gases-Asia delivered another strong quarter with new plants driving both volume and profit growth.
In addition cost reduction actions helped to increase EBITDA by 12% and operating income by 20%.
Sales were up 14% to $418 million driven by volumes up 11% primarily from the new plant.
There has been some recent excitement in the Chinese markets.
I would like to remind you that the majority of our business in China is protected by secure take-or-pay terms.
And with the large plants coming on stream this proportion of our business is only growing.
For our most recent project for Zhengyuan in Hebei which came on in  stream in early Q3.
In addition to having take-or-pay terms we also have secure energy pass-through terms in our contracts because the customer supplies the energy in most cases for these large plants.
Occasionally we see swings in the energy pass-through around customer startups.
This has no impact on profit but it can impact sales.
Most importantly as I have said before customers are executing their projects operating their gasifiers taking oxygen and we are getting paid.
Overall merchant volumes were up low to mid single digits across Asia.
Our China retail LOX/LIN business was up mid single-digits while overall China LOX/LIN was down as we focus on increasing our retail business while reducing wholesale volumes.
We still see end market demand growth in China but certainly at a slower rate and with more uncertainty than a few years ago.
Sequentially volumes were up 5% with merchant volumes up significantly following the Lunar New Year holiday.
Pricing was down 2% as overcapacity in China continues to pressure liquid oxygen nitrogen and argon pricing.
Air Products has no new China liquid capacity to bring on-stream however others do.
Operating income of $101 million was up 20% operating margin was up 130 basis points and EBITDA was up 12% with new plant on-streams restructuring and productivity programs more than overcoming higher incentive compensation and pricing.
Sequential profits were up primarily due to the acceleration of the cost savings from our restructuring actions and improved merchant volumes.
We've talked a lot about driving improvement in the existing business and executing our projects in our backlog.
We're also very excited to have won a major contract to supply bulk gases to a new Giga Fab Campus in South Korea.
This is an example of the Industrial Gases team continuing Air Products' leadership in the semiconductor industry.
I will close with a few words on the global gases segment.
You'll recall that this segment includes most of our Air Separation Unit sale of equipment business as well as cost associated with the Industrial Gases business which are not region-specific.
Our overall sales were flat with last year although the business mix was different with lower small equipment sales to the oil and gas market and higher ASU sale.
This business mix difference was a profit headwind.
Also last quarter we had more favorable contract actions than this quarter.
We did see lower cost from the restructuring actions that we are taking Now I will turn the call over to Guillermo for a review of our Materials Technologies segment results.
Thank you Corning.
Please turn to slide 15.
The Materials Technologies team continues to deliver very strong results with volume growth and cost focus raising margins by over 500 basis points to the highest levels in the 11 quarters we have provided financials.
In fact our operating margins are up 900 basis points over the last 2 years.
Our team is working hard to become more independent within our products and our people continue to be excited about the potential of our strong portfolio of businesses and leading market positions.
They are delivering both safety and business results.
Segment sales of $540 million were up 3% versus prior year.
Underlying sales were up 7% on 4% volume growth and 3% positive price mix with a partial offset from currency.
Electronic sales were up 18% on a constant currency basis driven by positive volume price and mix.
Processed materials volumes were up on continued high memory demand.
As a result of a tighter supply/demand dynamics we're seeing improved pricing and have signed a number of multi-year supply agreements with our customers that will improve volume and earning stability in the future.
Advanced Materials continues to benefit from our materials being used in our customers' newest and most advanced production lines.
Delivery systems was about flat versus last year but we have begun to see the expected slowdown on a sequential basis.
Within Delivery Systems our equipment sales are holding up but we will see a decline from less installation work as specific customers have completed their fab projects.
Although overall Electronics Materials demand remained strong given recent industry communications we continue to monitor the potential impact of changing macroeconomic drivers on 2016.
For our business it is critical to look at both macro drivers as well as customer-specific dynamics.
We're often asked about the impact of lower PC demand on our business.
Over the long term we see slower PC demand more than offset with higher demand for mobile devices and the significant computing power in many non-computing devices.
There are some indications of more moderate growth for 2016 driven by weaker PC demand and softening consumer demand in the mobile space.
In the memory market there has been some reduction in DRAM pricing given higher supply but volumes have been holding up as customers bring on new capacity.
The NAND market remains strong.
Performance Materials sales were down 2% on a constant currency basis on lower volumes across our epoxy and additives businesses driven by softness in construction coatings I&amp;I and oil field.
We did see sequential volume improvement but less than the typical seasonal improvement.
As Q3 end market demand was softer than expected especially North America and China we remained cautious about the outlook for seasonal improvements through 2015.
Versus last year price is flat but margins have improved given lower raw material cost and cost reduction actions.
The lower raw material costs are having some negative impact in terms of inventory revaluation.
Given our business profile and supply footprint currency continues to be a major headwind for this business.
Over the last three quarters we've been able to capture significant volume growth and several of our businesses are now running their plants at very high utilization rates.
Last year we initiated several investments to expand capacity in both the U.S.
and in Asia.
These investments will support volume growth for our existing products as well as growth of the new product in our portfolio.
We're excited about a new Performance Materials production facility that is currently under construction in Pasadena Texas.
This investment of over $100 million will support the growth of our Performance Materials portfolio over the coming years.
We are also relocating one of our Performance Materials plants in China to our main manufacturing site in Nanjing where  which will provide an increasing capacity and operating synergies.
We've also made several smaller investments to support growth of a number of new product introductions in our Electronics portfolio.
As we look into 2016 we are considering several smaller investments to debottleneck plants add capacity and support new product growth of our Electronics Materials portfolio.
As I shared with you at the Investor Conference our capital intensity is much lower than gases and we generate a high level of free cash flow.
Our maintenance CapEx is only about 1.5% of sales.
However we do periodically need to make investments to support new product opportunities and the growth of our overall portfolio.
Let me make some comments about innovation as it is critical to the success of our Materials Technologies business.
We continue to be very excited about our innovation portfolio.
Our Electronics Materials portfolio is delivering strong growth from new products during 2015 and we continue to achieve profits of record for new nodes which will drive future growth.
In Performance Materials our non-emissive technologies continue to achieve strong market penetration across a number of applications.
And our additives business is delivering growth from new product introductions across a number of specialty applications.
We are confident in the returns we're getting from our technology investment and we are committed to maintaining the technology leadership in the market segments that we are focused on.
EBITDA of $155 million was up 27% and EBITDA margins of 28.6% was up 540 basis points versus last year.
Operating income of $132 million was up 36% and operating margins of 24.4% was up 600 basis points.
Volume leverage positive price and mix and the cost benefits of our restructuring actions overcame currency headwind and higher incentive compensation cost.
As I said another quarter of great results by the team.
We're executing on and remain focused on our key priorities; safety top line growth margin enhancement and advancing our strategic initiatives to drive further business improvement.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Simon for a quick comment on our Corporate segment.
Thanks Guillermo.
Our corporate segment consists of our LNG and helium container businesses as well as corporate costs which are not business specific.
Sales were up this quarter as we continue to see higher LNG sales more than offsetting lower helium container sales.
The LNG projects in our backlog continue with no delays or cancellations.
However we have seen a slowdown in customer decision-making on new projects that will likely impact future results.
The improved profitability this quarter was driven by the higher LNG activity.
A positive benefit from restructuring actions was offset by higher incentive compensation.
Now I will turn the call back over Seifi.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you again Simon.
Now please turn to slide number 16 for a discussion of our outlook.
During the year on all of our calls I have said that we are not going to use the weak worldwide economy nor the negative impact of currency translation as an excuse to reduce our guidance that we promised you back in October.
So I'm very pleased to announce that at this time based on what we know our guidance for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015 is $1.75 to $1.85 per share.
At midpoint this will be an increase of $0.14 or 8% over the previous year and an increase of $0.15 or 9% over our fiscal year third quarter that we are just talking about.
This takes our full year 2015 guidance up to $6.50 to $6.60 per share.
At midpoint this represents a 13% increase over our 2014 results and is $0.13 higher than the target we committed to you back in October.
This is despite the fact that we don't see any significant improvement in the worldwide economy and now expect about $0.35 negative headwind from currency translation.
As for capital expenditure in 2015 we expect about $1.7 billion the same number that we shared with you last quarter.
We do continue to enjoy a robust backlog with a high level of secure on-site pipeline projects.
Most importantly we are bringing projects on line that are contributing volume sales and profit.
At the same time we are bidding and winning new projects in the marketplace.
As a result our backlog of $3.2 billion remains unchanged from last quarter and you can see a list of our major projects in the Appendix slides.
In closing I would like to say that we are totally focused on actions that we can control to deliver on the commitments that we are making here.
We are executing on our improvement program and our plan and our team is working together to achieve our goals.
Once again I want to commend the Air Products team for outstanding job that they are doing.
They are driving significant change in the company and working hard to move Air Products forward to create value for our shareholders and customers.
At this time now we are delighted to answer any of your questions.
Thank you.
And we'll take our first question from Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
And we'll move on to P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning Seifi.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning P.J.
How are you today? Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good.
Good.
So you commented that you will realize the first $300 million of cost savings by next year and the remainder over the next four years.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes yes.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> What is the cadence of this cost savings over the next four years and how do this cost savings break down geographically? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> What  first of all the cost savings would be across the board in all of our businesses number one.
The second thing is that when I say $300 million over four years that's obviously $75 million a year.
That's kind of the variable cascade approximately.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And you said the geographic spread is that sort of based on size of business in each region? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think that  I mean the area that we can see the biggest amount of improvement is obviously our Latin America operations but they do have room to improve our results in all of the sectors.
I would like Corning to make some more comments on this.
Yeah.
Good morning.
So when we allocated out these targets across the regions we clearly looked at the nature of the business the nature of the spend the assets in each area.
So it's not like a flat percentage for everyone.
It's appropriate for each business opportunity.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
And my second question is on Energy-from-Waste.
How close are you to getting these plants running and what's your confidence level in the technology? And you talked about divesting these plants in the future.
Are you in conversations with your partner there? Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> As far as the construction of the first unit we are almost done with the construction and we are in the startup.
As far as the confidence in the technology we'll find out.
This is one of a kind first time anybody has built a plant of this size and we will find out what the technology does whether it works or it doesn't work.
We are in the middle of doing that and I don't really have any significant update for you.
As far as being in conversation with anybody no we are not in any conversation until we get these plants operating.
Because if they are not going to operate there is no conversation to be had.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you P.J.
Well go next to Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Congratulations on a great quarter guys.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you very much Duffy.
Appreciate that.
Inc.</span></strong> I wanted to talk through  your volume seemed to be running better than industry so far.
How much of those volumes were new plants coming on line and how much is just you guys doing a better job of selling product in already existing markets? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I would like Corning to answer that but we are not after gaining market share.
We are after making sure that we serve our current customers and most of the increase in volumes are from new plants.
But I'll let Corning to comment because most of this is in our Industrial Gases business.
Yeah.
So I think if you looked at this regional slice that we have you could see a large proportion of this is in Asia.
And what you're seeing in Asia is the new plants coming on stream pretty much in total okay? And that's really a large part of the picture here.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And you would expect that because that is where we have made significant investments and so we are now getting the benefit of that.
Inc.</span></strong> Fair enough.
And then just to go back to the cost cuts.
So the two buckets of $300 million one you said you'll be at $150 million run rate on the first run by the end of this year the whole $300 million on a run rate by Q2 of next year then the second $300 million you talked about getting in four years.
Does that four years include this year just completed or that four-year clock starts ticking as we get into 2016? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It starts as of  when we get into fiscal year 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We are working on that but I mean that would be the approximate date.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you guys.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks Duffy.
We'll go next is John McNulty with Credit Suisse.
Mr.
McNulty please check your mute button.
Hearing no response we'll move on to Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
Thank you.
Seifi just wanted to know what turned out better in the quarter than you originally expected? Because I know your original guidance range was $1.58 to $1.60.
So did some of the cost savings occur earlier than expected or was organic growth better in some markets than you thought it might be? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> There were two things.
Number one when we gave our guidance at the end of last quarter Don as you know we have seen really weak month of March and April.
And we were very concerned about how the economy will develop especially in the U.S.
Things have turned out better in the U.S.
than we thought.
The second thing is that our plants in China came on stream sooner than we thought.
So those were the two main reasons.
The cost savings are in line with what we expected because we have a very detailed program on that.
But the  it was  I mean we were cautious because of the economy and the plants in China and those two turned out to be better than we expected.
And then on slide 10 I noticed that your maintenance and growth CapEx was down year-over-year and Scott talked about the focus on optimizing maintenance capital.
So is the  you've talked in the past the $250 million to $300 million run rate on maintenance capital.
Is the new rates lower given your comments on how you're trying to optimize that level? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No no no no.
Please be careful.
We are not trying to optimize maintenance.
We are trying to  we will maintain and we are maintaining our facilities.
And the number that you are quoting about $300 million in maintenance is absolutely correct.
The issue is that with maintenance as you know it's a lumpy thing depending on when customers shut down plants.
So it is going to go up and down quarter-by-quarter.
But order of magnitude $250 million to $300 million is the maintenance cost for Air Products.
Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Thanks Don.
We'll go next to David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning Seifi.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
How are you? Inc.</span></strong> Good.
Thank you.
Seifi Material Technologies excellent results this quarter.
Has this quarter and the last quarter changed your view at all as to whether this belongs in the portfolio longer term? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
We have always said that we want to focus on Industrial Gases.
So that has been our strategy and it will continue to be our strategy.
I'm very pleased with the job that Guillermo and his people are doing but we still consider that business at the end of the day to be non-core.
Inc.</span></strong> And do you have a timeframe for realizing that as being non-core? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> David don't  I mean you know that I can't give you anything like that because we are looking at all of our options as you know.
So...
Inc.</span></strong> Understood.
Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks.
We'll take our next question from Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Thanks very much and good morning everyone.
Just looking at slide 20 your backlog I'm counting six new plants starting up in fiscal year 2016.
Do you have any update on sort of the time or the cadence of those through the years or  through the year or how we should be thinking about the earnings impact for 2016? I'd like Corning to comment on it but as long  as far as I know all of them are supposed to come on stream per plant.
Corning? Yeah.
Maybe just a little recognition for the team.
So these are large plants.
It's been a big effort to get them to completion and get them started up.
We talked about we've had one come on in this quarter very smoothly.
We expect these plants to come on next year likewise and kind of what you see in that Appendix that reflects our latest thinking on it.
I guess I was just kind of looking for a little bit more detail on are some of them first half are some of them second half just in terms of as we look at our models.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think it's  when you're looking at your models I think it would be wise to spread it evenly across the year.
Okay.
Thanks.
And just a follow-up on the  your cash flow statement.
There was a big swing for the year-to-date in payables and accrued liabilities.
Is that just a function of your reduced head count expense or what's causing that? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Scott will answer that.
Yeah.
Thanks Vincent for that question.
So biggest swing in working capital is being driven by the incentive compensation.
So we call that  that's an expense that is noncash at this point in time.
Obviously when we get to the first quarter of FY 2016 we'll have a payout but that's a big driver in terms of the improvement in working capital for the quarter.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks very much.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
We'll go next to Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
This is Ryan Berney on for Bob.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi.
How are you? Hey.
Good.
Thanks.
So just had a quick question.
Obviously in this quarter you saw a nice kind of cash flow expansion at least on a year-over-year basis.
And as your CapEx starts to wind down your earnings wind up.
And I'm wondering as we look out to 2016 we should probably see some more earnings growth.
And assuming the CapEx doesn't rise with it can you give us an update on what your plans are what your kind of priorities are for the uses of that cash? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think we  that's an excellent question.
I just kind of  it will take a minute to answer that completely.
Our  we have always said that we think we will create the greatest amount of value for our shareholders if we take the cash that we generate and invest it in good projects in organic growth.
So that is our number one priority.
And the good news is that there a lot of those projects.
So whatever cash we generate I think we will have a good use for it to promote organic growth.
If for some reason because of all bad economic conditions and so on there are no such opportunities then the next best use of cash is for accretive good acquisitions.
Then if there are no such thing as that then the third thing we think is to return it to shareholders in form of dividend or share buyback depending on where the share price is.
So that would be our priority as we generate cash.
But the main thing is our issue has been we've been generating cash.
Now that we are generating cash we have those options.
There is one other thing that I'll mention  I would like to mention and we have said this before we are very focused on making sure that we maintain our A rating.
So  we always need to make sure that we have enough cash to maintain the A rating that we have.
We don't want to lose that.
Therefore that means we are not going to go on do what I don't think makes sense is borrow many and buy shares in order to prop up the share price.
Okay? Understood.
Thanks.
That's really helpful.
And if you can could you also provide  as you're looking out for the best growth projects as you're looking to build your pipeline is there a specific region or a specific end market that is particularly attractive to you based on what you're seeing right now? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Obviously right now there is significant amount of opportunities in the U.S.
Gulf Coast because of all of the chemical projects that are under consideration.
There are significant opportunities around the world for hydrogen.
We are the leader in hydrogen and as a result of that that creates a lot of opportunities for us.
So the opportunities are worldwide but obviously and proportionally there are more opportunities in the U.S.
And we are very well positioned in the U.S.
and we think that we will get our fair share of the market.
Great.
Thank you very much.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
We'll go next to David Manthey with Robert W.
Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning Seifi.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> First off wondering about your decision to increase the ownership position in Indura.
I think it was a year ago you had mentioned that the purchase price assumptions were incorrect in some way.
And I'm wondering based on the predetermined price can you talk about how you got comfortable with the valuation parameters this time around and just the strategic intent of increasing your ownership there? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'm very happy that you asked the question.
We did not decide to buy the shares.
I wouldn't have bought the shares.
The  as part of the original agreement the sellers had a put option on Air Products.
And obviously it was a good price though they put it to us.
We had no choice.
If we had the choice we wouldn't have bought it at the price.
We would have liked to  but it was a put option so they put it to us they have to live by the contract that was negotiated at the time the purchase price was done.
So the good news is that now at least we are in full control and we can do what we need in improving that business.
But it wasn't as if we sat down and decided that gee this is a great thing to do.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And second your new board member is experienced seems very deep in M&amp;A.
Is there any information content there as it relates to your pace of mergers acquisitions divestitures going forward or is that just like you said filling a gap that you might have had? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It is just filling a gap.
I think it's the second thing that you said.
We just look at the board and a board of any company is supposed to be a collection of people with different skills and this was an area where we didn't have the skill and I think it was  we are very fortunate that Mr.
Cogut has agreed to serve on our board.
He's  we all have a great deal of respect for him.
He is very well-known and I think he will be a very good addition to our board.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And we'll go next to John Roberts with UBS.
Thank you.
Back to the Indura deal the original deal was $884 million for 67% and now you're paying $278 million for 30.5%.
So if you just scaled on the ownership it's about a 30% lower price for the same percent of ownership.
Is Indura down more than 30%? Is that your comment there about you wouldn't have bought it? It seems like a materially lower price for this similar amount of ownership.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's just pure luck because it's currency because the deal was in Chilean pesos.
Okay.
Got it.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And as a result the value in terms of dollars has gone down.
And then Corning on the volumes in China the remaining big plants come up in phases.
I assume once you're fully ramped you'll be more subject to the macros there.
How much longer before you're fully ramped in China? We have more than four quarters left of ramping to go on there or does it extend even beyond that? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well  Corning will answer that? Go ahead.
Yeah.
So I think to some degree the answer to your question is in that table.
So you can look at when the plants come on.
As those come on each one of them represents a step change from that.
There's the potential that we would identify additional attractive investments between now and then but I think that's sort of your roadmap.
Okay.
The ones that come up in phases are they relatively linear? See you've got some asterisks in that table.
Yeah.
So I think you would expect as Seifi said earlier that you're just going to see this spread out over the course of the next fiscal year.
Okay.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Hi.
This is Dan Rizzo on Laurence.
Just one quick question on Materials Technologies.
You said in Performance Materials you're seeing some softness in construction and in oilfield.
Well oilfield is obviously known.
I was just wondering where you're seeing the weakness in construction.
Is there is a specific region or just a specific area? Just a little color on that.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Guillermo will answer that.
Yeah.
A lot of our business  we're more on the industrial and protective coatings and floorings.
So it's more of the non-residential construction and we're seeing most of that in the U.S.
some softness versus our expectations and in Asia mostly around China.
All right.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Jim Sheehan with SunTrust.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for taking my question and congratulations again on an excellent quarter Seifi.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you very much.
You're very kind.
Thanks.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
On the backlog $3.2 billion a pretty solid figure here.
I'm just wondering if you could give your outlook for the second half of the calendar year.
Would you expect that to move up or down? And how would you characterize the bidding activity there? Is it getting more competitive in your view? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't want to comment on the competitiveness because that's not appropriate.
But in terms of the backlog changing I think some projects will come on stream they go off backlog and hopefully we'll win some projects and we will add it.
So I would not see a material change.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then on the Americas your pricing was up.
I'm just wondering if you could break that out a little bit between Latin America and the U.S.
Was pricing up more in Brazil or could you comment specifically on how your pricing is in the U.S.? Right.
Excellent question.
So you can imagine in the high-inflation regions it is much easier to drive pricing and really essential to drive pricing.
So in places like Brazil right now prices are up quite significantly.
In the U.S.
we have a situation where we have a number of contracts that are under a formula.
And as those input numbers input costs go down that becomes a net drag on pricing.
Of course our input cost that we actually experience come down at the same time.
So it's not really compressing margin as you might think about pricing.
That's just reflecting the natural ebb and flow of an index.
So definitely in our space there's certainly a higher percentage increase in Latin America.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you We'll go next to Mike Harrison with Global Hunter Securities.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Mike.
Corning I was wondering if you could walk through what your LOX/LIN utilization look like by region.
And in the case of any improvement is that improvement just volume related or are there any capacity reductions going on? So for the most part our position right now is let's say we're in the 70%s on a global basis.
So a little bit higher in the U.S.
and Canada a little bit lower in Latin America.
The movement there or let's say the trend line going up is really just going with underlying volumes at this point.
Not really significant capacity coming out of the system at this point.
And I would say in general if you look at it so LOX/LIN/LAR up in North America up a bit in Europe as well.
I think it reflects just an overall thing that's happening here in Air Products.
I mean this is a company that's going through a huge transformation.
Think about where we were a year ago.
Think about that graph we saw earlier about our EBITDA trend.
I mean we've been through a big change.
And I think it reflects overall that people are energized by what's happening and our teams are out there and they're pushing the sales they're interacting with our customers and I think we've got some momentum from that.
And that's going to slowly impact our overall loading.
But it's hard to beat of course the global economic environment.
All right.
And then a question on the hydrogen business.
You've talked in the past about the earnings impact of lower natural gas prices in hydrogen.
Have you taken any steps over the last year or two years to modify some of your contracts so that you're a little bit more insulated from the earnings impact of lower natural gas prices or is it still the case that you keep whatever efficiencies you can generate and that means fewer dollars at lower natural gas prices? Yeah.
As you can imagine these are long-term contracts tied to big assets.
And it's not super easy to go ahead and modify them.
As well as if you think about what we're really interested in at the end of the day is earnings is profit okay? And so there's not a lot to be gained in heavily trying to reengineer that in terms of your face time with the customer.
That might change a ratio for us but it's not going to really change EPS for us let's say that.
So we're very focused on the things that most drive value for ourselves and for our shareholders and really not so much an effort trying to reengineer or re-jig the current contracts.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Mike I think that during the call I think Scott mentioned that the effect of the lower prices on profitability was minimal.
Right.
Thank you very much.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It affects our sales quite a bit but the effect on profitability was not that huge.
Okay.
Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you very much Mike.
One more question.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> One more question please.
Okay.
We'll take our final question from Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Yes.
Good morning and thanks for taking my question.
With respect to your  the new plant that comes that's in the backlog for Korea would you help us understand what it was that allowed you to get this plant? And then if you would maybe qualitatively or quantitatively help us understand the type of returns you're looking at that plant versus returns you had in the past.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll answer the return question.
You know that we are not going to take any project less than 10% return.
So the return was higher than that.
But in terms of the  we are under constraints from our customer about how much we can talk about it but I'd like Corning to make some comments.
Yeah.
So this is a reflection of having a product line approach.
We've  we know the electronics industry the semiconductor industry very well.
We built a standard set of plants that are geared to deriving or delivering the nitrogen adjust the pressures and purities these guys need and I think it just reflects the ability to take that (01:03:32) and replicate it.
These are plants that we've built before in other locations and in some cases for those very same customer and we'll now be doing it for them in this location.
I think it's the power of  when we talk about focusing on the core this is an example of that.
Focusing on an area of strength and continuing to grow from strength to strength.
Understood.
Understood.
Thank you.
And then just a follow-up with respect to your cost reductions and efficiency programs.
Obviously you put all these together when the economy maybe was not so dire or the outlook wasn't so dire and things have slowed down in other parts of the world.
So once you're finished with the $600 million or so reduction in efficiency gains do you expect there to be other opportunities given where the economy is now? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We are committed to continuous improvement.
So once we get this extended in the next four years then we will start thinking about how we can make our operations even better.
So we are totally committed to that.
Okay? Thank you very much.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay.
At this time I would like to take a second once more and thank everybody on the call.
We appreciate your interest.
And we look forward to talking to you in three months.
Have a great day.
Thank you again.
Again that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to Air Products and Chemicals Fourth Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded at the request of Air Products.
Please note that this presentation and the comments made on behalf of Air Products are subject to copyright by Air Products and all rights are reserved.
Beginning today's call is Mr.
Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Sandra.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Air Products fourth quarter 2015 earnings results teleconference.
This is Simon Moore Director of Investor Relations.
I'm pleased to be joined today by Seifi Ghasemi our Chairman President and CEO; Scott Crocco our CFO; and our senior business leaders.
After our comments we will be pleased to take your questions.
Please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Our earnings release and the slides for this call are available on our website at airproducts.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statement disclosure on page 2 of the slides and at the end of today's earnings release.
Now I'm pleased to turn the call over to Seifi.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Simon and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for taking time from your busy schedule to be on our call today.
We do appreciate your interest in our company.
First let me introduce the members of our team who are on the call today.
In addition to Simon I have Mr.
Scott Crocco our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mr.
Corning Painter Air Products Executive Vice President responsible for Industrial Gases; and Mr.
Guillermo Novo Air Products Executive Vice President in charge of Materials Technologies.
All of us will be participating in the call and in answering your questions.
A year ago we promised our investors we would deliver earnings of $6.30 to $6.55 per share in fiscal year 2015.
I am very proud to announce that despite weaker than forecasted economic activity and a headwind of more than $0.40 per share due to currency translation the people of Air Products delivered earning per share of $6.57 which is higher than the top end of our forecast and a 14% improvement versus last year.
We owe this excellent performance to the tireless and focused efforts of Air Products 20 000 talented committed and motivated employees.
I want to thank the people of Air Products for coming together to prove that they have the determination and the capability to deliver outstanding results and move our company forward to be best industrial gas company in the world.
Now please turn to slide number 3.
We always start our internal and external presentations with a discussion of our safety performance.
We are making progress and as you will note our lost time injury rate improved by 17% and our recordable injury rate was 16% better than last year.
We believe that excellence in safety performance requires focus discipline process orientation and execution.
These are the same characteristics that drive excellence in business performance.
The improvement in our safety results is encouraging but our ultimate goal remains zero accidents and zero incidents.
Now please turn to slide number 4.
Our goal for the company has not changed.
We are determined to become the safest and most profitable industrial gas company in the world providing excellent service to our customers.
We have made great progress in the past year by improving our profit margins by 350 basis points.
And we are all committed to work hard to achieve our stated goal.
Now please turn to slide number 5 our overall management philosophy.
Again no change here.
But I would like to reiterate our fundamental management philosophy in our approach to running Air Products.
We believe strongly that cash generation is what drives long-term value.
We believe that what counts in the long term is the increase in per share value of our stock not the size of our company or our growth rate.
In addition Air Products generates a significant amount of cash and the effective deployment of that cash is one of my most responsibilities as the CEO of the company.
Finally a decentralized organization releases entrepreneurial energy and keeps costs down.
Now please turn to slide number 6.
A year ago we announced the five-point strategic plan to transform Air Products.
I would like to take a few minutes and let you know where we are in the implementation of this plan.
The first point of the plan was to get Air Products focused on its core business our core competency that is Industrial Gases.
We have done this and recently announced that we will spin off our Materials Technologies business tax-free to our U.S.
shareholders and set it up as a separate stand-alone public company.
Materials Technologies is a great business and our people have significantly improved the performance of this business in the last year.
We believe that Materials Technologies as specialty material business will be able to grow and expand and be more profitable as a separate company since its drivers for growth capital requirement and optimal organizational structure is different from that of our core Industrial Gases business.
So with the separation of Materials Technologies by September of 2016 we will be done with the first point of our plan.
The second point of our plan was to recognize that our Industrial Gases business is a local business.
We do have a global presence but we should run the business in a decentralized manner focused on specific geographies.
Therefore we embarked on the largest organizational restructuring that Air Products has ever undertaken in its 75-year history.
We have created over 40 profit centers and a focused decentralized structure and eliminated the global organizational superstructure that that did not add much value.
I am pleased to say that we are done.
The new organization structure is in place.
The key people are in the proper jobs and the organization is functioning and delivering results as you can see.
The third point of our plan was to change the culture so that we can get everyone focused on safety simplifying of our work processes execution with speed and creating the organizational self-confidence that Air Products has the people and the portfolio to be the best in the industry.
As you all know changing the culture in a large company is not an easy task.
We have and are making progress but we are not there.
This is an area that we will continuously focus on until we have all of our 20 000 people committed to acting as if they are the CEO of the company and every day each one of them comes to work and looks for ways to improve our business our business processes and take actions that are necessary to move us forward with an eye to our safety simplicity speed and self-confidence so that we can achieve our goal of being the most profitable industrial gas company in the world.
The fourth point of our plan was the responsible use of cash and controlling our cost.
In this area we have made excellent progress.
We have a very robust and agile process for reviewing every capital investment of more than $3 million at the corporate level and we have established a minimum hurdle rate of 10% internal rate of return for all new projects.
In the area of cost savings we have reduced our overhead costs by $300 million a year already and have a detailed plan to achieve an additional $300 million of operational cost savings in the next four years.
Improving productivity and efficiency is a necessary and never-ending process that we are committed to continue as we move forward so then we can stay at the leading edge of our industry.
The fifth point of our plan was to properly align our incentive reward program.
We have totally restructured and changed this plan from what it was before.
We now have over 40 profit and loss centers.
Their performance is based on EBITDA results and people are rewarded for what they achieve in their specific business unit.
This has created differentiation.
And for example in 2015 we have units that will get no incentive award to units that will get 200% of their targeted awards.
And our long-term incentive plan is now very focused on total shareholder return.
In summary we have done what we said we would do.
I'm thankful to all of the people of Air Products not only for implementing all of the major changes but at the same time staying focused and still delivering an excellent performance for the year while winning new projects.
Now please turn to slide number 7 our annual results.
Scott will take you through the details later but I want to point out that in 2015 we improved our margins by 360 basis points and we delivered positive free cash flow despite a weak worldwide economy and a $0.40 negative impact from currency exchange translation.
And if you turn to slide number 8 now which is my favorite slide you will see our progress in the last seven quarters where we have improved our margins by more than 700 basis points.
We are determined to continue to improve our margins until we become the best in the industry.
In slide number 9 we show you our distributed cash flow of more than $10 a share.
We believe this measure more than earnings per share is the true measure of the wealth we are creating for our shareholders.
Up to now I've been focused on mentioning our efforts on improving our cost structure and delivering the financial targets.
But at the same time we have been very focused on winning projects to ensure future growth.
Please turn to slide number 10.
As I mentioned earlier we announced our intention to spin off Materials Technologies.
Also in 2015 we were successful in bringing onstream some of our key large projects in China such as PCEC ZY [Zhengyuan] and YK [Yankuang] with over 20 000 per day of additional oxygen capacity onstream.
Our customers are running their facilities.
They are using the oxygen we produce.
And most importantly we are getting paid.
We were successful and honored to have Saudi Aramco the world's largest oil company award us the right to build the world's largest industrial gas complex with an investment of more than $2 billion.
Once built this facility will supply almost 75 000 tons per day of oxygen and nitrogen to Aramco based on a long-term 20-year supply contract.
We have also won a significant contract to build a world scale facility for a major semiconductor company in South Korea and an oxygen supply contract for Big River Steel in the United States.
And as we announced on Monday we are building a world-class hydrogen plant with an investment of around $400 million to supply hydrogen and CO to our pipeline system in Texas.
It's also important to note that we are now celebrating 75th anniversary of being in the business of serving our customers and we look forward to serving them the distinction for the next 75 years.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Scott Crocco our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to go through the details of the year and discuss our very strong quarterly results.
Then I will come back after comments from Corning Guillermo and Simon to make some closing remarks.
And then we will be delighted to answer your questions.
Scott? Thank you very much Seifi.
I would like to make a few additional comments on our fiscal 2015 results.
Please turn to slide 11.
For the year underlying sales growth increased by 3% with 2% coming from higher volumes driven by Gases-Asia new plant onstreams and Materials Technologies.
And 1% coming from higher pricing in Gases-Americas and Materials Technologies.
Operating margin was up 310 basis points to 19% and EBITDA margin was up 360 basis points to 30.1%.
This reflects balanced volume pricing and cost performance.
Only 40 basis points of the operating margin increase came from lower energy pass-through.
Now please turn to slide 12 for some full-year EPS comments.
Year-on-year EPS growth of 14% was fairly well distributed across higher volumes improved pricing and lower costs.
Combined these added about $1.20 per share to our FY 2015 results versus prior year.
Key drivers included volume growth in Gases-Asia Materials Technologies and LNG price mix improvement in Gases-Americas and Materials Technologies and better cost performance across all of our segments as our cost actions more than offset incentive comp and inflation headwinds.
This was more than enough to offset unfavorable currency and foreign exchange headwinds of about $0.40.
Interest expense was $0.08 lower primarily due to higher capitalized interest.
And this more than offset the $0.06 impact of higher shares outstanding.
Now please turn to slide 13 for a more detailed review of our Q4 results.
Sales of $2.4 billion decreased 9% versus last year on unfavorable currency of 7% and a lower energy pass-through impact of 3%.
Volumes were flat as Gases-Asia growth continued and our LNG business posted another solid quarter while Materials Technologies and Gases-Americas volumes were down.
Corning and Guillermo will comment more on this later.
Pricing was 1% higher for the fourth consecutive quarter and again driven by price increases in Gases-Americas and Gases-Europe and both price increases and mix in Materials Technologies.
We delivered significant operating leverage again this quarter as EBITDA improved by 2% and operating income improved by 9% despite the lower sales.
EBITDA margin improved 350 basis points to 32.1% while our operating margin improved 340 basis points to 21%.
We saw margin improvements across all of our segments.
Lower energy pass-through only contributed about 40 basis points to the operating margin improvement.
The rest of the operating margin improvement of about 300 basis points resulted primarily from higher prices and lower costs.
Better cost performance including lower incentive comp also contributed to our sequential margin improvement.
We continue to improve our performance and this quarter is another new record for the highest quarterly operating margin in over 25 years.
Versus prior year net income increased 11% and earnings per share grew 10% and we continued to improve our return on capital employed which increased 140 basis points to 12.4% this quarter.
Now please turn to slide 14.
You've heard Seifi and I talk about our focus on cash flow and that we do not want to borrow money to pay dividends.
As you can see distributable cash flow decreased this quarter due to the timing of cash tax payments.
However free cash flow was positive $40 million which is the strongest quarter this year.
We remain focused on spending the right amount at the right time and properly supporting the base business to ensure long-term success.
From a timing perspective it is not unusual for items to move around quarter-to-quarter particularly maintenance capital and cash taxes.
Turning to slide 15 you can see an overview of this quarter's performance in terms of earnings per share.
Before I comment on our Q4 operating performance I'd like to spend a moment on the non-GAAP items that totaled $0.24 per share or $59 million pre-tax.
This includes $49 million for position eliminations and pension settlements and $20 million for asset actions primarily related to a plant shutdown.
Included in the other income and expense P&amp;L line is a $34 million gain on land sales.
This is an example of our very strong focus on optimizing all of our assets including property that was not providing value for Air Products.
We also saw Materials Technologies separation costs of $7.5 million for legal and advisory fees.
And finally we recorded a loss on early debt retirement of $17 million as we redeemed some high-interest rate bonds in Chile.
We expect to see restructuring and pension settlement costs continue through next year.
We have essentially completed the actions associated with our first $300 million of overhead reductions.
Further actions will be part of the second $300 million of operational improvements.
Further details on all non-GAAP items can be found in an appendix slide and in the footnotes to our earnings release.
Excluding these items our Q4 continuing operations EPS of $1.82 increased $0.16 per share or 10% versus last year despite the significant currency headwinds.
Volumes increased EPS by $0.02 per share.
Pricing energy and raw materials taken together contributed $0.12.
Net cost performance was $0.16 favorable as higher incentive compensation partially offset the $0.23 benefit from our cost reduction actions.
These cost reduction benefits consist of lower personnel costs as well as actions enabled by our new more disciplined organization including reducing contractors consultants travel and other discretionary spending.
Unfavorable currency in FX was $0.16 as almost all currencies weakened against the dollar.
As a reminder for gases our currency exposure is primarily translation as the vast majority of our products are made and sold in the same currency.
Interest expense was $0.02 lower due to higher capitalized interest and the remaining items are small and net to zero.
As we mentioned on the Q3 call we completed the buy-up of the remaining shares of the Indura business in Chile during the fourth quarter.
Because we previously owned a majority if Indura and were already consolidating results there was no impact to our reported sales EBITDA or operating income.
This purchase is reflected in the financing activity section of our cash flow statement and the redeemable non-controlling interest that was shown on our balance sheet is now eliminated.
Now to begin the review of our business segment results I'll turn the call over to Corning.
Thanks Scott.
Please turn to slide 16.
First I would like to thank the entire Industrial Gases team for delivering a very strong FY 2015.
Implementing the five-point plan was our key focus this year.
We decentralized the organization to create greater local authority and accountability and more of an entrepreneurial spirit.
This allowed us to significantly reduce our cost structure.
Our new incentive system which energizes and rewards local teams for their EBITDA performance focuses us on cash flow and reinforces the cultural changes we are driving.
We have more to do in terms of safety speed simplicity and self-confidence but we are excited to be on our way.
The hard work of our people combined with our streamlined and faster organization produced tremendous results in every region.
For the full fiscal 2015 Americas' EBITDA margin was up 450 basis points despite modest economic growth.
EMEA's EBITDA margin was up 180 basis points despite weak economic growth.
And Asia's EBITDA margin was 210 basis points despite the merchant overcapacity and slowing economy in China.
Our people delivered these results by staying focused on what we control namely working safely and driving costs out with the new and simpler organization and we stay focused on customers.
As Seifi has mentioned we are very excited to be awarded a number of key projects this year that will support profitable growth into the future.
We had a pair of announcements in the last two weeks on our U.S.
Gulf Coast pipeline system.
First is a new agreement to supply 44 million standard cubic feet a day of hydrogen from our pipeline system to Pallas for ammonia production in Pasadena Texas.
Pallas will enjoy the speed simplicity and reliability that comes from the world's largest hydrogen pipeline network.
Second is a new world-class steam methane reformer we will build in Baytown Texas.
This plant will provide 125 million standard cubic feet a day of hydrogen to support the growth on our U.S.
Gulf Coast system and it will provide additional reliable supply of carbon monoxide to our petrochemical customers.
Great examples of Air Products wining in the marketplace while creating value for shareholders.
The team is excited about the opportunity to further improve the business.
Having completed our reorganization we are very focused on operational productivity to drive additional P&amp;L improvement regardless of the economic environment.
With that please turn to slide 17 for a review of our Gases-Americas which includes Latin America fourth quarter results.
Despite currency headwinds and weaker volumes our continued focus on cost expanded our margins.
Sales of $902 million were down 13% versus last year as the pass-through of lower energy prices reduced sales by 9% and currency reduced sales by 4%.
Underlying sales were flat as higher pricing offset lower volumes.
We continue to see lower demand in Latin America helium and the oilfield services market.
We also saw a further weakening of steel demand that impacts our oxygen sales and argon co-production.
And as I mentioned last quarter wholesale pipeline oxygen sales are down and we will replace that volume with retail business.
HyCO volumes were essentially flat as refiners continue to run hard.
Pricing was up 2% with continued strength in helium and we worked hard to cover inflationary and power cost increases in Latin America Operating income of $209 million was down 5% and EBITDA of $330 million was down 3% as profit headwinds from currency higher incentive compensation and lower energy pass-through more than offset the benefits of our restructuring actions and lower maintenance costs.
Record operating margin was up 190 basis points with about three-quarters of that coming from lower energy pass-through.
Record EBITDA margin was up about 370 basis points.
As I said the team is excited about driving further business improvement in 2016 despite an uncertain economic environment and more scheduled maintenance outages.
Now please turn to slide 18.
For the Europe Middle East and Africa regional business we saw the benefit of our cost restructuring actions as both EBITDA and operating margin set new records both up about 200 basis points.
Versus last year sales of $460 million were reduced 14% due to currency primarily the euro and the British pound.
Underlying sales were up 2% with volumes up 1% and pricing up 1%.
Our liquid bulk volumes were positive while we continue to see volume weakness in the packaged gases business in part due to weakness in the offshore oil and gas market.
And as I said last quarter we continue to see some negative volume impacts on our Rotterdam hydrogen pipeline in part due to transportation fuel imports from the U.S.
negatively impacting European refinery operations and in part due to the closure of a hydrogen plant there.
We are pleased to see another quarter of positive pricing.
Operating margin was up 190 basis points while operating income was down 2% as the positive contribution from pricing and our cost reduction actions was more than offset by the currency impact and higher incentive compensation.
EBITDA margin was up 220 basis points while EBITDA was down 5%.
On a constant currency basis operating income was up 11%.
We will continue to prove the business in 2016 but expect seasonally weak volumes and planned maintenance outages to impact Q1.
Please turn to slide 19.
Gases-Asia delivered another strong quarter with new plants driving both volume and profit growth.
Versus last year sales were up 7% to $428 million with volumes up 15% primarily from the new plants partially offset by a negative 7% impact from currency primarily in Korea Taiwan and China.
Overall merchant volumes were up mid-single digits across Asia.
Our China retail LOX/LIN business was up low-mid-single digits while overall China LOX/LIN was down as we focused on increasing our retail business while reducing wholesale volume.
We still see end market demand growth in China but excess capacity continues to impact merchant pricing.
As I mentioned last quarter the majority of our plants in China are protected by secure take-or-pay terms.
And with the large on-site plants coming onstream this proportion of our business is only growing.
The first phases of the largest oxygen on-site complex Air Products has ever built started up in Yulin.
As our customer brings their gasifiers fully online we will bring on additional phases through the first half of FY 2016.
As I also mentioned last quarter occasionally we will see swings in the energy pass-through around customer startups.
This has no impact on profit but it can impact sales and margins.
Once again most importantly customers are executing their projects operating their gasifiers taking oxygen and we are getting paid.
Our reported profitability was very strong with operating income up 40% and operating margin up 620 basis points while EBITDA was up 17% and EBITDA margin was up 330 basis points.
Our underlying business remains strong and we are seeing the benefits of the new projects coming onstream and our cost reduction actions.
In addition this quarter's comparison benefited from some one-time cost items last year and a positive catch-up payments from on-site customers this quarter.
As we look to 2016 the Asia team is focused on driving business improvement and continuing to start up the large projects in our backlog.
We would expect Q1 FY 2016 to be closer to Q1 FY 2015 due to some of the one-time benefits I mentioned.
I'll close with a few words about the Global gases segment.
You'll recall that this segment includes most of our Air Separation Unit sale of equipment business as well as costs associated with the Industrial Gas business which are not regional specific.
Our overall sales were flat with last year although the business mix was different with lower small equipment sales and higher ASU sales.
This significant profit improvement versus last year was driven by our cost reduction actions and positive project performance and closeouts.
Now I will turn the call over to Guillermo for a review of our Materials Technologies segment results.
Thank you Corning.
On September 16 Air Products announced the intention to separate our Materials Technologies business through a tax-free spinoff to our U.S.
shareholders.
This strategic decision will allow both Materials Technologies and Air Products Industrial Gases to leverage our respective strengths and will enable better business performance for both companies over the long term.
The Materials Technologies team is very excited about the tremendous opportunity to remain focused on executing our strategy while driving safety business improvement and taking care of our customers.
At the same time a number of us are working on the key steps required to enable the spin-off.
We're making good progress and continue to expect to complete the transaction before September 2016.
Prior to the transaction I look forward to the opportunity to spend time with you to share more details on our plans for the future success of this business.
Please turn to slide 20.
In Q4 segment sales of $490 million were down 13% versus prior year including a negative 4% impact from currency.
Underlying sales were down 9% on 11% lower volumes and 2% higher prices.
As I indicated on the last call we have begun seeing some of the softening in the macro demand across our portfolio especially in Asia and particularly in Delivery Systems.
Let me share with you the key drivers for Q4 results.
For the Electronics segment the 9% underlying sales reduction is all due to the Delivery Systems business.
As we discussed in the past this business consists of both equipment sales and turnkey installation work.
We completed several major turnkey projects last year which did not repeat.
These projects had a big impact on 2014 Q4 and 2015 Q1.
We also saw the anticipated impact of the CapEx spending softening in the semiconductor industry this quarter.
Excluding Delivery Systems the underlying sales of Electronics was up 15% relative to prior year.
Advanced Materials continues to show strength in innovation-driven growth as well as growth from our materials targeting memory and new technology nodes.
Processed Materials held up well on continued strong memory market demand but we are now running at capacity for several of our key products.
We continue to focus on driving productivity yield improvement as well as expanding capacity at some of our key plants.
Performance Materials sales were down 8% on a constant currency basis on lower volumes across all three businesses.
Epoxy volumes were impacted by weaker oil and gas pipe and tank and marine coatings demand.
Additives volumes were impacted by oil and gas and mining weakness.
And polyurethane additives volumes were down on weaker auto and appliance demand.
Additive sales were also impacted by the deflationary pricing environment driven by lower oil prices and falling raw material prices.
Currency continues to be a significant headwind for our business.
As you know for the Industrial Gases business currency is almost completely a translational item.
But for Materials Technologies business given the global nature of our supply network we also have transaction impact from currency especially in Performance Materials where North America supplies a significant portion of our demand in Europe Asia and Latin America.
Sequentially sales were impacted by currency weaker delivery systems and lower Performance Materials demand.
Despite the volume weakness EBITDA of $140 million resulted in a margin increase of 130 basis points and operating income of $116 million resulted in a margin increase of 160 basis points.
Profits would have been roughly flat versus last year on a constant currency basis.
Currency lower Performance Materials volumes softer Delivery Systems demand inventory revaluation from deflationary pricing and higher incentive compensation costs were partially offset by strong margin management improvement in our business mix productivity and our cost-reduction actions.
For Materials Technologies excluding Delivery Systems our EBITDA would have been up low-to-mid single digits despite the currency headwinds.
Please turn to slide 21 for a review of our full-year results.
During fiscal year 2015 the Materials Technologies team delivered a tremendous result a second year of significant improvement in the quality of our business.
Despite modest end market growth we increased both operating margins and EBITDA margins by over 400 basis points.
Innovation margin management actions and cost focus more than offset headwinds from weak macroeconomic demand currency and higher incentive compensation.
As I shared with you last quarter we have been able to capture significant volume growth and several of our businesses are now running their plants at very high utilization rates.
We have initiated several investments to expand capacity in both the U.S.
and in Asia.
These investments include our new Performance Materials production facility in Texas capacity expansions in Processed Materials and Advanced Materials and productivity improvement investments.
Our rapid growth and tight capacity will limit our volume growth capabilities in the early part of 2016 but will support our longer term growth expectations starting the second half of the year.
Even with these investments the Materials Technologies business still generates a very high level of free cash flow.
Our maintenance CapEx is only about 1.5% of sales and our growth capital average is 2% to 3% of sales on a normalized basis.
Innovation continues to be at the core of our organic growth and for our future products and solutions for our customers.
We are confident in the returns we're getting from our technology investments and are committed to maintaining the technology leadership in the market segments we're focused on.
Overall while we're disappointed by the market demand for Performance Materials we are pleased with our innovation initiatives and the hard work around productivity margin management and cost actions by the team.
Regardless of the weaker macroeconomic conditions currency and raw material dynamics we drove margin improvements in Q4 and for the full year.
For Electronics while there are signs of softening demand we do not foresee a significant downturn in the electronics industry.
For Performance Materials we expect to continue to see challenges from macro demand and currency.
Regardless of the macroeconomic headwinds we expect to improve our profitability and deliver higher profits in 2016 than we did in 2015.
However we do expect to see our typical seasonal profit drop from Q4 to Q1 so more of the improvement will come in the second half of the fiscal year.
We are executing and remain focused on our key priorities: safety top line growth and margin enhancement.
Equally important we're committed to meeting or exceeding our timeline for the spin-off of Materials Technologies as a stand-alone company.
This is the second year of strong performance improvement for Materials Technologies.
I'm certain that I can speak for the entire team that we are committed to adding value to our customers to the success of our business and to creating an exciting and profitable future for all stakeholders.
Again I look forward to spending time with you to discuss our business in more details.
I provided you details on how our business is performing this year this quarter and into next year.
But let me summarize and re-emphasize that we expect to deliver higher profits from Materials Technologies in fiscal year 2016 than we did in fiscal year 2015.
The improvements we've made over the last two years have fundamentally changed and strengthened the Materials Technologies business and positioned us well to continue to deliver profitable growth.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Simon for quick comments on the Corporate segment.
Thanks Guillermo.
Our Corporate segment consists of our LNG and helium container businesses as well as corporate costs which are not business-specific.
Sales were up this quarter versus last year as we continue to see higher LNG sales more than offsetting lower helium container sales.
The LNG projects in our backlog continue with no delays or cancellations.
However we have seen a slowdown in customer decision-making on new projects that will likely impact our FY 2016 results.
The improved profitability this quarter was primarily driven by the higher LNG activity and the benefit of reduced corporate costs.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Seifi.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you again Simon.
Now please turn to slide number 22 for a discussion of our outlook.
The Air Products team continues to stay focused on our goal of becoming the safest and most profitable industrial gas company in the world.
We have made great progress in fiscal year 2015 and delivered a 14% improvement in our operating profit.
And we expect to continue our journey during fiscal year 2016.
Our guidance for fiscal year 2016 is to actually deliver earnings per share of $7.25 to $7.50 per share.
At mid point this will be an increase of $0.81 or 12% over our very strong fiscal year 2015 performance.
Our guidance for the first quarter of fiscal year 2016 is for earnings per share of $1.65 to $1.75.
At mid point this will be an increase of $0.15 or 10% over the fiscal first quarter of last year.
The full year and quarterly guidance obviously includes Materials Technologies.
We expect our CapEx expense to be about $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion in 2016 which is down slightly from this year.
As you have seen from our recent project announcements we see great opportunities to invest Air Products substantial cash flow into good high-return projects in our core Industrial Gases business.
Despite an uncertain economic environment the Air Products team will stay focused as they did this year to take actions that we control to actually deliver the results that we promise despite economic conditions or currency exchange rates.
I would like to add that I have now been Chairman and CEO of Air Products for the past 16 months.
I am now convinced more than ever that Air Products has a great future ahead of it.
We do have an outstanding team of talented dedicated and motivated people who are driving change and we are blessed with having the great portfolio of businesses around the world with more than 700 000 outstanding customers to serve.
I'm proud of our people and considered it an honor and a privilege to be part of this winning team.
Now we are delighted to answer your questions.
And we'll go first to Duffy Fischer of Barclays.
Mr.
Fischer your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Good morning fellows.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Duffy.
How are you? Inc.</span></strong> Good.
Thanks.
Maybe start on Seifi's favorite slide slide 8.
Very impressive performance in the margin there.
Can you break out into buckets where the big chunks of that have come from? How much has been from the cost savings? How much has been from new plants coming online? And then maybe talk about how that would have been different than what you would have thought day one that you took the job where that was going to come from? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well approximately half of that 700 basis points is cost savings and the other half is related to price increases volumes and the new plants coming onstream.
And in terms of my expectations the day that I started I thought that it would take us three years to get that 300 basis points improvement and it has been accomplished in one year and I'm very proud of that.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then from your slide 9 where you walked through the cash flow there maintenance capital last year was $311 million maintenance capital this year $250 million.
When you think about maintenance capital I would have thought there isn't that much variation from year to year.
How should we think about a normalized maintenance cap level for you guys? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We have always said that order of magnitude around $300 million.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Sure.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks Duffy.
And we'll go next to Jeff Zekauskas of JPMorgan.
Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Jeff.
Hi.
You said that your CapEx next year would be I don't know $1.5 billion or $1.6 billion.
Is that also your non-GAAP CapEx or is your non-GAAP CapEx different? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Scott you want to...
Yeah.
Hi Jeff.
That is both our GAAP and non-GAAP CapEx.
We haven't been doing  the adjustment that you're referring to is the capital leases in the 2001-2008.
We haven't been doing those lately so that's both GAAP and non-GAAP.
And you were kind enough to give an indication of what you thought you would earn next year.
Your GAAP earnings have been lower than your adjusted earnings.
Do you have an idea of what your GAAP range would be for next year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't expect too many so called one-off items.
The biggest one-off items we have had this year has been the restructuring which has been about $212 million $213 million.
And next year there will be some restructuring charge but I don't expect the magnitude to be as big Jeff.
Okay.
Good.
Thank you so much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And we'll go next to P.J.
Juvekar of Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes.
Hi good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning P.J.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Couple of questions on China.
First three major projects you're starting up with 20 000 tons per day of oxygen.
What is the EPS impact of these projects? And then secondly you mentioned that you have this new strategy of increasing your retail sales in China and reducing your wholesale volumes in China.
Can you just talk a little bit more about that strategy? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
I think Corning would be delighted to answer the questions.
So I'm not sure that we've given out specific guidance on specific projects but I think in general we would expect them to come in with the profitability that you would expect from the guidelines we put out.
I think the key point is this is a question of exactly what's the timing and when are they on and fully onstream but again we see all of our customers progressing their plants building them to construction.
They don't operate without oxygen so they need us and they pay us for it.
I don't expect big surprises there.
In terms of retail versus wholesale so I think it's common when people first bring on a new liquefier that in terms of getting loading a lot of that volume may go into a wholesale sort of environment.
We don't have new liquid to bring on at this point.
All of our liquid is currently on.
And so we're naturally in the process of preferentially signing and selling to retail customers and to a large extent that's about application sales helping customers to be more efficient and more productive in their own operations and that's something you can do in any economic environment right because you're helping them to be more competitive.
And when you think an emerging market right they're not typically as let's say industrial gas intensive or developed as a more mature economy and that's another reason we're able to push that in China today even in the current economic environment.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
And my second question is on your free cash flow.
Can you talk about sort of if you have any growth long term growth for free cash flow? And Scott maybe a rationale for buying out Indura now? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Go ahead.
Sure.
So in terms of free cash flow as we've talked in the past we're going to make sure that we maintain our A rating.
We're going to drive EBITDA up generating as much cash out of the existing assets we have and then we're going to evaluate the growth opportunities with organic growth opportunities being the ones that we're going to be able to create the most value for our shareholder.
That's what we done under Seifi over the last 16 months and that's what we're going to continue going forward.
In terms of Indura that was exercised by our minority partner per the contract and so that was a put that he put to us.
And now that we own that we have the opportunities to take control and drive improvements across the business that we weren't able to do previously.
By the way you'll see that also in a variety of forms including the fact that we paid down some high cost debt about $147 million bond that was out there at roughly 10%.
And so we're going to see some improvement in interest expense as part of what we did here this quarter.
So another example of the things that we're doing in Indura to drive improvement.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you P.J.
And we'll go next to David Begleiter of Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning David.
Hi David.
Inc.</span></strong> Seifi very impressive margins in Gases-Americas EBITDA of 34.9% in 2015.
How much higher can it go in 2016 do you think? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well obviously some of that is dependent David on what the economy will do and what kind of a leverage we get.
But at the same time we have said that we are going to have another $75 million of cost savings in 2016.
A lot of that is in the Americas so I expect those margins to continue to improve.
Inc.</span></strong> Very good.
And just on Tees Valley Seifi do you have an update? And what should we think about the impact from a earnings standpoint from Tees Valley to be in 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> There will be no income from Tees Valley in 2016.
In our forecast that we have given you there is no consideration for any contribution from Tees Valley.
Inc.</span></strong> Will it be a loss-making entity in 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'm sorry? Inc.</span></strong> Will it lose money in 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
I don't expect it to lose money.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And we'll go next to Bob Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Bob.
Seifi I want to follow up on Tees.
I recognize your desire to be pretty cautious and conservative on that.
But you guys are plunking down $1 billion.
And at the time the contracts were written I thought they were fixed price.
Has something changed about the revenue base that you'd previously contracted for that would put it into a breakeven position instead of a moneymaker? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well the Tees Valley Bob we are in the process of starting up that plant.
So we don't expect that plant to really be in commercial operation in 2016.
So that's why we have assumed that it would not be contributing to the bottom line.
Sorry.
Just to be clear so the contract terms you had on the waste fee power fee renewables none of that's changed? It's just the ability to get it into commercialization and it's...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
...I guess it's at least three years behind.
Is that an indictment of the technology or is there some other issue at work? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
It's just related to the technology.
We have always said that there is a chance that the technology will not work Bob so we are still working to figure out whether it does work or not.
Okay.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> There's a good chance that it doesn't work so we have to be aware of that and I have been mentioning that for the past year.
Yes.
And then let me ask you more broadly Seifi I mean from your prior tenure in the gases industry it seems like the world has gotten much tougher for industrial gas companies.
I know your volumes in the last year are up about 2%.
I think your friends at Praxair they're down 1% or 2% so far this year.
I think the packaged guys in the U.S.
Airgas are down a little bit.
But the globe hasn't been in a recession.
So is there something fundamentally broken about the old multipliers between gases demand and economic growth? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Bob I don't really see that.
I think that what we are facing with right now in terms of the growth in volume is just that the LOX/LIN volumes are down.
But when you look at our on-site facilities the volumes are not that far down.
We are making significant progress in China and I think in the long term there is a lot of opportunities for industrial gases.
And I think all of the industrial gas companies in time will enjoy about 1.5 times GDP growth rates.
I don't see any fundamental change in that.
Great.
Thanks for the help.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you very much Bob.
Take care Bob.
And we'll go next to Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial.
Yes.
Thank you.
Seifi just wondering in next year's guidance how much greater is the contribution from new projects? And as you look at the backlog I notice you indicated your new Baytown facility was sold out the day you announced it.
So should we assume more announcements on U.S.
Gulf Coast hydrogen and could that be offset by sort of the end of the Chinese coal gasification opportunity? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well first of all I don't expect that the Chinese coal gasification would  that it is the end.
I think there's still a lot of opportunity there and we will appropriately participate on that.
We have gotten off of the habit of giving you a specific forecast about new projects because that is too much competitive information to give away.
So I apologize for not giving you that.
But we are very optimistic.
You have seen the projects that we have announced.
And we are saying that next year our forecast right now is that we will increase our profits by 15% as compared to other people.
So I think that's a good indication that we will see additional volumes.
Okay.
And then as a follow-up on price I notice your October 1st price increase initiative.
It seems pretty aggressive for North America given where operating rates are I think 20% on liquid argon 15% LIN/LOX.
And I know these take time to roll through but are conditions in the North American merchant market improving to the point where you think you can get a lot of this price? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well obviously we hope that that would be the case.
And then what happens in the real world it remains to be seen but it certainly is our intent to implement the price increases.
Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And we'll go next to John Roberts of UBS.
Thank you.
2016 will be the fourth year of lower capital spending.
Based on these new wins and so forth you've been having recently do you think this is the bottom in 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I wouldn't want  well you have to consider that Air Products spent a significant amount of money on the waste to energy project.
Obviously we are not going to invest in waste to energy projects in the future.
So if you take that out then I think we will continue to see a growth in the investment in the gases business.
Okay.
So the total number might decline but gases would be turning around? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes sir.
And then in the Materials segment the dispensing equipment part of the business has always had greater cyclicality.
I don't believe that you manufacture the equipment.
So is there a different business model you might take in that business that would make it more variabilized so that you reduce the cyclicality on the total business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's a very good question.
I'm going to have Guillermo address that question.
Thank you for the question.
If you look at our Delivery Systems business it's roughly around 10% of the portfolio.
As I indicated there's really two parts to it: the equipment side and the turnkey projects.
The equipment side we actually do manufacture all the delivery equipment both for the specialty gases the specialty materials and we also have a business for slurry delivery in part of the portfolio.
So those we do manufacture and we do sell.
There is some volatility in that part of it but it's pretty steady.
Where we get the majority of the volatility is in the turnkey projects and those are really project-driven activities.
And those are just going to be the nature of when the projects come.
But the turnkey projects is not the majority of the business.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks.
And we'll go next to Jim Sheehan of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning Seifi.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Jim.
How are you? Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Say on your 2016 outlook what are you incorporating there as your assumption for FX headwinds and how much of the growth is going to be attributable to organic growth please? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> In the forecast that we have given you we have assumed that we will have a hit of about $0.10 for exchange rate translation.
That's the assumption that is in there.
In terms of organic growth versus  we have assumed not much of a organic growth because we don't believe that the economic conditions around the world will be that robust next year.
So most of our growth is going to  the growth in EPS is going to come from cost reduction and from our on-site businesses.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Jim.
Thanks Jim.
And we'll go next to David Manthey of Robert W.
Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Seifi it looks like you achieved the first $300 million of cost improvement about three months ahead of your recent plan so you're on to the next $300 million.
Can you outline some of the examples of operational improvement that you hope to achieve over this four-year period? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
I think I'd like to have Corning kind of address this because he is in charge of the delivering the other $300 million.
Corning? Thank you Seifi.
So the reality is in this business the nature of our business this is the 10 000 little things that we talk about.
And even if I was going to say improving spec power well it's spec power over many different plants all of whom have their own operating situation.
So I think the thing I'd really like to stress here is what enables you to drive 10 000 things better than you used to? And it heavily goes to the organizational changes that we've made right? So we've gone to a much more decentralized and empowered field organization where those production assets are.
Number two we have one owner for these assets.
It used to be there might be someone who had the tonnage business or electronics business and then the merchant business different debates about how to optimize the use of that.
That's over.
That's done.
That's behind us.
And then we've got the incentive plan right which motivates every one of these local teams to think about their EBITDA how do they drive productivity every one of them each day.
And I think those three drivers are a very powerful move that's moving us through to optimize those 10 000 and to hit these productivity targets.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And your confidence level there I would imagine you have folks that have run these types of facilities for you that have also run them at other companies and roughly 300 basis points of the overall you think is a reasonable estimate for how inefficient your operations are relative to what something would be running it if it's optimal today? So I think I'd rather not get into is it optimal unoptimal today this and that.
I think a couple of things here.
Number one there is something going on in this company and we are absolutely positively committed to being the safest and most profitable company while giving our customers excellent service.
That's what this is about.
And if other companies move up then we just need to do more.
We are committed to that.
We're motivated for that.
We've kind of unleashed the productivity with this new organization.
And do we see opportunities to do things better in line with what we're doing? Yes.
Do we have plans in place for this? Yes we do.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
Just a quick one for you Scott.
In Asia you mentioned there were these catch-up payments.
I'm just wondering if you could give a little bit more detail on what they were whether there are any more to come going forward and whether they were 100% margin in the quarter? That'd be helpful.
Yeah.
Corning? Yeah.
Thank you.
So these are of course specific to an individual or a set of customers so it's very difficult to go into the specifics about them.
I think the key point is associated typically with a start-up and which products they want and where are we in terms of the start-up process at different points in time.
And perhaps the other really key point is we've collected everything.
So it's all in the P&amp;L and it's all been in.
And so I don't see that repeating in a significant way going forward.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks very much guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right Vince.
Okay.
Why don't we take one more question? And we'll take our final question from Mike Harrison of Seaport Global.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
We knew you were on the line so go ahead Mike.
Thanks very much.
Was curious if you could delineate what the split is between your retail and wholesale merchant volumes in China now and how has that changed over time? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Well I think Corning can answer that question easily.
Go ahead Corning.
Yeah.
Because of the competitive nature I think we would rather not go into the specifics of this other than to say that let's say in LOX/LIN we are at this point certainly predominantly retail direct to customers and we see a slow but steady improvement.
With a large basis like that it doesn't change overnight.
But I'd rather not get into exact specifics just for competitive reasons.
Okay.
And then looking at the Industrial Gases- Global segment there was much better profitability this quarter.
You called out some lower costs but are we starting to see the Jazan ASU sales trickle in there and can you give any guidance for that segment for next year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> There isn't much of Jazan in the numbers that we have for 2015.
And for 2016 I think Jazan is a project that is a 20-year project and the profits will come after the plant starts up four years from now.
For 2016 we are going to be very cautious in recognizing any profit in terms of the sales from the plant because these plants need to come onstream.
You had a lot of obligations in terms of performance guarantees and all of that.
So one has to be cautious and there is a lot of accounting rules that we have to follow on that.
So there isn't a lot of projections for a lot of profit for that in 2016.
All right.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> And so with that I'd like to thank everybody.
Thank you for taking the time again to be on our call.
We appreciate that and we look forward to discussing our results with you in the next quarter.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.