Thank you for standing by and welcome to Lennar's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now turn the call over to Mr.
David Collins for the reading of the forward looking statement.
Today's call may include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to Lennar's future business and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements may include statements regarding Lennar's business financial condition results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar's estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could cause Lennar's actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar's annual report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Okay good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us for our first quarter 2011 update.
We're certainly pleased to announce our first quarter results.
Now although I'm in California this morning I'm joined from Miami by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; Diane Bessette Vice President and Treasurer; and David Collins our Controller.
Additionally Jon Jaffe our Chief Operating Officer is here with me; Rick [Rick Beckwitt] our soon-to-be President is in Miami with Bruce and group; and Jeff Krasnoff is actually out of the country so he won't be able to join us today.
I apologize in advance if we're a little bit disjointed on the Q&amp;A.
We're going to try to go back and forth and make sure the right person is answering questions.
I'm going to begin with some brief opening remarks about the current housing market in general and the progress that we've made in managing our business and Bruce is going to provide additional detail on our numbers.
As always I'd like to request that in our Q&amp;A period everyone please limit to just one question one follow-up so that we can be as fair as possible to all of our participants.
Let me start this morning by cutting to the chase and let me say that the long-awaited selling season of 2011 has not yet defined itself as the beginning of a recovery cycle.
While we continue to see promising signs that a recovery is forming and that housing will rebound there continue to be negative pressures on volume and sales prices.
Nevertheless specific submarkets continue to perform well and MLS listings have declined in many of our markets and the foreclosure pipeline as measured by delinquency rates has trended down.
We've all seen evidence of a sluggish recovery in the reported national sales numbers for both existing homes and new homes and we have clearly seen the same on a realtime basis in the field.
We feel however that reported numbers will begin to show signs of life as we get into the second half of the year and comparisons become more favorable.
While traffic has at times felt promising and pointed to a potential start of a recovery cycle it has been more in the nature of a head fake and has lacked any sustained substance that might define a clear upward trend.
The state of the market is still generally soft with pockets in micro markets that are stabilizing.
As I've noted in many past quarterly conference calls the housing recession depression that started well over five years ago has altered the landscape of the housing market in ways that will be with us for some time to come.
We continue to believe that the housing recovery will take time and patience and will be inconsistent and uneven from submarket to submarket but ultimately there will be a recovery and it will be strong.
Every day that the market languishes is another day that our industry is underserving the true need for shelter given our national population growth and household formation.
Given the current landscape we're very pleased to report a profitable first quarter with earnings of $27.4 million that comes from a contribution of solid Homebuilding and Financial Services performance a strong contribution from Rialto and a strong focus by our management team on seeking the recovery of money spent over the past years.
At present we're very comfortable with our operating strategy at Lennar and feel that we're properly positioned to be able to benefit from the current and future market conditions.
Opportunistically we've positioned ourselves to sustain our Homebuilding operation at breakeven or modest profitability while the market stabilizes.
At the same time we are well-situated with our Rialto program to capitalize on distressed opportunities in the market as the market sorts itself out.
Concurrently our management team is looking for every opportunity to recover dollars that were spent as market conditions deteriorated over the past years.
On the Homebuilding side we continue to focus on maximizing operational efficiency in order to achieve profitability in these difficult market conditions and benefit from real operating leverage as the market recovers.
In every one of our divisions we've created new product that is desirable in today's market while offering fewer plans and redesigning efficient plans that allow us to minimize costs.
We've used efficient designs as a foundation to renegotiate costs and to reduce those costs by an average of 25% enabling us to achieve maximum gross margins.
While some of these costs will rise as demand returns and will be passed on through price increases many of the cost efficiencies will benefit our ongoing cost structure permanently.
Cycle times also continue to come down due to our new more efficient product.
We've simply never run a more efficient program in the field for both the building and the purchasing side of our business.
Additionally we've reignited our Everything's Included marketing platform in order to ensure that Lennar Homes always offer the very best value proposition in the marketplace.
Lennar's Everything's Included platform has always delivered the best value in our markets by targeting the options and upgrades that are most desirable to the customers including them in the home offering and eliminating options and upgrades.
We've also rightsized our operations.
We've reduced our SG&amp;A in each of our operating divisions so that we are sized with appropriate personnel to operate profitably at today's depressed volumes while maintaining our most talented associates who will be able to drive even greater earnings as market conditions improve.
Finally and perhaps most importantly we've continued to purchase strategic new communities in the best locations and submarkets and have used these community purchases to help drive gross margins higher.
We've been very selective to purchase only those communities that will drive our gross margins to the upside and we've avoided the competitive bids that have resulted in driving land prices higher.
Overall we have carefully repositioned our Homebuilding operations to hold steady while the market finds a bottom and stabilizes.
We're well positioned with real operating leverage to drive our bottom line when market conditions stabilize and improve.
Rialto continues to be a bright spot for the company.
As distress continues to resolve itself in the markets overall Rialto stands ready to invest in and manage the reconciliation of that distress.
If the market remains impaired Rialto will find more business opportunities.
And as the market recovers both Rialto and our Homebuilding operations will benefit from both operating leverage and price recovery.
While Bruce will go into more detail on the numbers in a few minutes similar to last quarter the major contributors to Rialto's $11 million of operating earnings in the fourth quarter are our share of the profits from distressed real estate portfolio transactions our Public-Private Investment fund activities with AllianceBernstein and the U.S.
Department of Treasury known as PPIP and the fees that we received from others for our management of these investments.
During the quarter we closed on two new transactions representing an additional $130 million of unpaid principal balance.
We've also tied up three new loan portfolios which subject to completion of closing conditions should add another $160 million of unpaid balance.
In addition we are in the process of acquiring two new issue commercial mortgage-backed securities transactions representing $100 million of bonds.
These CMBS transactions should provide a level of recurring cash flow and interest income along with outsized returns.
All of these new investments are being made by our Rialto real estate fund.
As we reported to you at the end of the year we had our first closing of approximately $300 million of equity commitments for our fund which included the company's $75 million contribution.
Because we also received fees for pursuing and managing fund investments it should also provide another opportunity for us to offset an additional component of our overhead and to earn incentive fees based on our performance.
All told in just the past year we acquired approximately 6 000 loans and 300 real estate properties with an unpaid balance or self-appraised value of approximately $4 billion.
With unpaid accrued and default interests and other amounts due from borrowers this is an excess of $4.6 billion.
We acquired these assets for approximately $1.6 billion or $0.35 on the dollar.
And after accounting for solo financing and our partner’s equity interest our net investment was approximately $460 million.
Although we did not add significant new investments in our PPIP fund with AllianceBernstein over the past few quarters due to the increased pricing of our targeted assets in a little over a year we have invested approximately 85% of our $4.6 billion of purchasing power to buy $6.5 billion in face of RMBS and CMBS.
From the beginning our focus has been on acquiring securities with resilient cash flows with the goal of collecting a mid- to high teens return by holding these assets until maturity.
Nevertheless while it is still early in the program based on a mark-to-market of the underlying collateral and the principal and interest collected to date our fund has operated at a gross 50% annualized internal rate of return while it continues to distribute an 8% current dividend.
We continue to benefit from these results due to the $64 million we have invested to date as part of our $75 million commitment.
Note that this includes the approximately $2 million of annual management fees that we are currently collecting and our 22.5% share of the carried interest to be earned by our partnership group.
On the operations side we continue to build an outstanding team of professionals that now approximates 129 associates across the country.
While our detailed due diligence reviews combined with our resolution process and real estate operating capabilities allow us to look at distressed portfolios on a wholesale basis and through our operations bring value to individual assets on a retail basis.
Our disciplined loan workout and resolution process were initially designed almost two decades ago to maximize proceeds and returns from distressed assets.
In our regularly scheduled Asset Manager meetings our team methodically and professionally approaches and deals with the underlying borrowers and tees up many of the resolutions that have to date exceeded our initial underwritings.
We are now deep into all of our 2010 portfolios having had contact with borrowers representing over 90% of the combined outstanding loan balances.
And our first two transactions with the FDIC for which we took over management almost one year ago we have now fully resolved over 300 assets and have brought in over $213 million in cash with our team achieving an average resolution of over $0.83 on the dollar.
We now have $201 million on the partnership balance sheet.
Approximately $126 million of this is earmarked to defease the original $627 million of acquisition financing and the rest is available as working capital to help maximize the resolution of these assets.
We believe that our team and the infrastructure we have in place today is already way ahead of the pack and is setting the standards for best practices in the industry.
This has positioned us extremely well for a growing pipeline of opportunity from the FDIC from banks and from others.
We remain very excited about our growing franchise and our current position in our marketplace and the synergies with the rest of the Lennar team and we look forward to reporting to you on our progress in Rialto in the future.
I feel that I would be remiss if I did not mention the activities surrounding the Nick Marsh Barry Minkow accusations that hurt our company back in January 2009.
By now I am sure that all of you are aware that Barry Minkow has been charged with conspiracy to commit securities fraud and plans to plead guilty to that charge this week.
We believe that the investigation into other parties is ongoing as well.
While I do not want to rehash this very difficult time in our history nor do I want to find vindication in the uncovering of this crime against our company I do want to highlight some important notes.
First you will note that we are reporting today a $37.5 million income item in the "other category." As noted in our press release this is a recovery that relates to a confidential settlement with a third party not the developer third party in connection with Lennar's ongoing dispute with Nicholas Marsh III and his affiliates.
As a result of the settlement the third party paid Lennar total cash consideration of $37.5 million.
While the terms of this settlement are confidential and we will not comment on it beyond this statement the recovery repays some of the dollars that have been spent defending our reputation and demonstrates the conviction of our company when our reputation is attacked.
Second immediately following Misters Marsh and Minkow's accusations against Lennar we countered with facts and figures to highlight that these claims were false.
At Lennar we place the highest premium on integrity and work diligently to make sure that when we speak every word can be trusted not as spin but as truth.
We hope we have earned your respect in the way that we report our numbers each quarter and year by the way that we deal with customers partners and investors alike and by the way that we report on macro conditions relating to the state of the Homebuilding market and the economy.
We expect that the finding of criminal activities surrounding the dissemination of false information that clouded our company for some time properly validates the many responses we have given you over the past two and half years and allows us all to move on once and for all.
Finally we believe that this incident clearly validates the good work and important role of our industry analysts.
On January 9 with news hitting the press that caught us all by surprise every one of our industry analysts jumped to action to investigate and respond with the best independent information available at the time.
Over the ensuing days and weeks there were countless calls and meetings hosted by this group that became the forum for reconciling what was said and what was real.
While we could not always convince them of our position without sometimes painstaking diligent research they all listened to our position reviewed our materials and became an independent voice for fact and fact-checking that we could not have provided to the market on our own.
They were the independent voice for the investor community and we thank all of you on the line for your work.
Overall in the context of a very difficult market we are pleased with the progress that we've made as reflected in our first quarter result and more importantly with the general direction of our company’s strategy.
Homebuilding and Financial Services remain positioned to be profitable in today's uncertain times and to drive materially improved profits as the market stabilizes and ultimately begins to recover.
At the same time our Rialto strategy is building momentum in this distressed environment as it grows both new and exciting opportunities to invest company capital and as well real bottom line profitability.
Our management team remains focused on finding recoveries of dollars that we’ve spent as the market deteriorated.
At the end of the day our people continue to be the bright spot in our company.
The dedication and focus in all parts of our company are reflected in our positive results in the toughest of environments.
From the execution of business plans in the field to the cooperative spirit that exists between the Lennar Homebuilding and Rialto segments of our company from sourcing new business opportunities to finding dollar recoveries of money spent our people are really making a difference.
More importantly our in-place management team and overall staffing are positioned to drive real operating leverage as market conditions ultimately improve.
While we remain cautious about the immediate future we believe that we have properly positioned our company to succeed in the current environment and excel when the market recovers.
We will continue to make strategic and opportunistic investments and focus on every aspect of our cost structure as we look forward to continue to be profitable throughout 2011.
And with that let me turn over to Bruce.
Thank you Stuart and good morning.
We indicated on our fourth quarter conference call that the first quarter will be challenged due to low volume expectations.
However as Stuart mentioned we still generated a $27.4 million bottom line profit and I'll provide some more details behind those results.
Revenues from home sales decreased 11% to $458 million.
That was due to a 4% decrease in home deliveries excluding joint ventures and a 7% decrease in average sale price.
While the company's average sale price decreased to $240 000 from $258 000 in the prior year it actually increased sequentially from the $238 000 reported in our fourth quarter.
If you break down the average sales price by region the East was $225 000 which is down 2%; Central $211 000 up 1%; Houston $222 000 up 4%; and the West was $301 000 which was down 20% and that was primarily due to a lower price product strategy implemented in our Las Vegas market and a product mix that was different in our California market during the quarter; the Other region was $265 000 and that was up 4%.
So the average sales prices remained relatively stable over the last four quarters now right around that $240 000 mark.
Our gross margin on home sales improved to 20% during the quarter and that compares with 19.2% in the prior year.
Our gross margins were strongest in the East and West regions.
The improvement in gross margin continues to be due to a combination of deliveries from new communities with higher gross margins the continued focus on controlling costs and a reduction in sales incentives on homes closed.
Sales incentives declined by $4 000 from the prior year to $33 100 and this is flat from our fourth quarter results.
During the quarter we had $4.8 million of homebuilding community impairments versus $6.1 million in the prior year's quarter.
The pre-impairment gross margin for those that want to look at it that way for the quarter was up to 21.1% and that compares favorably to the pre-impairment gross margin of 20.3% last year in the first quarter and 20.8% in the fourth quarter.
Our SG&amp;A as a percentage of home sales was 16.4% compared with 15.8% in the prior year.
However the absolute dollars declined by $5.7 million.
There were two non-recurring items included in SG&amp;A this quarter.
First was a $6.6 million charge relating to expenses associated with remediating an assumed liability from a previously acquired company; and second $8 million of the $37.5 million settlement that Stuart discussed was classified as a reduction to SG&amp;A.
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures was $0.7 (sic) [$8.7 million] versus an $8.9 million loss in the prior year.
The gain was primarily a result of restructuring of debt at our El Toro joint venture which resulted in a $15.4 million gain.
This is our share of the gain from extinguishment of debt at the joint venture level.
As part of this restructure we also extended the debt maturity out to 2018 thereby positioning this venture's capital structure to be well-matched with the long-term strategic asset that we have at El Toro in the middle of Orange County.
This gain was partially offset by $4.5 million of valuation adjustments in our own unconsolidated entities.
Other income net totaled $30 million in the first quarter versus $14.2 million in the prior year.
The main item here is $29.5 million of the $37.5 million settlement described by Stuart.
Additionally we were able to recognize $10 million of previously deferred management fees relating to one of our joint ventures this quarter.
There were $13.1 million of valuation adjustments relating to our unconsolidated entities and other during the quarter.
Turning to Financial Services.
We generated operating earnings of $1.2 million versus a $900 000 loss last year.
Mortgage pretax income was $3.4 million versus $2.9 million in the prior year.
During the quarter FICO scores have remained relatively constant in the low 700s and we're still seeing about 60% of our buyers using FHA-insured loans.
Our title company had a $1.7 million loss during the quarter.
That compares with a $3.4 million loss in the prior year.
And our Rialto segment generated operating earnings of $11 million.
This is net of $12 million of net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests.
As a reminder we consolidate the FDIC portfolios and therefore our results reflect all the activity from the FDIC entities with an offset attributable to noncontrolling interest.
In order to simplify our Rialto results I'll once again provide a summary of the $11 million of operating earnings by type of investment as follows: $9.3 million of earnings were generated from our 40% share of FDIC portfolios plus $4.9 million from the non-FDIC portfolios acquired during the fourth quarter of 2010 $4.6 million of earnings from the PPIP less approximately $7.8 million of G&amp;A and other expenses.
The $9.3 million of earnings from the FDIC portfolios this quarter is primarily from accretable interest income which is based on the expected cash flows from loan payoffs and interest income and from gains upon foreclosure of REO assets.
The $4.9 million of income generated from the non-FDIC portfolios is derived from both accretable interest income and the sale of REO and gains from foreclosure.
The $4.6 million of earnings during the quarter from our investment in PPIP is reported as equity in earnings from unconsolidated entities.
$2.8 million of this income is interest income and $1.8 million is due to unrealized gains.
G&amp;A expenses were $7.8 million.
However we earned approximately $4.1 million in gross management fees that were in the performance of the aforementioned investments.
We had a $2.4 million tax benefit during the quarter due to favorable resolution of certain tax issues and we continue to reduce our deferred tax asset and increase shareholders equity as we generate profits.
The deferred tax asset reserve at the end of the first quarter was now reduced to $601 million.
Our diluted share count for the EPS calculation was 195 million shares and the convertible interest add back for the first quarter was $871 000.
In the first quarter we continued to maintain balance sheet strength while investing in new strategic opportunities.
Our liquidity remained strong.
Our leverage remained low.
Homebuilding debt-to-total capital net of the $1 billion of cash on the balance sheet at quarter end was 44.5%.
We reduced the number of unconsolidated joint ventures to 38% of which only 14% have recourse debt and that totals a maximum recourse debt of $179 million at the end of the first quarter.
We invested $158 million in new well located communities across the country totaling approximately 2 400 homesites.
Inventory increased approximately $145 million sequentially to $3.9 billion and this excludes consolidated inventory not owned.
There were 91 000 homesites owned and 17 000 controlled at quarter end totaling 108 000.
And we ended the quarter with approximately two completed unsold homes per community.
We added approximately 56 new communities during the quarter and closed out 44 for a net increase of 12 from the fourth quarter.
We now have 452 active communities at the end of the quarter.
In conclusion our team of associates are working hard in all areas of the company and we remain confident that 2011 will be another profitable year.
With that we'll open it up for questions.
I appreciate the color on Rialto.
I just wanted to ask the loan portfolios that you mentioned you acquired recently they're in the $100 million to $200 million range is this the size of typical deals that you're looking at or are there as many large portfolios hitting the market? No.
They are of various sizes.
It just so happens that we've had some smaller portfolios that we've been able to nail down a little bit earlier.
We are actually working on some larger portfolios at the same time.
And it will be interesting to see but we think that there will be some large ones out there that do trade.
Great and then can you just broadly characterize the investment pipeline and competitive landscapes? Have you seen pricing become more difficult? And also if you could just comment on the increase in underlying operating expenses which I think you indicated related to underwriting fees.
Yes.
I think that the pipeline is very active right now.
I don't think that prices are out of control at all.
I don't think that prices are being bid up.
There are actually fewer competitors today than there were a year ago for portfolios.
And we think that there's going to be a lot more out there as banks and the FDIC continue to sell off assets that need to be resolved.
In terms of the underlying operating expenses we're seeing very strong operating leverage.
The most expensive part of building an organization is what happens in the beginning.
As we add new portfolios the SG&amp;A associated with new portfolios is materially lower than it was in the beginning and we think we'll continue to see strong profitability derived from that in the future.
This is actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the month-to-month trends during the quarter regarding pricing and pace and perhaps if maybe you can give us an early read on what March looked like.
Okay.
Rick? Yes I guess talking about March first versus the quarter we generally don't like to give intra-quarter guidance.
But given that that’s what everybody focuses I can say that pretty much across the board the March to date numbers are better than what we recorded with regard to orders growth for last quarter.
We saw a pickup in activity sequentially from December January February and that was pretty much across all markets.
Okay.
And then on the next question is just of the land purchases you did during the quarter did any of that come to Rialto and if so how much? There were few communities that came in sourced by Rialto that were then closed on the Homebuilding side.
I would tell you that of the 56 new gross communities that we did during the quarter probably about 15% where sourced by Rialto.
First question Stuart in your speech you talked about reigniting Everything's Included and I wonder if you could give us more details about what kind of things you’re putting in the house? Or when you can [ph] what kind of things you're putting in the house now that you weren't before? Has there been some sort of shift in what buyers are paying for or is that maybe you're decontenting the house a little bit? Can you give us some more color on it? Well David at the core of Everything's Included is market research and understanding exactly what people are looking for.
And by necessity the answer to that question is it's going to be different for every market and every submarket.
So our operating teams go out research in each market what the appetites are in that local market and what people are looking for.
What we try to do is include in the home the things that people would choose if they had the right -- if they were making choices on their own.
And in doing so by having those things included we're pricing them into the home pricing them into all of the homes and making the construction process a lot easier.
But the specific answer to your question is that it varies from market to market.
And the appetites of local customers are going to determine which specific items go into the home.
This is Jon.
I would add to that sort of specifically some items we're seeing across all markets are items that focus on technology and on energy efficiency.
And in that regard we work with some of our larger vendors to -- once we identify through our market research what our consumers are interested in work on packaging and on cost efficiency in delivering the products that they want at a great value.
Great and then my follow-up question was you guys give incentives as a percent of home price.
And I guess it’s a little bit back when looking with new month deliveries when you look at what’s in the backlog now and kind of as you're selling through as you were selling through the quarter were you finding that you were offering more incentives or is that firming up pretty nicely? Actually the trendline on incentives has been going down into the month.
And it really has followed that path sequentially through last quarter as well.
I wonder Stuart if you could comment on the sustainably of gross margins at 21% x charges that are already running above your historic average similar to 1998 and 2000 which is very impressive obviously given all the known headwinds that exist as well as kind of the outlook or sequential outlook for the year given your comments perhaps around improving absorption pace.
Let me let Rick and Jon take that one.
This is Jon.
It's what we focus on everyday in the field Rick and I with the Regional Presidents and Division Presidents and as you know constant balance between maintaining margin and achieving an absorption that allows us to manage to a profitable level given our G&amp;A.
As you know there's clearly some headwinds in terms of that velocity as well as cost pressures.
And what we do is we battle everyday on the cost side both in terms of land acquisition land development and direct cost to maintain that margin.
And there’s just going to continue to be that kind of day-to-day battle as we move forward until we have some pricing power.
Right so it sounds as though you've -- I mean it’s a day-to-day battle but does it strike you as odd that given all these headwinds you're at such a high level? Obviously Bruce commented on new communities and new lots contributing to that and some builders think that that land is of a limited supply.
Just to get a better clarity around that as well as your units under construction.
Look that land is at limited supply but I think that we've been able to source new land opportunities that have enabled us to continue to maintain our margin and have really given us an advantage.
Will it be sustainable going forward with the headwinds surrounding volume and pricing? Look there's clearly some pressure out there.
But as Jon said it's what we do everyday.
We focus on maintaining that gross margin by buying the next community at the right price by managing our cost structure and making sure that we're driving our gross margin to the highest level possible.
This is Rob Hansen on for Nishu.
I wanted to see if you could clarify your comments about March.
Did you say that it was up month-over-month on a kind of normal basis a little better than planned? How does that compare to previous years? The level of decline year-over-year is less than the last quarter.
Okay and then your order rate during the quarter how did that compare to your internal budget expectations at the outset were they above plan below? In general just how would you say the spring selling season is shaping up compared to your original expectations? We were relatively close to plan for the quarter.
We had some divisions that exceeded plan.
We had some that met plan and some that fell short.
I think as Rick said the quarter was sort of sequential.
December as I think you all know from what's been reported in the news was an extremely difficult month and that was the beginning of our quarter.
And so as we move through January and February we did see some stabilization improvement compared to the beginning of the quarter.
Just wondering if you can talk about Texas to start [ph].
Was there any theme in terms of some of the volumes there whether it's on tougher FHA lending that's been more difficult for volume competition from others who have been aiming for volume? Anything you can comment on that would be great.
Texas continues to be a tough market to operate in.
Competition there is fierce.
Credit challenged buyers are an issue.
And we're working hand-in-hand with the mortgage company to get people qualified.
It was sort of a mixed bag throughout Texas.
There were parts of Texas that actually showed some year-over-year growth.
But our largest market Houston was off.
What we can say is that we've seen some pricing stabilization in the market and we've had some recent success in working with credit-challenged buyers.
Great.
And then second question wondering about costs.
You talked about introducing new product and about using that to go back and lower costs and talked about seeing down 25%? I imagine that’s sort of from some time ago.
So thinking about costs in 2011 versus 2010 where would you say we are in that right now? On the cost side the biggest drivers right now are lumber pricing increases and a little bit of pressure on copper.
We've seen some downward revisions or downward adjustments in some of the other materials.
Net-net we're probably running $200 $300 $400 a home higher in material costs than where we were last quarter.
The unknown is are there going to be any increases in delivery costs with the rise in gasoline prices.
But on a net basis we've done such a tremendous job in working with the trades on efficiency of process and cycle time to eliminate their downtime at the site that we think that we’ll be able to really offset those things and they should be modest.
Jon just to elaborate on your comment on December recognizing that you closed your year-end 2010 with a very strong surprising order trend for the quarter is it possible that December fell off because you pulled forward some demand? Because it sounds like from commentary that January and February kind of bounced back and you continue to see that and you also -- I think Bruce commented that your incentives declined sequentially fourth quarter to first quarter as a percent of average selling price.
So I guess I'm feeling like you guys are more bearish than what your numbers are telling us and maybe you can help clarify.
It may have been a little bit pulled forward but I think that's pretty consistent with what you saw other builders report and market research companies report.
December was pretty flat Ivy and it just felt a little bit better as we moved past the new year.
But I think Stuart said in his general comments it remains very soft out there.
And from market to market we see different things happening.
Some markets feel a little bit better and you can definitely see some stabilization.
Other markets remain very choppy.
Can you just to follow-up go through sort of the best performers within the larger markets like within Florida versus California we already hit Texas or where really the weakest links are versus your strongest top markets please? I'd say the weakest links are sort of the southwest if you look at the Phoenix Vegas markets very soft demand and very competitive.
As Rick mentioned Texas particularly because of the big focus on first-time buyers is very difficult.
If you look in California I would say Orange County San Diego is the strongest performer.
But that's just a stable market as compared to say Central Valley and Sacramento which remain extremely weak.
And then on the East Coast if you look at the mid-Atlantic area up to D.C.
probably some of the strongest markets in the country.
Florida was up in the quarter for us.
I think some of that Ivy is due to more to the communities that we've got the submarkets within markets.
And we're benefiting from some of those strategic deals that we put together.
But net up in the quarter...
Rick can you just stay within Florida break down Florida a little bit further? Within Florida probably that central area is the softest part of Florida sort of Tampa Orlando.
And southwest if you're in the right location in that Naples Sarasota part of that curve of the communities that we've got the big master plan those are doing fine.
Southeast Florida is fine if you're in the right place.
It’s interesting Ivy if you look at the Mid-West Colorado remains soft and Minnesota seems pretty healthy.
Just a question for Bruce.
I want to make sure I understand some of the Rialto earnings correctly.
The $13 million in REO gains that you mentioned is that simply you acquiring REO and then adjusting what you think it's worth or are there actual realized gains in there? So the $13 million that you see in our press release that's primarily gains on foreclosure of assets.
So we have loans that as they go to foreclosure and they become REO we have the fair value of the assets on our books.
And because we purchase these portfolios wholesale big discounts when we fair value we've so far been recognizing income as we fair value those assets as they’re foreclosed.
Now keep in mind that $13 million because we consolidate the FDIC portfolio that's 100% of FDIC number then we back out 60% in noncontrollable interest so the real number is really 40% of that $13 million.
Stuart during your prepared remarks I think you said that there was a pressure on pricing but then you guys have also been talking about incentives getting better month-over-month.
So if can you help reconcile the two comments? Jon or Rick why don't you go ahead.
Well pressure on pricing is the pressure of the competition out there.
We're subject to what other homebuilders are selling their homes for.
And we're trying to maximize the value for the homes and working to get appraisal values up because that's the thing -- that's the headwind in us being able to nudge prices up month-to-month to month-to-month because you're dealing with some stale comps out there.
As far as incentives what we found through some marketing and some strategic things that we're doing in our sales centers that through the packaging that we've done with our Everything's Included product we've been able to decrease the incentives that we've had to do in order to get people to sign the contract.
So it's really not an inconsistent statement.
We're dealing with pricing pressure in the market but I think that our product is positioned well in the market to maximize value.
Okay and one more question you sort of suggested that spring has been of a disappointment in terms of sales but how has traffic been relative to your expectations? Traffic's been mixed.
We have gained an increase in the number of people coming through the communities clearly since the December January time frame.
You'd expect that with that being the time of the year.
And the number of people coming through are not just looking.
They want to buy a home.
As Stuart said in his remarks earlier that the biggest issue we have is getting them qualified.
But traffic is up.
We'd like to see more people.
So if anyone's looking for a home come to our sites.
First question is just on specs.
Bruce I don't know if you have handy the total number of unsold homes under construction.
I know you gave the finished spec number.
And then the second part of that question is if my math's correct your finished specs pretty much remained flat over the last few quarters.
Just given that your commentary regarding the choppiness you've seen thus far I might have thought that the finished spec count would have been worked down you wouldn't be having as many new specs coming online and given that vis-à-vis your cancellation rate came down so it doesn't look like cancellations really drove a lot of incremental spec finished spec in the quarter.
So maybe just help us understand what your sort of spec strategy is in the coming quarters.
I'm going to give you the number and then Rick will add on to this.
So the unsold homes under construction are just under 2 000 for the quarter.
As far as spec strategy I wouldn't be alarmed by the flat level of specs versus prior quarters.
Given the fact that we’ve started up operations in a lot of new communities over the last couple of quarters we want to get some product on the ground in order to deliver.
And if you look at just the last quarter we had about I don't know 10% 12% of our total community universe where new communities that were added during the quarter on a gross basis.
So it's really just product placement within new operations to get them going.
That's helpful thank you.
And then my second question is just on the land side.
Again if my numbers are correct the average price per homesite this quarter was somewhat higher than what you've been paying over the last year or so.
Is that just a function of geographic mix or are there any other factors you should consider in the types of lots that were buying quarter? And then just broadly speaking if you could talk about lot availability willingness of banks to bring supply to market? Let me take the first part of that question.
You're right $158 million and that got us 2 400 homesites.
It also got us a couple of hundred acres which I didn't mention.
But the location was different.
There was less in Texas and there were more in some of the coastal markets.
We feel really good about the acquisitions that we made during the quarter.
And we think as those communities open up we will continue to see higher than company average margins as we work through those communities.
So that's purely a function of geography.
And on the deal flow side we continue to see -- actually not see go find and seek out decent opportunities given the hand-in-hand relationship that we have with Rialto we've got doors open at places where not a lot of other folks are shopping.
Some of the low hanging fruit in the brokerage deals has been chewed through.
But we still see a pipeline of opportunity out there that we're pursuing.
If we could look at the cash Bruce you talked a little bit about land spend $158 million.
It looks like you used about $200 million in total.
Could you explain the big buckets of where that's going because I assume it looks like some of it went to Rialto.
Sure only about $11 million went to Rialto this quarter and that would have been our contribution or actual cash payment into the fund during the quarter.
Most of it is land acquisition and development.
And additionally in our fourth quarter as we went through the downturn and we tendered for some debt and we issued some new debt it turns out that the December 1 payment that we make on our interest tends to be the highest of the year.
So the interest payments during the quarter were higher than you'll see in our first and third quarters.
So second and fourth quarters have higher interest payments than the first and third.
And that's pretty much all of the difference.
Okay how much did you -- when you said the land $158 million did that include the development costs as well then? No it did not.
Roughly how much was that? I could circle back with you.
I have to look up that number Steve.
Sure no problem.
And then the other question I had is if you look forward based on what Stuart was saying a lot of gives and takes in the market on the pricing pressure and the costs et cetera your gross margin that you have in backlog and as you're looking out is it comparable to what we're seeing now? And then the SG&amp;A do you think that's -- you're at the right level that you need right now or does more costs have to come out of it? On the gross margin side I believe that’s close to that 20% number whether it's up 1% or down 1% that's the zip code that we're operating in right now.
And if we get a little bit of back wind or tailwind we'll be able to push that number.
And I think that's probably too big a range for you.
But it's right around that 20% number is I think a decent number.
On SG&amp;A Stephen we're running pretty lean.
We wanted to deliver more homes in the quarter than we did.
I think sequentially through the year that that percentage should go down.
And I think that we're comfortable.
If we need to make more cuts we'll make more cuts.
My first one is around your commentary from the prepared comments.
You talked about the second half being better.
My question is whether you expect the second half to be better from a sales perspective because the comps get easier year-on-year or do you expect an acceleration in growth relative to what you guys are seeing so far in this first half? Well Josh we keep our view pretty tight to where the market is right now.
We don't try to look out too far and make predictions about where the market is going to be and how it might reconcile.
The comment that I was really making is that comps in the first half of the year are going to be pretty tough because you're comparing to the accelerated sales the pull forward of sales that related to the tax credit that was in place last year.
And that will probably be I would say through April May.
And then as you go to the back half of the year the sales that were pulled forward resulted in a later sales pace at the back end of the year.
So the comparisons should be better.
And as soft as a data point as this is I think it is relevant that people start to see comparisons that are favorable and they start to get a little bit of confidence about the housing market in general.
And that reflects positively on the market overall.
So my comment was really more about the comparisons and the fact that we'll probably get some more positive data points as we get to the second half of the year.
It was less a comment about sales pace picking up in the back half of the year.
Got it and I guess my final question is one around your backlog burn rate.
I'm trying to understand if $120 million or above $100 is where you guys plan to run your business long term.
And ultimately I'd love to know what your cycle times are in order for you guys to get there.
And I'm wondering whether or not you guys are concerned at all about what your backlog may look like keeping up at 120 or 100%-plus type of pace as we continue through a rather sluggish sales environment.
On the percentage of backlog in a perfect world we'd like to presell everything Josh but that's not this market today.
People want to see what home they're getting so they can feel like they're negotiating for value and that -- so as the market shifts to a normalized market where you get a higher level of pre-sales you'll see that backlog conversion rate come down on a percentage basis just by definition.
So are you guys pre-building a certain number of these homes up to some point and that's what's allowing you to be able to convert so quickly? Is there something different about the way you're running your building operation that's allowing you to get this high level of backlog conversion rate? Or are you guys just building homes in 60 days? Well a lot of it is by definition is the results of the EI business model that we've got.
We don't have to tinker around with trying to backfill an option request for a customer coming in the door.
So from an efficiency standpoint we can build them pretty quick.
As Bruce noted earlier we do have one to two finished homes in each community that when they sell they close quick.
So you're seeing a backlog that is extremely fresh.
And by definition of that we can deliver it pretty quick.
All right.
And just to that point let me say the benefits of our EI program are really really strong in a lot of different areas.
It's not only a value proposition and an ability to get our costs down it also enables us to really enhance our cycle time and run an efficient business.
With that said let me just conclude by saying that we are really pleased with our overall operating strategy as we sit right now in current market conditions.
The market is soft and these are tough times.
From an operating strategy standpoint our Homebuilding operations are lean well positioned to remain profitable as we go through these tough times.
And our performance is augmented by our Rialto program which is really hitting stride right now.
On the Rialto side we are seeing numerous opportunities to make distress purchases.
We think that those opportunities will get bigger and more plentiful as we go forward.
We think that both the Homebuilding and the Rialto purchases will be benefited when the market turns around and starts to recover.
So overall we like the position that we're in right now with strong Homebuilding operations and a complementary Rialto program.
We look forward to reporting to you on our progress as we go forward.
Thanks for listening.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Thank you for standing by and welcome to Lennar's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
David Collins Director of Investor Relations for the reading of the forward-looking statement.
Today's conference call may include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to Lennar's future business and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements may include statements regarding Lennar's business financial condition results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar's estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could cause Lennar's actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar's annual report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Great.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us for our second quarter 2011 update.
As always I'm joined this morning by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; Diane Bessette our Vice President and Treasurer; and David Collins who just read the statement our Controller.
Additionally Rick Beckwitt our President; Jon Jaffe our Chief Operating Officer and Jeff Krasnoff Chief Executive Officer of our Rialto segment are here to participate as well.
I'm going to begin with some brief opening remarks about the current housing market in general.
Jon and Rick will discuss our homebuilding operations.
Jeff will update on Rialto's progress and Bruce will provide details on our numbers.
Then of course we'll open our phone lines to questions.
As always I'd like to request that in our Q&amp;A period everybody please limit to just one question and one follow-up so that we can be as fair as possible to everyone.
In the context of what continues to be a very challenging U.S.
housing market we are pleased to report our fifth consecutive quarter of profitability as we continue to position our company for future success.
While it's now well-documented that the expected spring selling season of 2011 simply did not materialize it is beginning to feel like the worst days of the housing market are getting behind us.
Although sales pace and price are still under pressure traffic trends have continued to improve and real traditional primary purchasers with the real desire to purchase are showing up recognizing the prices are low recognizing that interest rates are low and that this is an excellent time to purchase a home.
Make no mistake stabilization and recovery will continue to be a slow and rocky process as traffic and desire have not yet translated into strong actual sales.
These are though the first signs that repair of the market is upon us.
Sales remain constrained by available financing and confidence.
Today's ultraconservative home finance environment has been a limiting factor in the normalization of demand and confidence for both new and existing homes.
But as lenders begin to lend again to appropriate underwriting standards and they will demand will be unlocked and in turn increased sales and improved year-over-year comparisons together with positive press will create much-needed urgency and unlock consumer confidence in the housing sector.
At Lennar we've just completed our second quarter operations reviews with all of our Division Presidents.
We've gone through the operations and business plans of each of our divisions and reviewed the performance and position of each division and their respective market.
I find myself somewhat optimistic about the future of the housing market in general and for our business in particular.
In almost all of our divisions we are finding that there are pockets of activity that are actually strong and across our markets primary buyers are venturing out from a long cold winter to consider purchasing.
While the overall landscape remained somewhat troubling from a short-term macroeconomic perspective at Lennar we've remained profitable in the short-term.
We have sharpened our focus on our core Homebuilding business given the current economic conditions while we position for an ultimate recovery.
Driving profitability we have gotten a lot of components of our business working.
Our product research and reworked product offerings are working to compete favorably with the existing home market and foreclosures.
Our dramatically reduced cycle time is working to enable less reliance on standing inventories for sale.
Our intense focus on driving construction cost lower is working to enable value-oriented sales prices.
Our low inventory approach to sales and start is working to help maintain our industry-leading margins.
Our carefully managed overhead levels are working to drive comfortable net margin even at reduced volumes.
Our Everything's Included marketing platform is working to highlight our value-oriented offerings to our customers.
Our strategic land purchases leveraging our Rialto relationships are working to position us with low-cost land to drive higher margins.
And most importantly our extremely strong management team that has driven this company through the best and worst of times is working day and night to stay a step ahead of market movements.
We confirmed in our operations reviews that the controls and strategies that we've put in place over the past difficult years are working very well to enable us to remain profitable even at reduced volumes.
Jon and Rick will review some of these elements of our Homebuilding operations that are succeeding.
Additionally our Rialto program continues to complement our Homebuilding activity as it also adds to our overall profitability.
Rialto has continued to grow and Jeff will update you on this progress in just a minute.
All in all we are very comfortable with the position of our company.
We know that market conditions remain difficult.
We believe that our willingness to confront the reality of market conditions honestly and early has enabled our company to make the important and necessary adjustments to quickly pivot to profitability and to properly position for the future.
Let me turn over now to Jon.
Thank you Stuart and good morning.
We're very proud of the pre-impairment 19.1% gross margin and 5% operating margin we delivered in our second quarter.
I will speak to our company strategy on maximizing revenues and our intense focus on managing direct costs and overhead.
On the revenue side we are focused market-by-market on driving sales by zeroing in on today's home-buying consumer wants and needs.
We deliver value by targeting the right product and features.
Each of our divisions has redesigned floor plans square footages and features to address today's customer profile.
Additionally as Stuart has noted today and in past calls we have reignited Lennar's Everything's Included platform to highlight the energy-efficient technological and quality features that clearly differentiate our new homes as compared to the resale homes on the market.
In the area of energy efficiency which is a real differentiator when compared to used and foreclosed homes we're designing our homes to save customers around $1 000 per year on their electric bill compared to the typical existing home.
In some of our markets we have homeowners who experience monthly electric bills that average below $10.
We are also including home automation technology that allows our homeowners to control door locks lighting thermostats cameras and more through their Smart phone iPad or computer.
These today's technology features allow homeowners to enjoy their home in a way that previously either wasn't available or it's too expensive for them.
We believe this strategy is allowing us to maximize our sales and sales price by giving customers a reason to buy in the current difficult market environment.
On the cost side of the margin equation and at the same time as we are executing our Everything's Included strategy to include more features that appeal to today's customer we continue to drive down the direct cost of construction.
Our current average direct cost at homes are approximately $40 per square foot.
This is down over 30% from the 2006 peak and is a year-over-year reduction of over 5%.
We achieved this result through the hard work of extremely well-coordinated national and local purchasing teams that continually find the answers on how to deliver more value for less.
We've also stayed focused on bringing down our cycle time which is now down 27% from the peak.
This is accomplished by working hand-in-hand with our trade partners and designing and building more efficient value-engineered homes.
This effort has allowed us to control our fuel cost and effectively manage our inventory.
We have also maintained our intense management of SG&amp;A.
As market headwinds result in downward pressure on home prices we know that we have to [indiscernible] every day to reduce our cost structure.
Despite the cost associated with new community growth and today's overall lower absorption levels our year-over-year SG&amp;A spent for second quarter was flat at $97 million.
At 14.9% this represents a year-over-year increase of 100 basis points due to the decline in revenues of 6%.
To put our overhead focus into perspective at the peak of the market in 2006 SG&amp;A was $484 -- $484 million compared to our Q2 2011 run rate of $97 million.
As Stuart mentioned we have just completed our operations reviews with each of our Homebuilding divisions.
I can tell you that despite the reality of a disappointing spring sales season we have a team that is energized to execute on the strategy of maximizing sales revenue and the goal of maintaining industry-leading operating margins through the active management of reducing cost of sales.
Thank you.
I'd now like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jon.
During the quarter we continued to focus on acquiring or optioning new home sites that would have a positive impact on our bottom line.
We signed 25 new deals to purchase approximately 2 900 homesites.
About half of these deals were option contracts where we put up a small deposit and have a right to take down the land over time.
The remaining deals were cash purchases or distressed loan purchases where we subsequently foreclose on the land.
Our land spend during the quarter was approximately $109 million down about $50 million from the first quarter.
At the end of the quarter we owned or controlled approximately 108 000 homesites.
All of these new deals in the quarter were underwritten with extremely conservative underwriting assumptions.
They assumed no price increases and in some cases price declines slower decline in sales basis and where price to yield gross margins and IRRs exceeding 20%.
Jon and I review every transaction regardless of size and absolutely no money leaves this company without a thumbs-up from me Jon or Stuart.
Today we've been very pleased with the performance of our new communities even as the market has trended downward.
During the second quarter approximately 30% of our deliveries came from communities purchased or put other contract in the last 2 years.
Our gross margin on the closings in these communities was approximately 21% or about 200 basis points higher than the gross margin for the entire company in the second quarter.
From a geographic standpoint approximately 32% of the new deals are located in Florida; 20% in Maryland Virginia and the Carolinas; 18% in California; 13% in Texas but the remaining 17% spread throughout our other markets.
Our focus within these markets has been on desirable communities located in submarkets where people really want to live.
Whether the hook at schools spectacular amenities or commute time each one of these new deals has been selected with a very specific target buyer in mind.
In short we've stayed away from fringe locations or opportunities where price was the only driver.
Given our laser-type focus on land our product strategy has been a key driver to our success in these communities.
We have ensured that we have a cost-effective home design in hand before we buy land which has allowed us to streamline the time period between when we buy and when we're open for sales.
It's a true cash-on-cash focus.
We don't want to waste on chasing deals that fall outside of our floor plan universe.
This allows us to use realtime and proven cost information when we underwrite new deals.
As I've mentioned in the past we've been direct sourcing the lion's share of our deals and have tried to stay away from the broker-to-bid transactions.
This has allowed us to get in early buy and try out multiple deals at a time and negotiate much more favorable pricing in turns.
I have no doubt that we have the most talented and hard-working land team in the business.
This team working together with our Rialto associates has been particularly effective.
We've worked closely with the banks partnered with the government bought foreclosed properties tax certificates and community development bonds.
We think that some of the best opportunities are the more complicated deals.
and I'd like to thank our team for their hard work and dedication.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Jeff Krasnoff the CEO of our Rialto operations.
Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
As he does each quarter Bruce will shortly be reviewing the details behind our $9.8 million of operating earnings along with the results for the year and the rest of the company.
From an operating standpoint Rialto's real estate portfolio securities and investment management businesses continued to be very busy.
During the quarter our Rialto real estate fund in which the company had both a major investor and the manager closed on 2 new distressed real estate loan portfolio transactions representing $140 million of unpaid principal balance.
But we've also tied up another 8 new loan portfolios which subject to completion of closing conditions should add loans with an additional $350 million of unpaid principal balance.
We also closed on 2 new-issue commercial mortgage-backed securities transactions and have 2 in the pipeline representing a total of $320 million of securities backed by over $5.5 billion of newly underwritten cash flow in commercial real estate loans.
All told with the transactions we've already completed and those in our pipeline we estimate in the next 30 to 60 days the fund will have invested approximately $340 million in equity since its inception late last year to buy approximately $940 million in assets at a little over a 60% discount to par.
As a reminder in addition to the approximately $450 million of equity it has invested directly before the inception of the fund the company has committed $75 million to be invested through the fund and has the ability to co-invest in larger transactions.
The additional equity commitments that we expect to add in closings in the near future will be adjusting the company's ownership percentage in the approximately $370 million of commitments closed to date.
As we've mentioned in the past we've received fees for pursuing and money managing fund investments and we also earned incentive fees based on the funds performance.
Since we last reported to you along with other fixed income assets classes RMBS and CMBS have experienced a widening in spreads thereby increasing yields and reducing pricing.
As Bruce will walk through this had an impact on our mark-to-market this quarter for our investment in our PPIP fund with AllianceBernstein.
But it also increased the attractiveness of certain targeted securities.
Therefore for the first time in several quarters our PPIP fund has called additional capital in order to be prepared for attractive acquisition opportunities.
On the operations side we continue to build an outstanding team of professionals which has now grown to over 150 associates across the country.
Our team is currently evaluating an unusually large pipeline of opportunities primarily from financial institutions divesting troubled loans that are burdening the balance sheets.
Our already in-place managers are today working out loans dealing with similar underlying collateral on the same markets and in a number of cases the same borrowers.
If we're able to purchase assets at our pricing we're positioned to quickly and efficiently bring those assets right into our already in-place workout machine.
And because of a higher percentage of loans made to developers being able to efficiently incorporate the homebuilding team's unique view and expertise gives us another distinct advantage in our evaluation and maximization of value for these assets.
As part of this active collaboration the Homebuilding divisions have also been able to capture distressed opportunities from the same institutions we've been working with on the portfolios the mechanism to generate new communities at extremely attractive pricing.
Since we started this program this has led directly to the company's investment of almost $100 million to acquire thousands of extremely well-located homesites for use in the company's Homebuilding operations.
We remain very excited about our growing franchise our current position in the marketplace and the synergies with the rest of the Lennar team.
And we look forward to reporting to you on our progress in future quarters.
Thanks Jeff.
This is Bruce Gross.
Revenues from home sales decreased 6% to $650 million during the quarter and that was due to a 9% decrease in home deliveries excluding joint ventures which is partially offset by a 2% increase in average sales price to $245 000.
The average sales price by region is as follows: the East region $233 000 up 5%; the Central region $209 000 up 6%; Houston $231 000 up 7%; the West region $308 000 down 3%; and the other category $269 000 up 6%.
The changes in average sales price were primarily due to product mix during the quarter.
During this quarter we had only $3 million of Homebuilding community impairments which is the lowest quarterly Homebuilding impairment amount since we've started the impairment cycle 5 years ago.
Our gross margin on home sales pre-impairment was 19.9% as Jon mentioned and that compares with the same pre-impairment amounts of 21.4% in the prior year and 21.1% in the first quarter.
Gross margins were strongest in the East region this quarter.
The gross margins from our new communities continue to outperform but were partially offset by a modest increase in sales incentives on homes closed.
Sales incentives increased by $2 800 from the prior year to $33 900 an increase of approximately $800 from the first quarter.
As a result of the strong operating leverage noted in our sequential 150 basis point improvement in SG&amp;A to 14.9% our Homebuilding operating margin also pre-impairment also improved sequentially from the first quarter as it was up 30 basis points to 5%.
Other income net totaled $9.5 million in the second quarter of which $5.1 million was due to the hard work of our associates and resulting in a favorable resolution of a joint venture.
And the remainder was primarily management fees and interest income which you typically see each quarter.
Our Financial Services business segment generated operating earnings of $2.3 million for the quarter versus $13.7 million in the prior year.
The reduction was due to decreased volume in both our mortgage and title operations and the prior year results included a $5.1 million gain relating to the sale of a cable system.
Mortgage pretax income during the quarter was $5.3 million and that compares to $9.3 million in the prior year.
And our title company had a $2.2 million loss compared to a $400 000 loss in the prior year.
Our Rialto business segment generated operating earnings of $9.8 million and this number is net of $12.9 million of net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest.
The composition of Rialto's $9.8 million of operating earnings by type of investment is as follows: $9.5 million is a contribution from our 40% share of the FDIC portfolios; $11.9 million from non-FDIC portfolios; $2.4 million loss is from PPIP that's approximately $8.3 million of G&amp;A and other expenses which are net of management fee income.
The $9.5 million of contribution from the FDIC portfolios this quarter is primarily from accretable interest income collections from guarantors and gains upon foreclosure of REO.
The $11.0 million of contributions from the non-FDIC portfolios is comprised of accretable interest income sale of REO gains upon foreclosure of REO and a $4.7 million gain on the sale of the CMBS bond.
The $2.4 million loss during the quarter from our investment in PPIP as Jeff discussed is reported as the equity in earnings from unconsolidated entities.
And this loss is comprised of a $5.5 million unrealized loss due to the mark-to-market adjustment from the widening of spreads discussed by Jeff.
This was partially offset by $2.6 million of interest income in the PPIP.
At quarter end Rialto continued to generate cash.
They had $160 million in the diffusive cash account to retire debt and there was an additional $70 million of cash on Rialto's balance sheet.
Lennar's balance sheet continued to be strong and liquid at the end of the second quarter and our leverage remained low.
Our Homebuilding debt to total capital net of $945 million of cash was 44.9% at the end of the quarter.
And inventory excluding consolidated inventory not owned stayed flat at $3.9 billion.
Our backlog conversion ratio during the quarter increased to 138% as we remained focused on carefully managing our inventory levels.
This conversion ratio was higher than normal as a result of our successful focus on reducing our completed unsold home inventory count from a 1 059 at the end of the first quarter to 696 at the end of the second quarter.
We had 449 active communities at the end of the quarter.
And as a result of another profitable quarter we were able to continue to reduce our deferred tax asset reserve which now stands at $599 million.
Shareholders' equity increased to $2.65 billion with a book value per share of $14.18.
In conclusion we are pleased with our continuation at reporting quarterly profits.
And given the current market conditions we remain confident that 2011 will be another profitable year for the company.
And with that we'll turn it over for questions.
At this time we will now begin our formal question and answer session.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is coming from Dan Oppenheim of Crédit Suisse.
I was wondering if you can start off talking about the strategy in Homebuilding business? Touch about your focus on minimizing the level of specs there.
But if you look at the backlog conversion you'd see in that you've got a lot of homes there converting to sales pretty quickly.
How do you strive on terms of what you're doing to specs and how you're managing that process? So Dan with respect to managing the specs we're matching our sales in our construction pace.
This particular quarter we had about an extra 360 or so homes that we're able to close because they were completed and our strategy is to focus on those homes and keep that count as low as possible.
But from the standpoint of what we're starting in construction and Jon maybe you want to touch on this we're matching out with our sales base.
Sure.
We monitor the absorption community-by-community and accordingly set a start pace for that specific community.
Those things end up -- we experienced in today's market is that our biggest competitor is the existing home.
And the brokers particularly and the customers are comparing a finished home to our homes.
And the ability to have some homes that are near completion really allows us to compete more effectively with the existing home.
And of course our focus on cycle time also allows us to effectively control the fact we started some homes that aren't sold yet.
Great.
And the second question.
Wondering about the pipeline or transaction of Rialto business that's unusually large.
Any sense in terms of what you've been seeing in the past since you've been looking transactions in the pipeline? What end -- percent end the up closing? How realistic it looks to be in terms of say large volume here and the next couple of months? It's Stuart maybe Jeff will follow up.
But in terms of pipeline our pipeline percentage that end up closing it's been about 100%.
We're pretty much looking at a pipeline that we don't tie up unless we have done due diligence ahead of time.
And we have a pretty strong degree of certainty that we're going to close the deals that we've tied up.
In terms of the pipeline of activity that's out there there's no question that the market is really starting to put out a lot of product that has been pent-up and saved up inside of the lending institutions for some time.
So the activity is clearly getting pretty heavy right now.
We're underwriting a pipeline of new potential deals that is much larger than we've seen over the past quarters.
And we expect this activity to continue for sometime now.
Jeff? Yes.
No I'd say a large percentage then of what we're looking at are negotiated transactions.
And usually when we start going down a path we typically end up with the deal at the end of the day.
It was some give-and-take with the financial institutions.
In some cases we do if we think that it's going to be a very thinly bid transaction.
We may bid some transactions and there might be a few of those that don't get done because they don't get done at our price.
But for the most part the supply right now is overwhelming a number of qualified buyers really in the marketplace.
And at the end of the day the number of deals that are out there really enables us to be very selective about what we're buying and more importantly the price at which we are purchasing.
The next question is coming from Ivy Zelman of Zelman &amp; Associates.
We got a lot of questions from investors on is it better to be land light or have land given that the outlook seems pretty ominous right now by many? And also should you be a move up or entry level and seems to be a push to move up.
So realizing that's 2 questions in one.
If you can to help us frame your views of that.
And lastly I'll get my second question without getting back in queue.
Pricing.
Your view on what pricing does when you're underwriting ground do you think it's going to continue to go down in the next 12 months? Well on the land light versus land heavy side Ivy this is Rick.
We're being very opportunistic with regard to what we're putting under contract how we're underwriting it and when we're investing the dollars.
All we can really point to is what the numbers have been with regard to the investments.
Pretty much across-the-board we've invested in new opportunities that far exceed the gross margins in some of the legacy assets.
So from a cash investment and a return standpoint those things have been really money good.
As we look at the cycle and we look at the opportunities out there we have changed some focus at various times in different markets from some of the finished product that's available out there because some of that has been bid up to things that may be more busted deals to give us an opportunity for really outsized returns as we fix the issues that are out there.
Pricing we've seen pricing bounce around.
As I said in some of the prepared remarks when we underwrite these deals we underwrite them with multiple variables in mind.
We look at them on a base case as if everything is flat.
We look at them with declining sales prices declining absorption rates cost inflation.
Really we split it and we analyze it in multiple ways.
At the end of the day it needs to pass muster at the worst-case scenario based on absorptions based on price decline based on cost inflation and all of those type of variables.
And once it does that we make the investment decision.
Let me just add to that.
You asked about pricing assumptions relative to our underwriting.
We're buying a variety of types of properties these days.
Some of them are shorter term under a land-light kind of concept.
In those instances we are not making pricing assumptions to the upside or downside.
We're looking at normal market conditions.
We're coming out [Audio Gap] staying very close to the market.
We are probably more predisposed more towards move up right now.
But in longer-term land positions we're leaving ourselves a lot of flexibility.
I don't think that we can look at current market conditions as a proxy as for where the market is going to go over the next couple of years.
The next question is coming from Michael Rehaut JPMorgan Chase.
First question just on May.
In the press release you discussed that being up 30% year-over-year in terms of order so I was wondering if you could give us a sense of sales pace and also how pricing and incentive trends have been relative to -- sequentially relative to April? Just as -- just month-to-month how you've seen things trend? Sure Mike this is Bruce.
The sequential trend from April was pretty flat as you look at pricing and as you look at the sales incentive trend.
So we've hit somewhat of a stable point.
It was sequentially improving throughout the year and from April to May it's pretty flat.
And that flatness would then be also with regards to sales pace? Yes sales pace is about flat as well.
Okay.
Second question on the gross margin.
Still staying in that essentially 20% to 21% range and I think basically you said last quarter that the backlog gross margins were up approximately 20% -- at the 20% level.
So I guess the question is going forward to the next couple of quarters do you expect to remain essentially in that 20% to 21%? Or given the perhaps say increase from closings in new communities over to the extent that you can perhaps achieve some further benefits from lowered cost per square foot are there any things that might drive your expectations towards higher -- the higher end of that 20% to 21%? Or just how should we think about that going forward? Hey Mike this is Rick.
As I said last quarter I think the zip codes that you really should focus on is really 19% to 21%.
Because Jon and I every month every week are making pricing decisions with regard to market movements that are realtime.
Clearly the new communities have the ability to push the overall blended gross margin up to the higher end of that range but we have to react on a daily basis to the local market movements the traffic conditions and it's going to sort of move in that category.
And if you look at the guidance that we gave you last time we sort of came in right the middle of that curve.
Mike to your point about direct cost reduction.
We continue to look forward and expect we're going to have to continue to reduce cost structure in the current market environment knowing that price pressure can continue to move downward and so we're forward-thinking and forward-looking in terms of what's the next solution to deliver value and reduce cost.
The next question is coming from David Goldberg UBS.
My first question actually is something of a follow-up to Mike's question and I appreciate the details on the cycle times and the direct cost per square foot.
But I'm trying to get an idea of how you guys benchmark your efficiency and your purchasing relative to kind of your internal goals and your targets and also relative to what your competitors are doing? I'm just trying to get an idea coming to do what's left for you there in your minds? And how do you kind of -- as you think about it over time? How do you determine how well you're doing? It seems pretty impressive.
So? Well from a benchmark standpoint I think that we feel that we're doing the best job in the industry.
And we've got great people in the field.
We've got excellent purchasing folks.
We are construction superintendents.
Our builders out there are focused on keeping that house moving from the date we pour the slab until we give the keys to the buyer.
So cycle time is incredibly important in this company.
And how much further can we compress that time period? That's going to be a lot driven by the increased efficiency in the designs and some of the things that we're doing along those side.
From a cost perspective the purchasing perspective we're continuing to battle with some of the influence of the manufacturers are trying to push costs up.
But we've been very effective in keeping things down.
And what's going to be interesting is what happens when the cycle turns and how much of that cost increase that we can battle against.
But I think that when that happens we should be able to more of -- than offset that with price increases of a product.
At the end of the day I think that we've set no limits on ourselves as to how far we can drive cycle time down and cost down.
We think that there is room for marginal improvement.
As volumes go down everybody through the supply chain is under pressure.
And we keep that pressure applied.
We recognize that there's going to be some give-back as the market comes back.
But while the market has been trending lower we are looking for participation from the cost side of the equation to keep us in a steady profitable zone.
So we think that there will be more movement.
We know that there's pressure to the upside.
Everybody is trying to make a dollar here.
But while the market is moving down we think that we can make some more improvement.
Got it.
And then just my follow-up question here.
Interesting to hear about more type with the reinvigoration of Everything's Included.
I'm wondering if you can talk about -- you also talk about in your individual communities and individual markets building the product that meets the customer demand.
And I'm just trying to get a sense of how your Everything's Included product what is included differs market-to-market buyer segment to buyer segment? Do you find that people generally want the same things in those 3 markets and so you get to know purchasing power on more of a national basis in one of those products or is it kind of different market-to-market? Can you give us some color on that? Let's start by thinking about it this way and Jon will add to this.
Think of Everything's Included as kind of a 3-tiered program in today's world.
It's about an energy program.
It's about technologies modern technologies.
And it's about included features.
We are fully focused on energy savings as a differentiation mechanism from used and foreclosure homes.
That's our biggest competitor.
And it's the biggest area of vulnerability for that competitor.
New homes offer a better energy program and we're doing everything we can to enhance that and that's pretty much across-the-board.
The energy component of Everything's Included is something that -- it might vary somewhat market-to-market based on whether we can do solar in one market or wind loads in Florida and things like that.
But we're focused on the energy component.
Technology comes down to you wouldn't buy a car with roll-down windows.
We want to enhance the technology around our homes to where we're competing with that existing home market aggressively by enhancing the technology today's technology around homeownership.
That means keyless entry doors and switch-less lightning and stuff like that.
We think that we can enhance that program and that we're doing market-to-market.
The features component of our Everything's Included program is a highly researched highly market-focused component.
And that's the third leg of Everything's Included.
And there we do a lot of product research.
We are basically looking to deliver the home that our customer would select if they were going through the selection process.
And that means that our people in the field are doing a lot of product research to come up with the end solution for the homebuyer that they would choose if they were choosing it on their own.
So we're doing the work for them and that's very locally market-driven.
That was going to be my point.
It really starts with market research and it does lead us to different answers in different markets.
They're just different taste relative to style and likes from someone living in Florida to somebody living in Minneapolis to someone in Phoenix.
They tend to fall into common categories but the application and execution of that will definitely vary market-by-market.
Yes.
And it all comes down to market-by-market what do they want in that home what would they select on their own? And balancing that with what they can afford and putting that package together in the most dynamic way possible.
The next question is coming from Jade Rahmani KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Just on Rialto.
I wanted to find out has the timeline for deals coming the market due diligence spending or anything related to the process materially changed? The things that wouldn't change is you're looking at more and more negotiated transactions.
And then the follow-up would be I take it from your comments that based on what's expected to close in the next 60 days that the opportunity fund is fully invested.
Can you give the schedule of future commitments on this fund? And Lennar's incremental investment? And if you raise a follow-on fund of this size what do you think the timeline for the capital deployment would be on that? Well I'd say first off I think you hit it right.
I mean we're certainly doing a number of negotiated transactions and a number of them are would sort of repeat are repeat sort of sellers for us.
And that market it is growing.
We're trying to add new people to that program as time expands.
And as it relates to the equity I'd say that -- I mean we're still full in the market so I can't necessarily give you a lot of information on that other than the fact that we do expect to have continuing closings on commitments with for this fund before closing it up and starting to raise the next line.
Well just add to that.
I think that the field of opportunity has expanded.
There is a great desire on behalf of the sellers to end up with a transaction that actually closes.
There's a lot of noise out there a lot of participants in the market that are not experienced in this arena and so the certainty of close becomes a little bit more questionable with them.
There's a premium placed on groups like ours that have the ability to come in and in a credible way diligence the offering and come up with a deal that will actually close.
We bring that to the table.
That's a differentiation from how the deals had been over the past quarters.
I think we have an advantage that gets us in the door.
And it gives us an advantage in terms of putting together a program that we can purchase at attractive pricing.
In terms of our ability to invest we have invested the fund money very efficiently and effectively at what we think are very attractive returns.
We will continue to invest fund money as we go forward.
And we think that we are not going to be capital-constraint Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Just a clarification is there a maximum size the opportunity fund that you could disclose? And also how you think about Lennar's capital allocation to Rialto? Is there some limit to how much you would invest? Thanks a lot.
I think we've stated that in terms of this fund that Lennar's commitment is $75 million.
But it also has the opportunity if there are larger transactions as to co-invest side-by-side with the fund.
So we do have that.
I don't believe we've actually disclosed the total amount the maximum amount of the fund.
But on the face of it the first fund is $750 million.
And let me just add.
In terms of Lennar's investment we are investing capital through our Rialto fund and through our Rialto program.
The returns are really the primary driver behind how many dollars we will invest on the Rialto side versus land opportunities for the Homebuilding side.
Where we find outsized returns that's where the dollars will flow.
And as a company we remain opportunistic opportunistically focused on how our capital gets invested.
Next question? That is coming from Megan McGrath MKM Partners.
I wanted to follow up a little bit on the pricing environment and the incentives.
Wondering if you could give any more color on the increased incentives? Did they come in a particular time in the quarter for particular product? Was it to get rid of that spec mostly? Or do you think they'll kind of stay at this elevated level at least? Did you see that in June? On a percentage basis it stayed relatively flat throughout the quarter.
And as we've said in prior calls we use our inventory as a tool and we price to close to hit the pace of what the operation should achieve.
We haven't seen a dramatic change one way or the other in post the quarter.
This is Jon.
Now that -- if you look back the last 3 quarters it's really been relatively flat.
Like everything else it's very local and it does vary by market-by-market and what's happening within those regions and submarkets.
Great thanks.
And then just a little bit of switching topic but wanted to follow up with Jeff on your comments around that unusually large pipeline.
Any thought as to what's driving that on the part of the banks? Do you think it's coming under pressure? Do you think their outlook for real estate has one down? What do you think is increasing the pipeline so much? Well I think it's all of the above.
I think they're getting increased pressure from regulators.
I think that they're also -- there is also a lot -- there is also pretty significant fatigue that's set in in terms of some of the portfolios that they've been trying to work for some period of time.
And I think that right now they're looking at the marketplace and they're looking at the opportunity for buyers like us to be able to dispose of these assets or get them off their books.
And I think that all of those dynamics is sort of work together.
And on the other side of it in terms of the -- in terms of the number of investors there are still relatively few that have the kind of infrastructure that's required to be able to look at large portfolios that cover diverse geographic areas and property types and so on.
And as a result sort of the supply right now the way we see it is sort of overwhelmed the demand.
The next question is coming from Kenneth Zener of KeyBanc.
Hi this is Rodny Nacier on for Ken.
I wanted to clarify on the units on the construction.
How many units do you have finished and how many are under construction? And how does that compare to last quarter? We indicated that we have 696 that are completed unsold which compares to 1 059 last quarter.
And what's under construction both sold and unsold is approximately 3 700 versus just under 3 000 last quarter.
Okay.
And with 449 communities at the end of 2Q how many communities do you expect to have active at the end of 2011? We don't project that Rodny because it's too hard to predict how many communities would be falling off as well.
The number will increase because we're finding good opportunities and investing capital.
But we don't actually put a prediction out because it's too hard to project that.
The next question is coming from Nishu Sood Deutsche Bank.
This is actually Rob Hansen on for Nishu.
You briefly touched about -- touched on lending standards.
And I just wanted to get your thoughts on how tight they are.
And we've recently heard from one builder that said that for the first time in 3 years there's a slight easing in lending standards.
So I'm just wondering if you get your thoughts on that.
Well okay.
That kind of takes me a little bit by surprise that you're getting that feedback.
I think that the lending standards are pretty tight right now.
And even stated standards where you might find that a FICO score of 580 is prescribed the actual underwriting is probably solving to something in the 620 or 640 range with conservatism built-in given the fact that some of the rules are uncertain and some of the hold back requirements and requirements to almost guarantee loans that are being put in programs was out there.
It's our experience that there is a lot of pressure to maintain kind of an ultraconservative spend on kind of government-sponsored loans.
We think that that kind of a crimp in the demand that's naturally out there right now.
And it seems that over time there will be a form of loosening of that tightened credit standard.
When that will actually take place or how it will be effectuated is something that I don't think anybody can predict right now.
But I do think that financing is a big limiting factor for natural normalization of demand right now and it's an opportunity for the housing market as we look ahead.
An opportunity for the market to correct.
This is Jon.
As you think about it in every market of record affordability which typically brings out first-time buyers who weren't able to afford to purchase a home in better times.
And what we're seeing today for that first-time buyer the administrative hurdles of credit today make it very difficult.
And so that demand that is out there as Stuart noted it's very hard to convert into an national homeowner.
The next question is coming from Adam Rudiger Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but this one its's the first of those housekeeping.
If you could tell me on owned versus option lots and then had a question on SG&amp;A.
I would've expected probably I think a little bit less a sequential increase in SG&amp;A given with I guess is much more operating leverage there more of a kind of a fixed cost we're currently running at.
So I was wondering if you could comment on that and maybe if possible break out within the SG&amp;A.
What part of those expenses might have been attributed to new community openings? Let me give you the piece that is I'm going to say something controlled.
We had 108 000 total owned and controlled of which 91 000 was the owned piece during the quarter.
And as you're looking at SG&amp;A sequentially keep in mind that we've been opening at least I think it's around 50 communities or so per quarter.
And as part of that we do expense some of the cost of the models and grand openings before you have any deliveries.
So there is a piece of that that goes but I don't have the exact percentage per se but that's [Audio Gap] LLC</strong> We could assume that there could still be some additional cost running through there? And any idea that I think some of the builders have talked about being a somewhat of the fixed cost level right now? And you could -- you can increase volume without any corresponding increase in expenses is that potentially little bit inaccurate given that you have all the new community openings still? Well here is the way we look at SG&amp;A.
We think there is significant operating leverage in SG&amp;A.
And the formula that we've put out there is as we open a new community in an existing division the incremental SG&amp;A percentage attributable to new deliveries in that community is about 7%.
So we think as we go forward and we increase deliveries from this recent community openings there is operating leverage that will reduce the SG&amp;A percentage going forward.
And I think we'll take one more question.
The last question is coming from Stephen East Ticonderoga.
This is Paul Shobalfian [ph] on for Stephen.
Your orders have been trending down for several quarters now in Houston and I was wondering if you might be able to give a little bit of color on the reason behind that? Well this is Rick.
Houston continues to be a very tough market.
We've had some things go on in the market that are somewhat aberrational starting with the oil spill.
And stemming from that the curtailment of a lot of oil and gas spend given the activity that went on there.
In addition there was the Continental-United merger which was had a big impact on the employment base there.
And we're starting to see stabilization of what we've got going on in Houston.
From an income statement the division still operates on a profit for us.
And we're looking at over the next several quarters to see that turnaround.
We think our communities are very well located there.
There's no doubt in our mind that we're really outperforming the competition in that market.
It's just very noticeable when you had a very large division that we've broken out on individual line item go through a very tough market correction.
Okay.
And then your community count growth was a little bit lower than we were expecting this quarter.
And I guess that you've been opening roughly 50 communities a quarter.
Were there more closings close-outs this quarter? Yes there were several communities that came to their end either because we built through them or decided to walk away from them.
Benefiting from the options structure that we have with regards to those deals.
You will see through the balance of the year as things come on book and things move off.
We are very encouraged when we get to move through some of our asset base.
And so that -- we view that as a pretty good thing.
So the net increase is probably in line with what we should expect this quarter as far as community growth? Well as Bruce said what we're trying not to give you projections on community count.
The timing of when they open there's lots of variables.
But I think that the trajectory is towards the up side.
And that's what we've said for the last several quarters Great.
Well thank you everybody for joining us.
And we look forward to keeping you posted on our progress and reporting again next quarter.
Thank you.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Lennar's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
David Collins for the reading of the forward-looking statement.
Today's conference call may include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to Lennar's future business and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements may include statements regarding Lennar's business financial condition results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar's estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could cause Lennar's actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar's annual report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Okay good morning and thank you all for joining us for our third quarter 2011 update.
As always I'm joined this morning by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; Diane Bessette our Vice President and Treasurer; and David Collins our Controller.
Additionally Jeff Krasnoff Chief Executive Officer of our Rialto segment is here to participate as well.
Jon Jaffe our Chief Operating Officer; and Rick Beckwitt our President are available to participate by phone for the question-and-answer period they don't happen to be here in Miami today.
I'm going to begin with some brief remarks about the current housing market in general.
Jeff will update Rialto's progress and Bruce will provide detail on our numbers.
And then of course we'll open the phone line to your question.
As always I'd like to request that in our Q&amp;A period everyone please limit to just one question and one follow-up so that we can be as fair as possible to everybody.
In the context of what continues to be a challenging U.S.
housing market we're pleased to report our sixth consecutive quarter of profitability as we continue to position Lennar for future success.
As noted in our press release all of our business segments Homebuilding Financial Services and Rialto were profitable in the quarter in spite of significant challenges.
Bruce will review the numbers in a few minutes.
Throughout our third quarter we continued to see evidence that the consumer is beginning to return in earnest to the homebuilding market.
Although sales price and pace are still under pressure traffic trends have continued to improve and real traditional primary purchasers with a real desire to purchase are showing up.
The combination of home prices that have dropped to attractive levels across the country together with interest rates on 30-year loans that are at historic lows has made the prospect of home ownership both compelling and widely affordable.
In addition increases in rental rates that consumers are feeling and seeing in many markets are driving people to consider the stability of home ownership as it relates to housing costs over years.
Finally the millions of Americans that have either moved home found a roommate or otherwise postponed forming a new household are beginning to consider their living accommodations and options abound today and they are affordable.
Demand remains constrained however by the availability of financing and general consumer confidence.
Mortgage financing is still only available to the most creditworthy purchasers and an already skittish customer is being driven away from the purchase by a burdensome and invasive mortgage qualification process together with a mountain of paperwork and never-ending re-verifications.
There has been a clear overcorrection that has taken place in the lending market as the ability for buyers to actually get loans is limited at best.
The government remains the primary financing resource in the housing market.
FHA VA Fannie and Freddie are the primary drivers of the housing finance market but are constrained by government oversight and mandate that is risk adverse and primarily focused on the preservation of existing capital.
Additionally there is a prevailing desire in Washington to have the government exit the mortgage finance business.
This combination of drivers is shrinking available capital needed for demand to turn into actual sales.
We reviewed our last 18 months of FHA VA and Fannie and Freddie loans and found that the average FICO score was in the 700 range while the average rejection was in the 650 range.
Today's rigid risk matrix is severely limiting access to the market for the many customers who have a down payment have a job have acceptable credit and are good credit risks in a normalized environment.
And while there is of course virtue in being risk adverse the logical extension of where we are is that we make only one loan for $200 000 to Warren Buffett and we will never have a default.
Unfortunately we will also not have much of a housing market.
Loan limits for government agencies are set to be reduced on October 1 of this year and other actions continue to hamper the expansion of credit availability.
Traditional lenders are constrained by the threat of putbacks in an uncertain regulatory environment.
A private securities market has not reemerged to provide needed capital for finance and likely won't become a factor until the playing field of risk identification and the legal consequence of a loan and mortgage are resolved.
Initial Private Label securities are populated with loans that are of exceedingly high credit standards.
Today's ultraconservative home finance environment has been a limiting factor in the normalization of demand and confidence for both new and existing homes.
Free market forces are beginning to work the way they're supposed to but they are constrained.
Fortunately there is a growing awareness in the government today that the economy and jobs are not likely to recover without a recovery in housing.
I've spent a considerable amount of time recently with members of the government and am seeing a change in attitude and focus.
As home prices have continued to slide and foreclosures have risen there's a growing awareness that restricting credit at this time is not prudent.
Policies to date have not worked and we're starting to see the government reach out to a broad spectrum of industry thinkers for ideas and information on how to stabilize and stimulate housing.
It seems that this is part of a process.
It is slow and frustrating for sure but trial and error will ultimately give way to the right answers.
I believe that the lending log jam will ultimately be unlocked.
And as lenders begin to lend again to appropriate underwriting standards and they will demand will be unlocked and in turn increased sales together with positive press will create much-needed urgency and unlock consumer confidence in the housing sector.
While the market seeks equilibrium at Lennar we remained focused on maintaining profitability at current levels of operation.
We have sharpened our focus on our core Homebuilding business given the current economic conditions while we position for an ultimate recovery.
We've just completed our third quarter operations reviews with our regional presidents.
Rick and Jon have gone through the operations and business plans of each of our divisions and reviewed the performance and position of each division and their respective markets.
We remain optimistic about the future of the housing market in general and about our business in particular.
In almost all of our divisions we're continuing to find that there are pockets of activity that are strong and we've continued to make strategic purchases of new land and communities in areas that continue to produce strong margins for our homebuilding operations.
These purchases are holding us in good stead today and are preparing us for even better performance as market conditions improve.
In order to drive profitability in current market conditions we've gotten each of the most important components of our operating business working well and efficiently.
Our product research and reworked product offerings are enabling us to compete favorably with the existing home market and foreclosures as they are our biggest competitors in today's market.
Our efficient cycle time enables us to be less reliant on standing inventories for sale and our careful negotiation of construction costs is helping us drive value-oriented sales prices which are required for sales in these market conditions.
Our low inventory approach to sales and starts is working to help maintain our industry-leading margins and our carefully managed overhead levels are in line with our current volume and are working to drive a positive net margin.
Our Lennar's Everything's Included marketing platform is highlighting our value-oriented offerings to our customers and our strategic land purchasers driven in large part by leveraging our Rialto relationships are working to position us with low-cost lands to drive higher margins.
And of course most importantly our extremely strong management team and associates that have driven this company through the best and the worst of times continue to be the driving force that keeps our company ahead of the market and positioned for success.
Alongside Homebuilding Lennar's Financial Services segment continued to improve its operational performance as well.
Just as our Homebuilding operations have right-sized to current volume our Financial Services group has worked hard to trim overhead in order to contribute profitably at today's volumes.
Similarly an increase in volume in the Homebuilding segment will translate into strong operational leverage for our Financial Services segment as well.
And Bruce will give you some additional detail on the Financial Services segment.
Our Rialto program continues to complement our Homebuilding and Financial Services activity as it also adds to our overall profitability.
Except for the mark-to-market adjustment reported in the PPIP program this quarter Rialto continues to show very strong operational performance and profitability as we continue to build that program.
In the third quarter we continued to add to our investment pool by purchasing approximately $380 million of assets or approximately $170 million of equity primarily through our Rialto opportunity fund.
Additionally we've expanded the size of that fund from approximately $370 million last quarter -- reported last quarter to almost $600 million including at closing last week.
This affords us a great deal of capital to pursue the many opportunities that exists in today's distressed markets.
Rialto has continued to grow and Jeff will update you on that progress in a minute.
All in all we're very comfortable with our current position the current position of Lennar today.
We know that market conditions remain difficult and we do not believe that there's a silver bullet quick fix out there.
Accordingly we’ve positioned ourselves to remain profitable while the market corrects and positioned to benefit from strong operational leverage when the market starts to improve.
Our willingness to confront the reality of market conditions honestly and early has enabled our company to make the necessary adjustments to get to profitability in the short term while we strategically position our company for future success.
Jeff? Thanks Stuart and good morning everyone.
Before Bruce reviews the details behind Rialto's $5.7 million of operating earnings along with the results of the rest of the company there are a few areas that might be helpful to touch on to give a little bit more perspective on Rialto.
The economic turmoil and wild market swings in recent months have not altered Rialto's investment thesis and if anything has strengthened our belief that banks and other financial solutions must push to clear hundreds of billions of dollars of distressed real estate assets from their books in order for the system to return to financial health.
Therefore we believe that the opportunity to purchase distressed assets is as strong if not stronger than ever.
And we remain focused on evaluating and if we can continue to price advantageously acquiring distressed portfolios and other real estate assets through our Rialto real estate fund.
Market volatility has also been responsible for preventing us from having our most profitable quarter yet as a result of the $10.1 million unrealized loss related to our share of the mark-to-market on the mortgage-backed securities in our PPIP fund.
However those marks as required by U.S.
Treasury reflect more of the general sentiment in the marketplace related to fixed income assets.
We've not changed our view of the resilient underlying cash flows that we use to underwrite and price our PPIP investments.
In fact to date we've recognized approximately $20 million in interest income and fees related to our $68 million investment in and management of that fund.
As Stuart mentioned we've expanded the amount of outside capital to work side-by-side with our $75 million now that we have a total of approximately $600 million of equity committed to our Rialto real estate fund.
Based on our current and anticipated investments we believe the fund will not only help to enhance the company's returns and give us access to transactions that we might not otherwise be able to invest in but also will be an important building block for us to develop a first-class investment management business.
The fund has now been able to acquire or tie up a total of 17 different negotiated transactions exclusive of those we're in a process of adding to the fourth quarter pipeline.
We've invested over $300 million of fund equity to date to acquire almost $1 billion of unpaid principal balance for about $0.37 on the dollar.
On the operations side we continue to build an outstanding team of professionals which has now grown to approximately 175 associates across the country involved in transaction sourcing and due diligence loan workout property management development and sales investment management and finance accounting and administration.
We've been hard at work adding value to assets since we closed our first 2 structure transactions with the FDIC in April of – well we started in April of last year.
In those 2 transactions alone we've now collected almost $350 million of cash and have been up to the fees [ph] almost 1/3 of the outstanding $627 million of FDIC seller financing.
And while it's still early in the life cycle of these 2 portfolios resolutions to date have averaged approximately $0.80 on the dollar.
Our managers have been working out loans and dealing with a variety of underlying collateral including residential communities and land shopping centers office buildings hotels and industrial buildings in micromarkets across the country and with many borrowers that we've dealt with before.
As a result we have up-to-date proprietary information about how assets are currently being resolved which is extremely helpful when pricing new transactions.
And because of the high percentage of loans made to developers being able to efficiently incorporate the Lennar homebuilding team's unique view and expertise gives us another distinct advantage in our evaluation and maximization of value for these assets.
And as part of this active collaboration the Homebuilding divisions continue to capture distressed opportunities from the same institutions we've been working with on the portfolios providing a great mechanism to generate new communities at extremely attractive pricing.
In addition when we do purchase assets at our pricing we're positioned to very quickly and efficiently bring those assets right into our already in-place workout machine.
So all in all we remain very excited about the Rialto franchise our current position in the marketplace and the synergies with the rest of the Lennar team.
And we look forward to reporting to you our progress in future quarters.
Thank you.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
This is Bruce.
I will review the results in all 3 segments starting with our Homebuilding segment.
Revenues from home sales were $700 million which is consistent with the prior year's quarter.
Home deliveries excluding joint ventures decreased 3% offset by a 3% increase in average sales price to $247 000.
The average sales price by region is as follows: The East region was $233 000 up 9%; Central $223 000 up 2%; Houston $229 000 up 3%; West $303 000 down 2%; and the Other region $268 000 down 2%.
Our gross margins on home sales was 21.1% in the third quarter which is consistent with the prior year's gross margin percentage.
However it improved 170 basis points sequentially from the second quarter of 2011.
This margin improvement is largely attributable to the successful results from investments and communities purchased since 2009.
These communities have outperformed the company average gross margin percentage by over 200 basis points.
Additionally as Stuart mentioned our efficient Everything's Included program and continued product reengineering also contributed to the strong gross margins.
The gross margins were strongest in the East and West regions this quarter.
Sales incentives increased by $3 000 from the prior year's quarter to $33 600 however decreased approximately $300 sequentially from the second quarter.
Gross margins were benefited by 120 basis points relating to changes in cost to complete estimates for closeout communities which was offset by valuation adjustments that impacted the gross margin percentage by about 130 basis points.
The benefit from the cost to complete in these closeout communities were primarily related to reimbursables received from development districts.
Our SG&amp;A percentage increased 40 basis points from the prior year however improved 60 basis points sequentially from the second quarter of this year.
As a result of the strong gross margin percentages and improvements in SG&amp;A our Homebuilding operating margins improved 240 basis points sequentially from the second quarter to 6.8%.
We purchased approximately 3 200 well-located home sites in the third quarter totaling approximately $182 million.
Additionally we purchased $66 million of banknotes that are secured by real estate in A+ locations.
Although we continue to invest in new communities and we opened 29 new well-positioned communities this quarter we had approximately 50 communities closing out.
As a result our active community count which moves around from quarter-to-quarter was reduced to 428 communities at quarter-end.
In addition to new orders reaching the highest level in 5 years other than the tax credit period in early 2010 our homes in backlog at the end of the quarter increased to the highest level in 3 years.
Our cancellation rate for the quarter was 20% which is still at the low end of our -- what we would call our normal range.
Our Financial Services business segment generated operating earnings of $8 million versus $6.8 million in the prior year.
Mortgage pretax income was $7.4 million versus $7.0 million in the prior year.
During the quarter we successfully entered into a global settlement with one of the 3 large banks that purchased the vast majority of our mortgage originations.
This settlement was within the accrued liability on our books for potential mortgage put-back exposure and covers all potential claims on loans originated before 2009.
We are comfortable that the remaining mortgage put-back liability on our books is adequate.
Our title company generated $1.3 million of profit versus approximately breakeven in the prior year.
They returned to profitability by implementing additional cost savings initiatives throughout the quarter.
Our Rialto business segment generated operating earnings totaling $5.7 million and this number is net of $6.1 million of net earnings attributable to non-controlling interest.
The composition of Rialto's $5.7 million of operating earnings by type of investment is as follows: $5.3 million of contribution came from our 40% share of the FDIC portfolios; $11.8 million from non-FDIC portfolios; as Jeff mentioned we had a loss in PPIP it totaled $7.6 million; and $1.4 million as a new contribution from the Rialto real estate fund.
These numbers are less approximately $5.2 million of G&amp;A and other expenses which are net of management fees and reimbursements of $5.3 million.
The contribution from the FDIC portfolios of $5.3 million and the $11.8 million of contribution from the non-FDIC portfolios this quarter are primarily from accretable interest income collections from guarantors sale of REO and gains upon foreclosures of REO all net of REO expenses.
The PPIP loss for the quarter is comprised of $10.1 million of unrealized loss due to mark-to-market adjustments from the widening spreads discussed by Jeff partially offset by $2.5 million of interest income.
Our 15% interest in the Rialto real estate fund generated approximately $1.4 million of profits which is in addition to management fees highlighted above.
At quarter-end there was already $190 million in the defeasance cash account to retire debt in the FDIC portfolio.
Additionally there was $70 million of cash on Rialto's balance sheet.
The success of the Rialto real estate fund has enabled us to grow Rialto using third-party capital.
During the quarter the company didn't invest any new capital in the Rialto segment except for $35 million representing our share of the Rialto fund commitments.
In the third quarter we continued to maintain a strong liquid balance sheet.
Our leverage remained low as our Homebuilding debt to total capital net of the $800 million of cash was 46.6% at the end of Q3.
Inventory excluding consolidated inventory not owned stayed flat at $3.9 billion.
Shareholders’ equity increased to $2.7 billion with the book value per share amounting to $14.28.
This book value per share does not include our fully reserved Deferred Tax Asset which is currently at $593 million or $3.17 per outstanding share.
In conclusion we are pleased with our continued reporting of quarterly profits.
And given current market conditions we remain confident that we will remain profitable in our fourth quarter and for all of 2011.
With that we will open it up for questions.
Our first question is coming from Alan Ratner of Zelman Associates.
Research Division</strong> Stuart I was hoping to just expand on your comments which were pretty encouraging about the traffic that you've been seeing improving lately.
And that certainly seems counter to what we're hearing from a lot of the other macro data points whether it's consumer confidence fading or the stock market continuing to languish here.
So was curious if that's something that has continued through August which is kind of a meat of the I guess the economic turmoil we've seen and into September? Or if that was kind of more in the first part of the quarter? And maybe you did see some impact from what we're seeing in the stock market recently? Well listen let me say generally the answer is we're still seeing building strength in terms of people coming in looking and having an in-earnest desire to be a purchaser.
But given the economic turmoil it's certainly kind of a rocky ground right now.
But I think that the trend is generally in the upward direction.
I think that market forces are working the way they're supposed to in that these low prices and low interest rates are really piquing peoples' interest and getting them to think about the long-term cost of their living conditions.
Rental rates going up is getting people thinking about the value of the 30-year fixed rate mortgage particularly at today's interest rates.
And we're clearly seeing people come in that are rethinking the home purchase opportunity.
Let me just have Rick or Jon weight in on that.
I apologize we're not in the same room so either one.
A little bit -- this is Rick.
As we got to the August the month of August in the quarter we saw a little bit of a slowdown on a year-over-year basis because of the volatility in the markets.
But that's just in conversion.
But traffic has been strong and continues to be pretty upbeat.
Go ahead Jon.
As you see rental rates push up which we've seen in all the markets that we're in we're definitely seeing more of our consumer come out and realize the value of today's product offering.
And I think that's what Stuart was speaking to in terms of those positive trends and that's against the forces of both the economic news and the credit environment we're in we are seeing a pique in interest.
Great.
And Bruce just a follow-up on the disclosure you gave about the settlement on the putbacks what was the cash impact on that from the quarter or is that something that you're going to be paying out in the fourth quarter? And is there anything in the works for I guess the other 2 large banks that bought the bulk of your mortgages? So you will see when we file our Q you'll see that our liability has come down from about $9.9 million to about $6.8 million or so so just over $3 million for one of those 3 majors.
And we're talking to the others as well.
And we'll keep you posted on that.
But that cash did go out during the third quarter.
Was this one just directionally was this the largest of the 3 the smallest of the 3? Well let's put it -- we have a confidentiality settlement agreement.
So let's leave it at it's one of the 3 majors that were out there.
But again we've really vetted our reserve that we have out there.
We think that we reserved adequately and whether we settle on a global basis or not we're still very comfortable with the remaining just under $7 million that we had reserved for these putbacks.
And just to your question we are having active discussions with the others.
And we feel pretty good that we'll be able to resolve this comfortably.
The next question is coming from Stephen Kim of Barclays Capital.
So congratulations on the homebuilding side; I’d love to ask you some questions there.
But let me start with if I can with Rialto.
It looks to us like in the Rialto segment the -- your REO gains were probably running about half of where they were the last couple of quarters I just want to confirm that that's true.
And if so what is the primary driver for that? Yes the Rialto gains were driven primarily by the category of -- in REO there's gains upon foreclosures Steve there's collections from some of the borrowers.
There's some sale of REO.
And those are net of REO expenses.
Right.
Yes and some of those expenses as we've taken more real estate in some of the expenses have continued to ramp up as you bring some of those assets on board and bring the assets up to snuff or you pay the property taxes or whatever the case might be.
And it's also a mix too of which assets might have come in that month.
Okay.
So did you have a -- I know you guys don't account for or you don't assume you're going to get any collections from the borrowers.
But last quarter I think you did.
Did you guys have any of that kind of benefit in the quarter? Yes yes we did.
Yes we are continuing to collect from the borrowers even after the real estate has been taken in.
Our next question is coming from Dan Ippenheimer (sic) [Dan Oppenheim] of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Stuart early on you were talking about the tough mortgage environment with a greater understanding and number the government in terms of just challenges.
Are you expecting any real changes from government potentially easing of mortgage terms? I guess we wouldn't -- aren't -- weren't expecting so much along those lines but I'm curious to hear your thoughts there.
I will tell you Dan it's hard to handicap.
All I can tell you is that the discussions that are taking place are with piqued interest.
There's a lot of attention being paid to housing thinkers and leaders.
There's a lot of receptivity to some rethinking of government’s pullback from FHA VA Fannie and Freddie.
Even with the pending reduction in loan limits there are active discussions right now as to whether or not October 1 should come and go and see those loan limits reduced.
And I can't handicap whether something will change before then or not.
But it is interesting to watch the dialogue.
People are getting concerned particularly within the election cycle that a continued slide in home prices and increase in foreclosure as we've been seeing will reflect badly frankly on both parties.
And I think that there is an appetite to find a way to stabilize.
There are some that believe that the private sector is the only answer and the right answer.
But that is a growing minority meaning it used to be the majority of people felt that way.
I don't know how to handicap it but my sense is that the government is going to find a way to loosen some of the lending standards that have gotten so oppressively difficult.
And I think that the first answer in credit is going to come from the government.
And then ultimately we'll see some regulatory certainty creep in to enable a private solution to take shape.
But I do feel that the government is going to come around to finding a way to get the lending markets working again.
The next question is coming from Michael Rehaut JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question it was helpful to discuss the community count during the quarter and I was wondering if you could just remind us what that impact was in terms of average community count open on a year-over-year basis for 3Q '11 over 3Q '10? And going forward over the next few quarters do you expect community count to resume its increase? Let me answer Mike your first question.
I don't have an average but again let me remind everybody the way we define active community count is 5 or more remaining to sell in a community.
We started the quarter with 449 we ended with 428.
In the prior year we ended with approximately 448 and we started with a lower number.
I don't have an exact average for you however.
As in the past we didn't report community count for a while because it's always a little confusing.
You have some communities finishing up at a moment in time and some starting.
We do expect because we're investing in communities that we're excited about that the overall community count will increase.
But we can never anticipate exactly how many fall off in any quarter that's why we don't give a projection as you look forward.
Hopefully that's helpful.
Research Division</strong> No that is helpful.
The second question just looking at the gross margins it was helpful to explain the cost to complete benefit.
Just wanted to clarify and make sure that that's more of a -- what you'd consider a one-time benefit.
And also kind of looking forward the -- do you expect a higher contribution from the newer communities that you've purchased or do you see the 19% to 21% range or 20% to 21% range that you've exhibited in the last several quarters to continue? Sure.
The range that we've put out there previously 19% to 21% when you strip out the -- and I would call it a nonrecurring benefit of 120 basis points relating to those closeout communities.
We ended up at the high end of the range.
But I think it's fair to say that 19% to 21% is still the range that we look towards same as we said last quarter.
As far as the percentage of new communities that are contributing to our deliveries it's in the high 30s it's about 39% of our deliveries are coming from the new communities.
We expect that that percentage continuing to gradually increase each quarter so expect that number to continue to grow.
And we're seeing about 200-plus basis points gross margin above the company average from those newer communities.
Let me just invite Rick or Jon to weigh in on community count and margin from new communities.
Yes this is Rick.
As Bruce said we're getting tremendously strong margins in the new areas.
A lot of these communities were -- have been around for a while and new communities could be something that's been open for let's say 18 months.
Depending on the size of the community that community could have been closed out because some of these deals came in through the TOUSA deal.
But generally speaking the underwriting standards that we've had for the new communities are in the 20%-plus gross margin area; high high IRRs and they perform extremely well.
As the markets have stabilized it's allowed us to bring into production some of the older assets and those are starting to get some traction as well.
The next question is coming from David Goldberg of UBS.
Research Division</strong> First question Stuart you made a comment in the opening remarks and if I heard it correctly it was that the average FICO score of your FHA-approved loans was in the 700s and there were a number of rejections I think you maybe said the average rejection was at a 640 or 650 FICO.
And I'm wondering if we should take from that that banks are tightening – FHA-approved lenders are tightening standards further from kind of the 640 to 650 range or maybe there was something else that was going on in those loan applications that caused them to get rejected? I'm just trying to get more color on that.
Yes.
That's a good question David.
Anytime you look at a group of loans there are so many different elements that define the approvability of a loan and isolating just the FICO store doesn't tell the whole story.
But generally speaking the answer is that there has been a tightening.
It has been gradual and it has been continuing.
And it's coming frankly both from FHA VA and being distinct from Fannie and Freddie and from the FHFA regulator who oversees Fannie and Freddie as well.
And then the banks have overlaid their own credit tightening.
So the answer is there has been a tendency to continue to tighten and the rejection which we've seen at about 20% of people who have a deposit are ready and willing have a good FICO score in the 650 range just is really evidence that the market is really tough that the lending standards have really constrained demand and maybe gone too far.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Maybe we could stay on the mortgage market for a follow-up and thank you for that color it's very helpful.
Stuart you're talking about private lenders and the private lender market eventually reemerging.
And I'm trying to get an idea do you think this is more a question of lenders private lenders working through the REO they already own? Or is this more of an indemnification from putbacks is it Dodd-Frank kind of QRM QM? What you think is kind of the linchpin for getting more private lender activity back into the market? Well I think that as it relates to the legacy assets most of the private lenders have marked their assets and -- at least on the residential side.
And that's less of a contributing factor.
I think that the dominant factors are the putback risk of the lawsuits the risk retention rules and the Dodd-Frank rules that are not yet clarified.
The lenders are dealing with a complicated landscape that is also in part defined by the FDIC regulator coming in and looking at their book of business and being either critical of what falls in or what falls out to their capital requirements.
So it's a whole -- it's a group of tentacles of problems that are kind of dragging the traditional lenders away from any kind of aggressive role in the lending environment.
And I know that there’s a general sense that hey it's good not be an aggressive lender it's good to be risk adverse and stuff like that.
But the question is are we going to have a lending market where people can get loans for homes or are we going to pullback so dramatically that we limit demand and the market can't correct itself? There's a balance there.
And the private market isn't ready to make that first step.
It's probably going to have to come from the government.
The next question is coming from Mr.
Josh Levin of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Stuart the Obama administration is mulling over an idea to have the GSEs partner with the private sector and perhaps rent out the GSE’s inventory of foreclosed homes.
Given how opportunistic you and Rialto have been is this an avenue that Rialto might go down? Well we -- it's a possible avenue.
We've talked about it and we've articulated some positions with people in the government who are thinking about this avenue.
It's again something that as more color and definition comes out as to what the opportunity looks like we will certainly be considering whether we deploy Rialto assets in that direction.
In terms of whether it's a good idea or a bad idea for the economy we're a supporter of this and many other initiatives that are focused on bringing supply and demand in balance.
So with the legacy portfolios of Fannie Freddie FHA VA and the backlog of homes that they own it certainly is a good way to drive some income to the government.
So we'll just have to see what happens and see how we can participate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On a separate note Bruce it looks like you burned about $145 million of cash during the quarter.
I mean burn is a wrong word but what was the reason and what was the real use of cash during the quarter? Yes.
So almost all of that Josh was related to 2 things: acquisitions of new communities again these are well-located communities that we're excited about; and then other half is the purchase of some of the banknotes that I mentioned a little earlier that again are secured by what we would call A+ locations.
So we think it's appropriate as we're very efficient with managing our cash.
Yet Rialto that's recycling cash most of their investments are coming from third-party capital.
This quarter the only investment we made in Rialto was related to our contribution to the fund.
On the Homebuilding side our cycle time is efficient.
Our Everything's Included program we're recycling capital there as well.
So really the change in cash is really focused on new opportunities that we're excited about.
Yes and let me just say Josh I'm happy that you corrected that vocabulary misstep.
This is anything but burning cash.
We're really pretty enthusiastic about the deployment of capital to grow the future of our business.
We think that we're investing our capital right now in primarily the Homebuilding business.
Rialto is self-sustaining at this point.
And we think that the opportunities that we're investing in are -- we know that they're contributing to current profitability but we're perhaps most enthusiastic about what these investments mean for the future.
And we've been very creative in the way that we both access and the way we've structured these investments.
We think they're going to hold us in good stead in the years to come.
The next question is coming from Steve Stelmach of FBR.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned strategic land acquisitions and sort of dovetails with the prior questions to what extent are land purchases today influenced by loan level pricing adjustments by the GSEs? Or do you simply look beyond that for a day where financing overall just gets better? In other words are you avoiding some markets that are subject to loan level pricing adjustments where the borrower simply just can't get the financing? This is Rick.
I don't think we're avoiding markets.
We may be steering away from various price points because of the difficulty of the borrower to get financed at certain levels.
Research Division</strong> Okay but it’s not dissuading you from any particular markets okay.
And then secondly on Rialto I believe you mentioned selling some assets at FDIC assets at $0.80 on the dollar.
To what extent is that low-hanging fruit? In other words the resolutions reflect the things that are relatively easy to sell versus maybe just mix shift and perhaps timing? Yes.
Again that's over the first 18 months.
But to a large degree it's very early in the cycle.
So yes we do have a lot more assets to work through.
But we're feeling very good early on in terms of where we are with the portfolio.
And additionally I'd say that there's very little in the way of low hanging fruit in these portfolios.
It's distress is distressed because it is distressed.
And I think that across the board you're going to see a pretty steady resolution pattern.
Some of the first resolutions have been some of the most difficult.
So I think you can expect to see some consistency.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So as shouldn't see some significant changes in the economics going forward? You feel pretty good about the value that you’ll monetize going forward? Yes I think that as with anything in today's world there can be some choppiness.
But by and large our program of resolution is a program of process.
And it's a process that is carefully laid out.
It takes time but ultimately leads in a carefully constructed direction.
I think that process will work on -- across the portfolio.
The next question is coming from Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the cash flow the cash position.
Clearly you folks have a lot of investment opportunities ahead as the housing market continues to recover and obviously on the Rialto side as well.
So given the significant increase in stress in the credit markets I just wanted to get a sense of your thinking on your cash position and how low would you be willing to run your cash balance and financing strategies for that growth? As we were saying a minute ago Nishu we think given our efficiency that it's appropriate to invest some of that capital in some of these great opportunities that we're seeing.
So we think there's a range of probably $300 million to $500 million of cash that we'd want to keep on the balance sheet in any one quarter and of course that's dependent on things like maturing debt and the like.
But we've done a nice job of pushing out debt maturities and we'll continue to do that.
So with that assumption we think somewhere in the $300 million to $500 million range is probably about the right level.
Yes let me just add to that.
Look I think Diane does an incredible job of keeping us focused 3 4 5 quarters ahead of where we are.
Our cash management program is really carefully orchestrated.
And we're constantly looking at how we're operating our businesses in terms of cash coming in cash going out.
As we've noted Rialto which has been a question mark for a lot of people to how many dollars we'd invest and everything.
It's really become self-sustaining the Rialto operating or opportunity fund has really become the primary investment reservoir for Rialto.
And that affords us a great opportunity to be a participant in the market but still holding our cash position steady for the overall company.
On the Homebuilding side given our cycle time and our focus on operational excellence we're really bringing in a lot of cash from the sale of homes from the underlying land relative to those sales and profitability and redeploying that capital.
And while we are deploying excess capital into the Homebuilding side it's on a very carefully constructed basis.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That’s very helpful.
And second question I wanted to ask was you -- and a couple people have asked about you mentioned the slow return of some normality and some improvement in demand.
So just wondering the 11% order year-over-year order comp especially against the very very weak period post the tax credit last year doesn’t seem as strong as it might have been.
Now of course I have to contrast that with your gross margin which was very strong.
So maybe this quarter you chose to harvest more of the demand on the margin side holding tight on pricing.
I was just wondering if you could give us your thoughts on that and on the trade-off and what you're seeing out there and how you’re managing it? Well this is Rick.
We're constantly adjusting the pace of sales with the ability to increase pricing in the communities that we're selling homes in.
On a longer-term basis we get more upside by pushing pricing up and pushing volume because it allows us to increase margins and does wonderful things for some of our older communities with regard to increasing appraisals.
Each one of the communities has their own business model.
And as such we may be doing one thing in one community on a volume basis and another thing in another community based on sales price.
This is Jon.
I would add to that that across the country-wide it varies from market to market slightly.
Most markets are performing at about 1/2 a sale a week per community.
And I think the reality is there's not a lot the homebuilding industry can do to change that level of absorption.
So we stay very focused on maintaining the margin and maintaining that level of absorption which is consistent with what's going on in the overall environment.
And that keeps us really focused on that efficiency that you've heard us talk about on managing our costs and our cycle time so that we can really cycle the cash keep margins up but be realistic about where absorptions are occurring in the current economic environment.
The next question is coming from Jade Rahmani of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question on Rialto can you give any color on how the PPIP mark-to-market loss was distributed through the quarter? Since this quarter does include the month of June where we saw a lot of volatility in MBS prices was the bulk of the decline in that month? And how have things fared in July August and also since the calendar quarter end? Well in terms of which months in the quarter basically June and August were the 2 large down months.
Actually August was down more than June was.
The month of July was relatively flat.
In terms of comments about this quarter I think it's a little bit too early at this stage of the game to kind of give you any kind of guidance as to where we are in terms of marks this quarter so far.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And would you mind giving some measure of the magnitude of performance decline you saw in June and August? The percentage price decline in CMBS or non-agency RMBS? Actually I don't have that percentage handy.
I think August was down somewhere in the 5% to 5.5% range something like that.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And your comments indicated that the mark was based on more like general industry trends rather than underlying cash flow performance on the securities.
So are these securities marked merely based on indices and is that really what drove the mark-to-market? Yes it's more based on indices than anything else because there really have been very -- relatively few trades particularly of the securities that we own under PPIP.
So it's really been more based upon how the rest of the RMBS and CMBS market have traded and how fixed income in general has traded and not so much a lot of data points on specific bonds.
And our cash flows have remained consistent.
Right and cash flows have remained consistent in terms of how we underwrote versus what we're looking at today.
The last question is coming from Adam Rudiger of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk about the new communities a little bit more.
You said that on average about 200 basis points outperformance in the gross margin side.
I was wondering if you’ve seen a difference between timing say the communities you opened -- you've acquired during the last 2 years and I'm asking that from the perspective as it seems that some builders got too aggressive in bidding for land in the beginning of last year and some of those communities are underperforming.
So I was wondering if there was any kind of trend almost by vintage within the last 2 years of performance? Rick? Yes.
If you look at it we're not seeing any kind of dramatic change.
All of these things were underwritten.
If you look at the volume of activity that we did over the last 12 18 24 months I think you'll see if you look at the cash flow going out and land acquisitions that we sort of stepped away from the markets when it got a little frothy and then moved back in when they cooled back down and took advantage of people stepping away because of their aggressive tactics during those time periods.
But across the board regardless of the vintage 24 months ago 18 months last 3 months that 200 basis point spread is pretty standard.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then 2 other kind of housekeeping questions can you give me your owned and optioned lot count? And then just backing into the impairments based upon your commentary for gross margins suggests about a $9 million impairment this quarter I wanted to make sure that was right.
Sure.
Starting with the home sites owned and controlled there were about 107 000 owned and controlled of which 91 000 were owned.
And the impairments from a homebuilding perspective homebuilding communities was about $9.7 million.
Okay that wraps it up for us.
Want to thank everybody for joining us.
Just in summary we're really very comfortable with the positioning of all 3 of our segments right now.
Current profitability operating leverage as the market starts to come back a little bit.
And when that'll be that's up for grabs.
So thank you for joining us and we look forward to reporting next quarter.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to Lennar's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
David Collins for the reading of the forward-looking statement.
Today's conference call may include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to Lennar's future business and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements may include statements regarding Lennar's business financial condition results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar's estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could cause Lennar's actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar's annual report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Good morning and thank you everyone for joining us for our fourth quarter and year-end 2011 update.
We're very pleased to detail our results for you this morning.
As always I'm joined this morning by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; Diane Bessette our Vice President and Treasurer; and David Collins our Controller.
Additionally Rick Beckwitt our President; Jon Jaffe our Chief Operating Officer; and Jeff Krasnoff Chief Executive Officer of our Rialto segment are here to participate as well as we have all just been together and completed our year-end review of our -- and our 2012 look-ahead with our regional and division presidents here in Miami.
I'm going to begin this morning with some brief opening remarks about the state of the current housing market in general.
Rick and Jon will comment on aspects of Lennar's homebuilding operation.
Jeff will update performance in our Rialto segment.
And finally Bruce will provide detail on our quarter and year-end numbers.
After Bruce of course we'll open the phone lines to your questions.
And we request as always that in our Q&amp;A period that everyone please limit to just one question and one follow-up so that we can be as fair as possible to everybody who'd like to ask.
So 2 days ago on CNBC Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan highlighted that he believed that housing was at or nearing the bottom of this downturn and I believe he's correct.
I previewed in our third quarter conference call 3 months ago that we were beginning to see evidence of a genuine turn in residential and the residential housing market and that this could be a harbinger of market stability.
Last quarter I was not ready to conclude that a real trend had been identified.
This quarter I'm feeling somewhat more confident that the market is in fact changing.
As I noted earlier we have just completed our 2-day review of all of operating divisions across the country.
We've looked back at our 2011 results and we've looked ahead to 2012 expectations.
The consistent message is that the general environment is different this year than it has been in the past.
There are discernible fundamental shifts appearing in the home market and there are empirical compliments that are to date confirmatory that the market is showing signs of stability.
Home prices and volumes have been falling for 7 years now.
Prices are down some 20% to 50% depending on the market and new home starts and sales are at post-depression lows.
Concurrently interest rates are at historic lows.
According to HUD homes are more affordable to purchase today than they've been since 1971 as a result of these falling home prices and low interest rates.
Today's consumers are beginning to realize that housing represents an undeniable value proposition.
And accordingly demand is growing and we are seeing it in the field at most of our communities.
Now demand is constrained by the mortgage qualification standards and processes that define today's mortgage market and that has been overcorrected by the severity of the downturn.
But the demand is growing and looking to find some loosening of those credit standards.
Today's consumer is looking at the home purchase differently than in the past -- in past years.
The home purchase is no longer the place to invest savings in order to ride a wave of price increases.
Instead today's buyers are looking for real value and they're finding real value in for-sale housing.
First the fully loaded cost of ownership is lower in most desirable markets than comparable rental rates.
While this might not show up in national statistics in local competitive markets principal interest taxes insurance community association costs and lawn care are together lower than the competitive rental market.
Today for-sale housing represents an excellent value proposition.
Secondly they are looking for an alternative to the rental market.
Rental prices are high and they've been moving up and they reprice every 12 months.
Today's consumers are looking for a domicile that provides living cost stability as well as stable and a safe place to raise a family.
They are looking to reconsider the rental lifestyle where rental rates have been rising and are likely to continue to rise for the foreseeable future.
In our fourth quarter we've seen real evidence of these changes in the field.
We are experiencing more traffic in our welcome home centers and customers are actively discussing their desire to find a way to purchase and avoid the rental market and its repricing.
Perhaps most importantly we've seen consistent sales pace at stabilized prices throughout our fourth quarter and even through December during the season that is generally the most difficult time of the year.
Our steady traffic and sales rate indicate stronger demand trend than prior years when sales just dropped off at this time of the year.
New orders are up 20% over last year and our backlog is up 35% over last year.
These improved results come with prices and margins that are consistent with or marginally better than our current deliveries which indicates that we are not and have not been reaching for volume.
It is likely that the national members will not reflect these results because they will incorporate in their data many tertiary markets that did not affect our competitive landscape.
But the more desirable housing markets are experiencing a fundamental change as foreclosure inventories have been absorbed in these markets and the consumer recognizes the value proposition.
This is the consistent message from our divisions reflecting their interactions in the field.
Now let me give you a few brief comments on our fourth quarter and year end.
It's well documented that 2011 has been another difficult year for the housing market.
Prices continued to decline across the country by another 4-plus percent while the volume of new homes sold in the U.S.
has remained at historically low levels.
Against this backdrop we've performed consistently on all fronts.
All of our business segments Homebuilding Financial Services and Rialto have remained profitable in the quarter and for the year producing $0.16 for the quarter and $0.48 for the year.
Most importantly the basic metrics that define our business have been carefully managed through this difficult year.
Margins have remained consistently high and we expect will remain in the 19.5% to 21.5% range in 2012.
SG&amp;A has been improving through the year and was at 13.8% for the quarter.
Average sales price has been steady at about $243 000 while incentives have been declining.
Alongside of our Homebuilding activities our Financial Services group has also been holding steady and positioning for recovery while remaining profitable as well.
Our Rialto segment has also produced consistent profit as it's grown through a turbulent year.
While Rialto earnings have been clouded by mark-to-market adjustments relative to our PPIP securities program with these adjustments stripped away we are starting to see the real earnings power of the Rialto machine.
Rialto completed its money raised for its first fund in Q4 and ended with a $700 million pool of capital to invest in strategic assets to drive its future.
To date about 70% of that fund is invested and the pipeline for new investments is strong.
As we look ahead Rialto should continue to be a solid earnings contributor for Lennar and will begin to return cash to corporate as it is now investing self-generated funds.
All in all 2011 has been an excellent year for Lennar as we have navigated the turbulent waters of the housing market and the U.S.
economy seeking a bottom and grasping for stability.
Our strategy has been to refine and position our company for recovery and remain marginally profitable while we stay patient and we've done exactly that.
All of the segments of our company are extremely well positioned as you will now hear from our operating team.
As I look ahead to 2012 I am cautiously optimistic that we are seeing a real bottom form and that we will begin to see signs of recovery.
National statistics and news will give us mixed signals as we move through the year as they represent a compendium of all of the best and the worst markets around the country.
But I feel that stabilization and recovery will emanate from the most desirable markets and spread slowly outward over years.
Lennar is positioned with a strong balance sheet in the right market with an exceptional management team and a well-constructed strategy to perform solidly as market conditions begin to improve.
With that let me turn over to Rick Beckwitt.
Thanks Stuart.
During the fourth quarter we continue to focus on acquiring or auctioning new homesites that would have a positive impact on our bottom line.
Our primary focus was pursuing distressed opportunities and we spent a lot of time in one-on-one negotiations with banks and other extremely motivated sellers.
This quarter we purchased approximately 3 800 homesites totaling approximately $162 million and we spent approximately $56 million on land development.
In addition we auctioned almost 1 100 homesites.
Our new acquisitions were located in markets where we saw the greatest market strength and value proposition.
Our focus within these markets has been on highly desirable communities located in sub-markets where people really want to live and where foreclosed homes have already been absorbed.
Whether the hook is schools spectacular amenities commute time each one of these new deals has been hand selected with a very specific target buyer and product in mind.
In short we invested in A-plus assets and stayed away from the fringe or tertiary locations where price was the only driver and where foreclosure activity remains.
We also have insisted that we have a cost-effective home design in hand before we buy any land which has allowed us to streamline the time period between when we buy land and when we're open for sale.
It's been a true cash-on-cash focus.
From a geographic standpoint during the fourth quarter approximately 33% of our new acquisitions were located in Florida 19% in the Carolinas 14% in Maryland and Virginia 11% in California 10% in Texas with the remaining 13% spread throughout our other markets.
As in prior quarters the lion's share of our new land deals were sourced outside of a competitive bid environment.
We've stayed away from the typical broker-to-bid type deals and rolled up our sleeves and directly sourced of the majority of our land transactions.
In many of our acquisitions with the help of our Rialto operation we have purchased debt at a deep discount and subsequently foreclosed on real estate at an incredibly attractive land basis.
We have also backed into land through the purchase of community development district farms tax certificates deed in lieus and short sale arrangements.
In fact some of the more complicated and unique transactions have created the most upside earnings potential.
Regardless of how each deal was sourced all of our new deals in the quarter were underwritten with extremely conservative assumptions.
As in the past they have assumed no price appreciation and in many cases price declines and slower absorption basis.
In all of these deals we have required gross margins to exceed 20% and IRRs to exceed 20%.
To date we've been extremely pleased with the performance of our new land acquisitions.
During the fourth quarter approximately 41% of our deliveries came from communities purchased to put under contract during the last 3 years.
Our gross margin on the closings in these communities was approximately 200 basis points higher than the gross margin for the entire company in the fourth quarter.
Outside of our traditional land acquisition activities in late December we expanded our operations into the Pacific Northwest through the acquisition of a portfolio of communities from Seattle-based Premier Communities.
Led by Ryan McGowan Premier has been delivering homes and developing land in the Seattle area for several decades.
We now own and control approximately 855 homesites in 23 communities.
These communities are ideally situated in a very tight and constrained land market.
We are extremely excited with the prospects of this new operation and welcome Ryan and his team to the Lennar family.
Before I turn it over to Jon Jaffe our Chief Operating Officer let me give you some final stats.
On a year-over-year basis our inventory increased about $300 million to approximately $4 billion and this excludes consolidated inventory not owned and an approximately $14 million investment in Seattle in the first quarter of 2012.
Since the beginning of 2009 when we really started our land acquisition efforts we've invested over $1.5 billion to purchase approximately 32 700 homesites.
In addition we have auctioned several thousand additional homesites during this period.
As reflected in our industry-leading gross margins which have increased significantly during this time period there can be no question that we've invested wisely.
At November 30 we owned and controlled 111 386 homesites and had 422 active committees.
As we move through 2012 you should see a 5% to 10% increase in our community count and a continued positive contribution to our operating margins from our new investments.
I'd like to thank our Lennar and Rialto associates for their hard work during 2011.
I have no doubt that we have the most talented team in the business.
I'd like Jon to now talk about the operations.
Thank you Rick and good morning.
We are very proud of the pre-impairment 21.6% gross margin and 7.8% operating margin we delivered in our fourth quarter respectively 80 and 110 basis point improvements.
This achievement did not come about without a lot of focus and attention by management on each of the component parts of our business.
I would like to speak to our company strategy on maximizing sales and margins our intense focus on managing direct costs and our overall focus on leveraging our operating structure to reduce overhead levels.
Our sales focus remains a market by market community by community understanding of today's home-buying consumers' wants and needs.
Through the execution of our Everything's Included platform we deliver value by targeting the right product and features in every community.
Each Lennar division offers home designs square footages and included features that present a great value to the homebuyer.
Lennar's Everything's Included approach is especially effective as we compete against resales by highlighting the energy-efficient technological and quality features that demonstrate there's nothing like new when it comes to buying a home.
Much of our sales strength in the fourth quarter was driven by the performance of our new communities where we are achieving a higher sales pace as compared to our legacy communities.
These new communities are well located properly positioned and priced to appeal to today's homebuyers.
As Rick noted 41% of our deliveries were from new communities.
New orders from these same new communities increased from 27% of our sales in the fourth quarter of 2010 to 44% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Overall as Stuart mentioned we are seeing better traffic both in terms of quality and quantity but more so from the quality perspective representing the customer desire to make a buying decision now.
While we are seeing these better patterns we also continued to experience a very difficult mortgage approval environment which is restricting the ability of a growing demand to become homebuyers.
As the mortgage market eventually corrects itself we expect more of this demand to be freed up.
In the fourth quarter we saw strong year-over-year sales growth in all of the Florida markets Atlanta and North Carolina in the Southeast; Phoenix and Vegas in the Southwest; and in parts of California.
There was a slight pickup in Houston but overall Texas was relatively flat.
While we don't give data on the current quarter activity I can tell you that we saw improved year-over-year sales trends through December.
And while the year-over-year improvement varies slightly by market from the fourth quarter every one of our markets showed improvement in December from the prior year.
Our management team is also very focused on the cost side of the margin equation.
Our current average direct cost of homes remains around $40 per square foot.
We maintained this cost level by value engineering at a more granular level than we have ever before.
Our costs are broken down into detailed categories where we measure performance of these categories across all of our divisions.
This combined with detailed and effective management of the building process in the field has allowed us to keep our costs down by over 30% from the 2006 peak.
This has been accomplished this year despite various fluctuations of some materials and commodities.
I want to recognize the hard work of our national and local purchasing teams along with our operating divisions for their drive in finding new solutions and implementing new processes that allow us to deliver better quality and value in the home.
We have also maintained our focus on cycle time which is down almost 30% from the peak.
This represents an average build time of between 90 to 100 calendar days for single-family detached homes.
We have accomplished this by working hard with our -- hard and hand in hand with our trade partners in designing and building more efficient value-engineered homes.
This effort has allowed us to control our field costs and effectively manage the delivery of our inventory.
We have also maintained our intense focus on management of our SG&amp;A.
Our SG&amp;A for the fourth quarter was at 13.8% which is the lowest level we have achieved in 5 years.
This represents a 30 basis point improvement over the prior year and begins to show the opportunity to leverage our operating structure.
This was accomplished despite the start-up costs associated with our new community growth as well as the commissions associated with greater broker participation.
There is an increasing trend of third-party brokers bringing their buyers to us which we believe is evidence of the growing awareness of the ease and value of the new home purchase versus resale.
Now I'll put our overhead focus into perspective.
The fourth quarter spend of $112 million compares to $484 million in Q4 of 2006.
As Stuart and Rick have mentioned we have just completed our operations reviews with each of our Homebuilding divisions.
Across-the-board we have a team that is energized to execute on our strategy of maximizing sales revenue reducing the cost of sales and delivering industry-leading operating margins.
Thank you and I'd now like to turn it over to Jeff Krasnoff.
Thanks Jon and good morning everyone.
As Stuart mentioned in his opening remarks Rialto is beginning to hit its stride and demonstrate its earnings capacity.
Before Bruce reviews the details behind Rialto's $8 million of operating earnings along with the results of the rest of the company there are a few areas that might be helpful to touch on to give you a little bit more perspective on what's going on at Rialto.
With the backdrop of uncertainty in Europe we've nonetheless continued to see what amounts to positive dynamics for the new deal flow in the markets in which we operate.
U.S.
banks are still under pressure to sell real estate assets and the prospected foreign banks will also be shedding assets since added further downward pressure on the pricing of many opportunities especially where we believe we continue to have a competitive advantage.
Therefore the opportunity to purchase both real estate back loans and securities is as strong if not stronger than ever.
And we remain focused on evaluating.
And if we can continue to price advantageously acquiring distressed portfolios commercial mortgage-backed securities and other related assets through our current exclusive investment vehicle the Rialto Real Estate Fund.
As Stuart mentioned during the quarter the fund had its final closing of equity commitments bringing the total to $700 million including the $75 million commitment from us and from over 2 dozen different investor groups.
The fund has now been able to acquire or tie up a total of 28 different negotiated transactions and our pipeline of new potential investments remains strong.
This has resulted in the investment of a little over $500 million of fund equity to acquire almost $1.5 billion of assets based on unpaid principal balance for about $0.37 on the dollar.
And now with about $200 million of equity remaining to be called we're currently focusing on bringing out our next investment fund.
We believe these in future vehicles will not only help to enhance the company's returns and add consistent cash flows back to corporate but will also be important building blocks for us to develop a first-class Investment Management business.
Almost 75% of our fund investments so far have been distressed portfolios from regional and community banks CMBS special servicers and non-bank financial institutions.
The remaining investments are in new issue CMBS securities with strong current cash flows where we have found risk-adjusted pricing dynamics unlike any we have seen since the early days of that business dating back to the mid-1990s.
Our focused Rialto team of 180 strong continues to push the resolution process forward enhanced by the well-coordinated resources of the rest of the Lennar team.
Being able to integrate the unique talents of a leading nationwide residential developer and homebuilder has been and continues to be a unique advantage for us.
And in turn as part of this active collaboration led by Eric Feder who oversees our bank relationships the Homebuilding divisions have been able to continue to capture distressed opportunities from the same institutions we have been working with on the portfolios.
As you have heard this is providing a great mechanism to generate new communities for homebuilding at extremely attractive pricing.
Since we began investing in distressed assets at the end of the first quarter of 2010 we have as of now collected gross over $550 million of cash including over $120 million from the sales of real estate owned.
Included as part of this the FDIC transaction partnerships now hold over $320 million of cash on their balance sheets including approximately $260 million earmarked to defease the $627 million of FDIC seller financing.
Market uncertainty has been responsible for keeping us from having one of our most profitable quarters yet as a result of the $7.6 million unrealized loss related to our share of the mark-to-market on our PPIP fund.
And for the year these marks have aggregated $21.4 million.
However these marks as required by U.S.
Treasury we believe reflect more of the general sentiment in the marketplace related to the potential need for European banks to liquidate fixed income assets.
We have not changed our view of the resilient underlying cash flows that we used to underwrite and price our PPIP investments.
In fact our PPIP fund has been actively looking to acquire additional securities.
And to date exclusive of the marks we've already recognized approximately $23 million in interest income and fees related to our $68 million investment in and management of the fund.
So these are just a few of the reasons we remain very excited about the continued progress of our Rialto franchise our current position in the marketplace and the synergies with the rest of the Lennar team.
Thank you and I'll turn it over to Bruce.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
This is our seventh consecutive quarter of profitability and our fourth quarter results reflect strong core operating earnings that were partially offset by Homebuilding impairments of $17.9 million and a PPIP mark-to-market that Jeff discussed.
That's an unrealized loss of $7.6 million.
Let me review the numbers in all 3 segments starting with Homebuilding.
Revenues from home sales increased 13% to $817 million driven by a 10% increase in wholly owned deliveries and a 2% increase in average sales price to $243 000.
The average sales price by region is as follows and please note that we were required to change our reportable segments this quarter as noted in our press release so you will see a new Southeast Florida region while Georgia and the Carolinas have moved from the other region to the East region.
East average sales price was $221 000 up 3%; Southeast Florida was $265 000 up 1%; Central was $211 000 up 2%; Houston $228 000 up 5%; West $307 000 down 3%; and other was $339 000 down 9%.
As was mentioned our gross margin on home sales before impairments was 21.6% in the fourth quarter which was an 80 basis point improvement compared to the prior year.
In our last conference call we provided a gross margin percentage range for the fourth quarter before impairments of 19% to 21%.
We exceeded this range due to delivery of more favorable product mix of higher gross margin percentage deliveries which includes an increasing percentage of deliveries from new communities that was mentioned and that's now 41% of our deliveries.
The gross margins were strongest in the East and the Southeast Florida regions this quarter.
Sales incentives as a percentage of home sale revenue decreased 20 basis points to 12.2% in the fourth quarter versus 12.4% in the prior year.
As a result of the strong gross margins that were mentioned and the improvement in SG&amp;A that Jon discussed our Homebuilding operating margins before impairment improved 110 basis points from the prior year to 7.8%.
During the quarter we recognized the $4.7 million net gain relating to an asset distribution from a JV.
This was a linked transaction reflected on 2 income statement lines earnings from unconsolidated entities and other income.
When a joint venture determines it is disposing of assets it needs to evaluate the assets at the lower of cost or market.
As a result the joint venture was required to book an impairment.
The company's share of this joint venture impairment was $57.6 million charge.
As part of the joint venture distribution the company received assets that were fair valued above its remaining investment account balance and that resulted in the $62.3 million gain.
The impairments during the quarter on the Homebuilding side were $17.9 million and that compares to $22.3 million in the prior year.
Turning to Financial Services that business segment generated operating earnings of $9.1 million versus $11.7 million last year.
Mortgage pretax income was $9.1 million versus $11.1 million in the prior year.
And during the quarter we successfully entered into another confidential settlement with the second of the 3 large banks that purchased the vast majority of our mortgage originations.
This settlement which totaled $2 million was within the accrued liability on our books for a potential mortgage put-back exposure and we now have a remaining liability of approximately $6 million.
And we are comfortable that that's adequate for any future exposure.
Our title company generated $1.5 million of profits versus $1 million in the prior year.
And additionally the Financial Services result include a $1.3 million reserve for the disposition of our last remaining cable system.
As Jeff mentioned our Rialto business segment generated operating earnings totaling $8 million and this number includes $2 million of net losses attributable to non-controlling interest.
Rialto's operating earnings before the PPIP mark-to-market adjustments have showed significant improvement growing to $15.6 million during the quarter versus $7.7 million in the prior year netting out the prior year's PPIP mark-to-market gain.
The composition of Rialto's $8 million of operating earnings by type of investment is as follows: the FDIC portfolio contribution this quarter was breakeven; the non-FDIC portfolios generated a $17.3 million gain; PPIP net of interest income and the mark-to-market had a $4.8 million loss; and there were $2 million contributed from the Rialto Real Estate Fund.
This was offset by approximately $6.4 million of general and administrative expenses which is net of management fees and reimbursements of approximately $3.7 million.
Although revenue from the FDIC portfolios were higher in the fourth quarter versus the prior year we experienced higher expenses relating primarily to property taxes and legal expenses relating to both servicing loans and REO resulting in the breakeven quarter for the FDIC portfolios.
The $17.3 million contribution from the non-FDIC portfolios this quarter are primarily from deficiency recoveries accretable interest income gains upon foreclosure and sales of REO net of REO expenses.
Our 15% interest in the Rialto Real Estate Fund generated approximately $2 million of profits which is in addition to the management fees highlighted above.
The $4.8 million loss during the quarter from our investment in PPIP is reported as equity and earnings from unconsolidated entities and this loss is comprised of $7.6 million of unrealized loss due to mark-to-market adjustment partially offset by a $2.8 million of interest income.
The success of the Rialto Real Estate Fund has enabled us to grow Rialto using the third-party capital.
During the quarter the company didn't invest any new capital in the Rialto segment.
Rialto continues to generate strong cash flow.
And at quarter end there was already $219 million in the defeasance cash account to retire debt and there was an additional $84 million of cash on Rialto's balance sheet.
The company recognized a tax benefit in the fourth quarter of $13.7 million relating to the favorable resolution of certain federal and state tax issues.
In computing our earnings per share for the quarter the add back for interest relating to our convertible debt is $871 000.
We concluded the year with a strong liquid balance sheet.
Our leverage remained low as our Homebuilding debt to total capital net of the $1 billion of cash was 46.4%.
During the quarter we paid off maturing senior notes of $113 million.
There are no maturities now until 2013 and we raised $400 million of new convertible notes with a 3.25% rate and a 37.5% premium and we received $350 million of that cash in the current quarter.
Shareholders equity ended the year at $2.7 billion and that's a book value per share amount of $14.31.
This book value per share does not include the fully reserved deferred tax asset which is currently at $577 million or $3.06 per outstanding share.
At year end the company with the consultation of its auditors evaluated whether the reserve on its deferred tax asset is still needed.
The relevant accounting guidance requires a very high threshold in order to conclude that the reserve is no longer needed.
Although the company's strong performance and current positioning is bringing it closer to a conclusion that the reserve is no longer needed we have concluded to defer a reversal until further evidence that the housing market recovery has been revealed.
We ended 2011 with our strongest quarterly backlog growth since 2002 up 35%.
This strong backlog coupled with our focus on strong gross margin percentages positions us for another year of profitability in 2012.
Stuart indicated we are increasing our gross margin expectations for 2012 to be in a range of 19.5% to 21.5%.
And as usual our first quarter is expected to have seasonally lighter volume and gross margins at the lower end of our range making it tougher to be profitable in the first quarter.
However we are well positioned and we are looking forward to another year of profitability throughout the remainder of 2012.
And with that let me open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is coming from Ivy Zelman Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> You had mentioned Stuart some brief comments about rent inflation helping to some extent for people to reevaluate the economics as it relates to owning versus renting.
Do you have any data that might support that in terms of serving the traffic cuts coming through or people that are actually signing sales contracts that are saying they've been renters? And maybe some anecdotes that can help us understand the opportunity? Certainly there's plenty of people that arguably have been delaying purchases that might be a significant opportunity and I just want to hear your thoughts on that please.
Yes.
When we talk about data data gets a little bit convoluted.
What we specifically did Ivy is we went out and looked at the competitive landscape relative to communities in specific markets.
And we actually put together a little presentation on it that we've shared in some of our presentations and we'll probably continue to.
And we've looked at the fully loaded cost of homeownership as compared with the rental rates that are in a competitive radius of communities where we are actively selling.
So this is real information from real markets where we're competing.
Now if you were to broaden the thought -- the radius if you were to expand the radius you might find that the data doesn't hold up.
But in a real competitive environment at a local level we're finding that there are 2 things at work.
Number one is a value proposition where fully loaded cost of homeownership is at or lower and generally lower than the competitive rental communities.
And then perhaps more importantly in the more desirable areas rental prices which reprice every 12 months have been trending upward anywhere from 5% to 15% on selected markets and it is a combination of the value proposition and the notion that the cost of living expenses are going to go up are going up and are going to continue to go up that are driving people to say I've got to lock this expense down or it can run away from me.
It is reducing my personal disposable income when wages are not rising.
And so it's driving more traffic to our sales centers.
Research Division</strong> Just to -- I don't want to say this is my follow up question because I'm going to save that one but just to clarify Stuart on your analysis this doesn't also include the benefit assuming the mortgage interest deduction as well as assuming you're talking comparing apartment renting to single-family ownership just to clarify? And then I have a follow-up.
Okay yes.
That's a good clarification so we won't count it as your follow-up.
But we actually decidedly did not include the mortgage interest deduction because of all of the discussion out there that it could be might be vulnerable.
We wanted to take a more pure look as a consumer might look at it.
Any time there's a question mark it might be discounted.
Even without the mortgage interest deduction the comparison is favorable in many communities across the country ownership versus renting.
This is Jon.
I would also add that seeing surveys I don't know exactly the group survey but in realty publications that consistently state that a very high percentage around 70% of renters do look at homeownership in their future.
And I would also just add anecdotally in select markets I've heard from apartment owners the increasing number of the churn over going to homeownership versus other rentals.
Research Division</strong> No we've heard the same and we did a survey like that Jon.
Maybe you're reading our survey so hopefully that was the case.
But to bring up my second question Stuart you've talked about the stringency of mortgage availability.
Certainly everyone recognizes that.
But what I'd like you to hopefully clarify to the listeners is that mortgage credit maybe stringent but I don't believe that there are people that were limited in terms of the pool of people that assuming confidence comes back that mortgages are not going to be something that would limit the number of homebuyers.
In other words you grew -- your year-over-year sales were up 20%.
Assuming those people are going to close with modest cancellations I would assume that there's no change favorably to mortgage availability but you have more confidence that people are stepping into the market.
So if I ask you in 3 years from now and you were seeing a pickup in sales activity would you say there's a limit to how faster sales can grow because of the mortgage stringency? Or is it really more confidence that's limiting you and there's plenty of people that have higher than a 640 FICO score or that can come up with 5% or 10% down payment it's just a confidence issue that's really limiting it and certainly it would help to have easier credit but it doesn't at least the mortgage companies we talked to doesn't limit the opportunity to see a recovery in housing? Well look I think I want to be careful not to be guided by your question.
But I think that the mortgage market under all circumstances right now is choppy and the process for mortgage approval is somewhat limiting.
There are many people who don't have the qualifications.
Some of the -- many of the people that don't have the qualifications are burning off the needed years between a short sale or a bankruptcy or a foreclosure to get to the point where they're allowed to get back into the mortgage market.
Some of them are regenerating a good credit score.
Some of them are accumulating a down payment.
The qualification side of the mortgage market is difficult it's choppy and it is somewhat limited today but we are living in a dynamic world where that's changing.
At the same time the process has become intensely cumbersome.
The request for documentation seems to be never ending.
And the process together with the qualifications are the result of an overcorrection.
That overcorrection in my opinion is going to find a way to burn off that is the overcorrection is going to find a way to burn off over time.
But as with any pendulum swing it takes some time for the pendulum to find its equilibrium and I believe it will.
So with demand coming to the market in an increased measure and with the mortgage qualification market and process being somewhat stringent and limiting I think the 2 will work together increased demand and mortgage market reaching equilibrium.
And over time we're going to see demand really start to peak up.
Now whether that's in 2012 or whether it takes more time for the markets to settle and stuff it's yet to be seen and I don't want to opine on that.
But I think that over time we're going to see demand push through the stringency of the mortgage market.
The next question is coming from Stephen Kim Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I also believe that you don't -- that the mortgage availability really isn't the primary impediment that it's primarily an issue of confidence.
In that vein I was wondering if you could talk about the trends you're seeing in traffic relative to the trends that we saw in orders or you are seeing in orders? Are you seeing traffic increase at a faster rate year-over-year or however you choose to look at it relative to orders or vice versa? It varies slightly from market to market.
But we are I think in general seeing traffic increase at a faster rate.
But I said earlier that the biggest difference we're seeing is in a greater desire to make the buying decision as compared to prior periods in the year.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's really great.
I guess the second question that I had relates to your subdivision count.
In particular what I'm curious about is you would think you had given guidance that community count being up roughly 5% or so in 2012 but obviously if what you're seeing now is in fact a harbinger of an improved spring selling season? One would think that you might be tempted to tweak up your subdivision count to capture some of that volume.
You having one of those stronger balance sheets in the industry will be better able to do that one would think.
So I was curious if you could give us an idea of your capacity to increase your subdivision count greater than the 5% that you mentioned? Steve it's Rick.
There's no question we've got the dry powder to press it up if the opportunities are there.
But as you've seen us over the last several years we've been investing wisely.
As the market starts to increase we're going to get increased absorptions from our existing communities.
We'll invest in new communities.
And there's no question in my mind that if there are good deals out there we'll find them first.
With regard to community count in 2011 what I can tell you is while we did give guidance through the year that we saw community count would be up there's a lot of communities that come in and out intra-quarter either through auction deals where we have very little or no earnest money that you guys don't see.
If they're successful they stay on; if they're not we move out.
But most of those things still add to positive contribution on a net margin basis intra-quarter.
So as we look at 2012 we gave guidance for a 5% to 10% increase.
I think it'll be every bit of that but we're going to just invest wisely throughout the year.
The next question is coming from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question.
I was hoping just to get perhaps a little bit more granular on the order trends during the quarter.
And it looks like absorption or sales per community actually improved 8% 10% sequentially versus I think as Stuart you said last year fell off a little bit as is typical in 4Q versus 3Q.
I was wondering if you could kind of take us through if that was driven by a couple of submarkets? Certainly there's huge order growth in Southeast Florida or the fact that as a mix basis you have a higher percentage of newer communities.
I think you said driving 44% of your orders if that kind of picked up materially from the third quarter? Any more granularity there would be helpful.
Okay.
The new orders in the quarter we indicated about 44% were coming from the new communities.
But we've seen most of that success and I think Jon got into this a bit coming from more of the new communities that we've been opening.
But it's really been throughout the quarter a success throughout the country.
It hasn't been one market that we've experienced the success.
A little more color.
I think that the areas where we saw the greatest improvement in sales from new communities as we mentioned was Southeast Florida but also in central Florida and the Raleigh area as an example.
In Dallas-Fort Worth and then Texas we saw that pickup.
And Orange County California in Colorado markets like that we had dramatic increases and our activity in our new communities year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess the second question just on the gross margins.
It looks like you're kind of increasing the range that you think is possible by maybe 50 bps or more.
And this quarter you exceeded the range that you had guided to in terms of 21.6% over the 21% high end of the range.
Is there any reason to think that you wouldn't be able to at least achieve the higher end of this range for fiscal '12 outside of any major mixed shift in deliveries maybe by region? Because certainly over the last couple of quarters now you've been at that high end of the range.
Any color there would be helpful particularly as you kind of pointed to this quarter being also positively influenced by mix? Well let me say this Mike.
We've given a range and I think that that's where we're comfortable right now.
There are moving parts and we are rounding the corner to come into our first quarter.
Our first quarter is always lighter volume.
We have lower expectations for our first quarter and we want to make sure that we keep everybody's perspective properly focused on the short-term and the longer-term year-end.
So we are giving a range.
We did throw out a couple of numbers and I want to make sure that they're clear.
44% of our new orders came from new communities and 41% of our deliveries came from new communities.
So you can see that we have a -- kind of a trend wise new communities are increasing their representation in the flow or in the composition of our gross margin.
But we recognize that our first quarter is likely to be a little bit lighter.
So where will we be within that range? We're going to wait and see what the composition brings to us.
But we do feel comfortable number one with the range we put out there; and number 2 with the fact that we did bring the range up by about 50 bps.
Research Division</strong> Great.
One quick follow-up on the first question if it's possible on the community count.
You were down 4% year-over-year in the fourth quarter and you're guiding for up 5% to 10% for the full year.
Would we expect that 5% to 10% to be more back-half weighted? Or should we expect more of a move in the first quarter? As we announced in a press release on the Pacific Northwest we brought in some additional communities in the Seattle area.
So you'll see some community count growth as those start to build out through the year.
Most of those opportunities were really land or option contracts that we got to get going in.
The Seattle market's a little bit unique.
They're smaller communities from an overall size standpoint so their overall contributions as a whole will be somewhat less.
But with regard to the overall year you'll see it more in the back end half of the year and it's going to be skewed somewhat by what the opportunities are out there.
The next question is coming from David Goldberg UBS.
Research Division</strong> This is Susan on for David today.
First of all I wanted to get your thoughts around some of the recent news that we've seen regarding government efforts to support housing.
A week or so ago the fed came up with a report that suggests the government could be warming up to the idea of allowing some larger more institutional capital to play perhaps a more meaningful role in the buy-to-rent market.
Can you just kind of give us your thoughts on this and maybe what you think it could indicate in terms of the government supporting different initiatives to help housing? Well there have -- I think that there's been more than just the discussion of the government buy-to-rent program.
There's also been part 2.0 that's been out there.
The most important thing to think about is the fact that the government is recognizing that stability in the housing market is important and it's important to refocus the attention on how we enable the housing market to recover.
And I think that portends good things for housing in general.
Certainly redeploying some of the idle inventory to the rental market will be helpful.
It will bring less supply on the for-sale market and will enable the for-sale market to absorb the overhang of foreclosures more rapidly.
It will deploy those assets into much needed rental housing.
And anything that the government can do to enable the borrowing -- the borrowers out there to decide not to strategically default will help the foreclosure market begin to resolve itself as well.
So our thoughts are that together with fundamental demand coming back anything that reduces the amount of supply of foreclosure homes on the market is going to be a benefit.
And the government is certainly thinking and working in that direction.
Research Division</strong> And then just as a quick follow-up I think it was Jon that mentioned your ability to maintain your direct cost over the quarter.
Given the volatility we've seen in some commodities and the fact that maybe conditions are starting to stabilize a bit are you starting to see any increased pressure from some of your suppliers to raise prices? And are you having to push back anymore on this? And talk a little bit about maybe how you're offsetting it if you are seeing any of that? Yes.
As I mentioned there have been impacts from certain materials or commodities.
The most recent example of that I think everyone is aware of is drywall where there's been increases.
We focus on both maintaining our cost on a material focus item-by-item but also on the process.
And as I said really managing the opportunities to find at a very detailed level the value and what's happening out in the field what's happening within our cost codes item-by-item and really driving efficiencies in that regard.
So it's a constant battle of managing the fluctuations in the material and commodity market with what we can do operationally to offset that and maintain a low-cost.
The next question is coming from Stephen East Ticonderoga Securities.
Research Division</strong> Stuart you talked -- or in the press release you all talked about incentives and they've stayed sort of flat.
If we look at that what's a normalized level? And if we're starting to see the market recover and order trends pickup et cetera do you expect that to start to drop as we move through 2012? Or is that more an entrenched type process that we're going through? Well look incentives are a funny thing.
On a more normalized level -- let me go back to really normalized market conditions you're in the 5% to 10% range.
And incentives are in part a composition of sale price.
It's kind of a tricky thing to figure out where things actually lie.
The fact is that the market is stabilizing and the first place that we're going to see sales price regenerate itself is with the incentives.
And certainly that is stabilizing and coming down a little bit and contributing to our margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you expect the incentives to back off as we move through the year? Well Stephen I have a perspective that the market is stabilizing.
It's going to take some recovery for the incentives to really back off.
On the one hand I think that I feel cautiously optimistic about what is happening with the market right now and into 2012 but I don't want to get ahead of this market.
It's been choppy and rocky.
And so I'd say we're going to wait and see.
We're going to carefully manage our business and manage the process.
I can tell you that Rick and Jon are looking at incentives and sales prices every single day with every division and that is being managed week-by-week in the field.
So to the extent that the market allows it we're going to be right on it and make sure that incentives are coming down.
This is Jon.
I would add too that the foreclosure environment is still out there and we compete against it.
And how we position our product with incentives without incentives as we compete to show the new home has a value is going to continue to sort of affect what you see in terms of incentive levels.
So Stuart said you've got to be really careful and you analyze it between both sales price and incentives and how you're positioning value.
Steve we're managing the business to a net price across the line or below the line.
In a more normalized market it's closing costs.
We're not at that juncture right now.
But as the market recovers that's the direction that we're going to take it.
It will take us a while to get there.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
So a lot of it's optics to get to that net price.
The other thing investors when they look at this space they've listened to a lot of the builders talk about all right we have a tremendous ability to ramp up our operational leverage because we're selling at 2 homes and when we get to 4 we still don't need to add people et cetera.
We're still not seeing it; we haven't really seen it in your numbers this quarter.
Is there something going on this quarter on a year-over-year basis that your SG&amp;A really didn't change? And do you expect that to start to change pretty rapidly if you start piling on 20% a quarter-type order rates? Well Stephen it's important to look right now at -- we're at a -- an interesting point if we look back at the year 2011 we're really flat with 2010.
So there's really not any real operational leverage that has been liberated at this point.
As I noted in my comments our posture has been to navigate the toughest part of this market as it looks for a recovery and to remain marginally profitable as we stay patient.
And so the operational leverage that we and other builders have talked about has not yet presented itself.
The movement from 1 to 1.5 to 2 sales to 4 sales per community per month will present itself and present itself I think very decidedly when we start to see real recovery in the marketplace.
And we're just not quite there yet.
So looking back at 2011 we're kind of flat.
As we start to see volumes jump up those volumes should have an embedded operational leverage in them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I can sneak in one quick one on the PPIP the mark-to-market are these securities typically held to maturity? Yes.
I mean that was the plan Stephen.
When we buy them we really look to what the cash flows look like over the life.
And clearly if there's an opportunity over the life to sell them and to maximize value at some point between now and that maturity we would do it.
But that's really -- when we went into it that was how we looked at it.
And by the way with that said it's why -- we're not big on recasting our numbers but we think it's important to look at the Rialto earnings machine without the PPIP either contribution or detraction because it's a clearer picture of what's really happening in Rialto.
The next question is coming from Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Hansen on for Nishu.
So you mentioned that the affordability decision has been kind of driving the new home purchases lately.
And where have you seen this come through in terms of your product line? And I guess really what we're trying to get at is have you seen the kind of less seasonal first-time buyer come back? And is that what kind of helped you put up a very pretty solid order number this quarter? It's really been across the entire universe of the product line.
We've seen increased traffic at the entry-level first-time buyer.
We've seen a pick up clearly in that mid-market and some of our higher-end product has been performing pretty well.
Stuart talked a little bit earlier about this value proposition change between the rental world and the for-sale world and we've seen some evidence that is beyond the surveys.
In our traditional marketing approaches we do eBlaster emails targeted at the rental world with door flyers.
And when we do that we see traffic coming because people are understanding that the overall ownership equation versus the rental equation pencils out.
So it's really across the price for a second.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then yes on some of your kind of interesting marketing initiatives we noticed on your website that you have a section that is devoted entirely to people who've been through a foreclosure before.
I mean are you seeing a meaningful amount of traffic from this group? And I would assume it's probably a little too early for that group to start buying but yes I mean how much of the traffic comes from this area? You really have 3 different types of people.
You have people who have gone through the short sale process.
They are generally taken out of the market for 2 years.
You have people that have gone through a foreclosure.
They are generally taken out of the market for 3 years.
And then you have people who have gone through a bankruptcy and they're taken out of the market for generally 6 or 7 years.
Is it 6 or 7 Jon? Seven.
Seven.
Okay.
So you have a sizable group of people across the country that have gone through a short sale process or foreclosure that are starting to come around the corner and reenter the market.
And even if they're not actually in the market or the time hasn't quite lapsed they are preparing to look at getting back in the market.
They are preparing their credit and their down payment because they don't want to be vulnerable to the 12-month repricing that you get in the rental world.
And that is what we're seeing out there and they are active participants.
Just for clarity this is Jon that site and our social media effort focuses on renters who also didn't go through that distress but either made the active choice to rent for a period of time or just have credit issues that don't necessarily derive out of the short sale or foreclosure but just have to deal with their particular debt situation or the situation just needing to save for down payments.
So we're trying to communicate and reach out in an effective way to people who are interested in homeownership and we help and guide them how to get there.
The next question is coming from Bob Wetenhall of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Your ASPs are up $5 000 and your incentives are up only $200 year-over-year.
This is obviously a very favorable trend and I just wanted to see if you think this trend is expected to accelerate as you move into the spring selling season.
As we said we're really managing towards a net price depending on the product the division the market the community.
Each one of these -- each one of our homes are incentivized to sell in order to maximize margin.
We gave a little bit of color with regard to what our go-forward margin expectations in there.
To some degree our price expectations on sales prices are reflected in that increased range.
This is Jon.
As Stuart said earlier I think we're going to have to wait and see what the trend delivers to us and how sales volume materializes.
If we do see increased absorptions we would expect that trend to continue.
But if we see a leveling off then you'd expect flatness.
And that really is a result of that level of activity.
LLC Research Division</strong> Understood.
Just turning to your SG&amp;A spending I think you were at $120 million in 2009 and then subsequently you've brought that under $100 million in each of the last 2 years.
Given your expectations for stronger volumes are you still going to be able to keep SG&amp;A close to $100 million next year? Or do you expect that's going to go back towards the $120 million number? Well it depends on the volume that we're going to see.
So you're talking about the SG&amp;A line it's really dependent on the volume Bob that we're going to accomplish and how many new communities that we're going to be opening up.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I could sneak one in would it be reasonable to look for Rialto to given the attractive backlog you have to contribute somewhere north of $50 million next year? Is that a reasonable number to use? Trying to understand how much visibility you guys have into that.
Yes.
We haven't given any numbers.
You note the last 2 quarters if you strip out the PPIP we're around $15 million.
But we haven't given any projections because the timing of some of the sales and collections from the borrowers doesn't necessarily come in where you could schedule it perfectly.
So we'll have to wait and see.
We haven't actually given a number out yet Bob.
And with that said I don't want to diminish the fact that we are seeing -- and I think that we've highlighted for you that we're starting to see real strength in earnings from the Rialto machine.
And we look forward to good performance as we go forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> But at the bare minimum this -- the trends you're seeing now with Rialto it looks like it's sustainable into next year.
We're enthusiastic about Rialto's prospects as we move ahead.
The next question is coming from Dan Oppenheim Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering when you're talking about the market and such you're talking about a lot of buyers that have worked through foreclosures.
How do you -- as you look ahead how do you think about that in terms of a lot of foreclosures that have yet to come to market and stuck in the process? Do you have any worries about that especially in Florida where it's been a pretty gradual process there? How are you thinking about? Well as I've noted the foreclosure world when looked at in a somewhat broader perspective gets clouded by good markets the best markets good markets and not such good markets.
And in the markets where we are targeting and where we are making our purchases and I think Rick did a good job of highlighting our strategy that is decidedly away from areas where there are foreclosures to be had our markets are generally focused on areas where the foreclosure and even the delinquency backlog had basically been absorbed because they are the more desirable areas to be purchasing.
And so even where -- you might think that foreclosures have not yet been completely resolved.
In order for a home to get to a foreclosure it's got to either not be salable at a price that can be realized or properly pay off the mortgage or at a price where a bank won't accept the short sale.
In the more desirable areas short sales are taking place to -- as an intervention method before you get to a foreclosure.
So in those markets you've seen a lot of clearing and we think the overhang is not nearly as severe.
Okay.
Well we appreciate everybody's attention on our 2011 review.
We look forward to giving you more color as we go forward into 2012.
Thanks for your attention.
This would conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to Lennar's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
David Collins for the reading of the forward-looking statement.
Today's conference call may include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to Lennar's future business and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements may include statements regarding Lennar's business financial condition results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar's estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could cause Lennar's actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar's annual report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Okay good.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our First Quarter 2012 Update.
I'm joined here as always by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; Diane Bessette our Vice President and Treasurer; Dave Collins our Controller.
We also have Rick Beckwitt our President; Jon Jaffe Chief Operating Officer; and Jeff Krasnoff CEO of Rialto.
I'm going to give some overview remarks both on the economy and the housing market and on Lennar in particular and then I'm going to turn it over to the management team to give additional background in detail.
After we open the phone lines as always we'd like to ask that you limit your question to just one question one follow-up please so that we can be as fair as possible to all.
So as I sit here today I'm really pleased with our solid first quarter 2012 operating results and what they represent relative to the housing market in general and to Lennar in particular.
Our first quarter results reflect another quarter of confirmation that both the housing market and the overall economy are stabilizing and that a very real trend is beginning to take shape.
They also demonstrate that our operating team is executing extremely well in a complicated environment.
I previewed in our third and fourth quarter conference calls that we were beginning to see evidence of a genuine turn in the residential housing market and this could be a harbinger of market stability.
Last quarter I was feeling somewhat more confident that the market was in fact changing and this quarter marks further evidence that stabilization is really taking hold.
The consistent message is that the general environment is different now than it's been in the past many years.
There are discernible fundamental shifts appearing in the home market and there are empirical data points that are to-date confirming that the market is showing real signs of stability.
With that said and as we saw from last week's reported national sales starts and permits numbers yesterday's pending home sales numbers and today's Case-Shiller Index that the housing market is not yet in full recovery.
In fact the stabilization process after a full 7-year decline in housing is rocky and erratic and is certainly not yet broad based.
Let me tell you a little bit about how we are thinking about the things that we're seeing in the field versus the national numbers that are being reported.
Four important themes are driving housing stabilization; 3 are demand-related and 1 is supply-related.
First today's consumer is looking at the home purchase differently than in the past years.
The home purchase is no longer a place to invest savings in order to ride a wave of price increases.
Instead today's buyers are looking for real value.
They are finding real value in for-sale housing.
We know that home prices and volumes are low and interest rates are at historical lows and affordability is extremely high today.
Today's consumers are beginning to realize that housing presents an undeniable value proposition and we're hearing this from them in the field.
Accordingly we're experiencing more traffic in our welcome home centers and customers are actively discussing their desire to find a way to purchase and capitalize on this moment in time.
They're starting to feel pressure not to miss this moment and that's being reinforced by discussion with family and friends buying and owning a home is no longer taboo at the dining room table.
And in the field we're witnessing instances where customers returning for a second visit are finding that the home that they wanted is sold.
Second trend today's housing consumers also seeking to avoid the rental market.
The fully loaded cost of ownership is lower in most desirable markets than comparable rental rates.
We've carefully studied this trend and have found that while this might not show up in national statistics in local competitive markets principal interest taxes insurance community association lawn care are all together lower than the competitive rental market.
Today for-sale housing represents an excellent value proposition on a pure monthly payment basis versus renting.
Additionally consumers are looking for an alternative to the annual repricing inherent in the rental market.
Rental prices are high and they've been moving up.
Today's consumer is looking for living cost stability as well as a safe and stable place to raise a family.
They're looking to reconsider the rental lifestyle where rental rates have been rising and are likely to continue to rise for the foreseeable future.
Third trend improvement in employment and consumer confidence has translated into the end of negative household formation.
The trend of children moving home and elderly parents moving in with children is at least slowing and may be reversing.
Over time this trend will be an even more powerful driver of demand increases.
Now some have suggested that the gains in the first part of the year might be weather-related since it's been abnormally warm in the North.
We however see strength across our platform including warmer markets where weather is not a factor and where warmth in the North might even be a negative to sales in the South.
It seems that the improvements derive from fundamental shifts.
On the supply side concerns remain about the overhang of REO and foreclosure inventory.
As I noted earlier market improvement is uneven across cities states and the country.
In the field we are seeing pockets of activity develop across the country not region- or state-specific.
These pockets are developing in many areas that are starting to recover.
These are geographic pockets that are defined by their desirable location driving the absorption of REO foreclosure and defaulted loan inventory.
Supply is running short in these areas and demand is pushing prices higher in some instances or is pushing the boundaries of desirability outward in other instances.
The broader market outside these pockets of activity remain weak.
While at present these pockets are isolated they are growing in both size and number.
It's likely that national numbers are not reflecting these themes because they incorporate and average in their data the secondary and tertiary markets that are not yet in recovery and do not affect our competitive landscape.
But the more desirable housing markets are experiencing a fundamental change as foreclosure inventories have been absorbed fewer distressed investor sales are being made and consumers recognize the value proposition.
Overall we've seen that demand is growing and in carefully selected markets supply is limited.
Nevertheless demand still remains constrained or is being held back by the mortgage qualification standards and processes that have been overcorrected by the severity of the downturn but demand is growing and customers are looking to find ways to qualify for loan and waiting for some loosening of credit standards.
Turning now to Lennar specifically.
In our first quarter we saw a fundamental improvement in all of the building blocks that define our homebuilding and Financial Services operations while Rialto continued to build and augment its blue-chip operating platform.
Our management team is executing on all fronts.
On the homebuilding front sales continued a significant pattern of improvement growing 33% over first quarter 2011 and that compares trend-wise to a 20% year-over-year improvement in the fourth quarter of last year.
Our improved sales year-over-year and sequentially come from a fairly flat community count which means that our sales per community are improving.
Perhaps most notably these sales improvements are not the result of unusual sales promotions or discounts as reflected by our improved gross and net margins.
Post-impairment gross margins improved from 20% to 20.9% while post-impairment net margin improved 3.6% to 6%.
We are maintaining and even growing margins while expanding sales.
These margin gains are reflective of a fundamentally sound sales program that is not compromising margin to gain sales but instead is maintaining price stability reducing incentives and beginning to show overhead leverage as volume improves.
Additionally we're not pushing to grow the quantity of active communities but are more focused on the quality of our active communities.
Accordingly we have invested cash aggressively to position our company with high-quality communities in A locations that enable us to produce solid margins and leverage overhead.
This affords us the position to be able to manage our business with carefully designed value-oriented product and efficient production and marketing program under our Everything's Included branding and a rightsized overhead structure.
As we look ahead to future quarters our strategy of focusing on high margins in well-positioned communities will prove to be the engine that drives SG&amp;A operating leverage that will produce strong bottom line earnings.
Rick and Jon will describe our homebuilding operations strategy in greater detail in just a minute.
Our Financial Services segment also performed very well in our first quarter.
It generated operating earnings of $8.3 million versus $1.2 million last year.
Earnings here derive from a consistent mortgage and title program that reports through our Chief Financial Officer Bruce Gross who will further describe how this important segment is not only profitable but is providing consistency and dependability in a difficult mortgage environment.
Finally our Rialto segment has also produced profits in the first quarter as it continued to grow its underlying business.
While Rialto earnings have declined year-over-year from $11 million last year to $9.4 million this year we have noted that Rialto profits have the general tendency to be less predictable on a quarter-by-quarter basis as we carefully manage the sale and resolution of assets to maximize value.
We remain very enthusiastic about the earnings power in the assets we've already purchased and we're certain that future quarters will demonstrate the investment and earnings power of the overall Rialto machine.
As I noted last quarter Rialto completed its money raise for its first fund and ended with a $700-million pool of capital to invest in core assets to drive its future.
To date about 70% of that fund is invested and the pipeline for new investments is very strong.
This fund will likely be fully invested by year end and we will soon begin working on the capital raise for fund #2.
As we look ahead Rialto will continue to be a solid earnings contributor for Lennar and will begin to return cash to corporate as it is now investing self-generated funds.
Jeff Krasnoff will give additional detail on Rialto's operations in just a few minutes as well.
All in all our first quarter has been an excellent start for 2012 for Lennar as we've navigated the turbulent waters of the housing market in the U.S.
economy seeking a bottom and stability.
Our strategy has been to refine and position our company for recovery and remain profitable while we stay patient.
This strategy has worked well for us.
All of the segments of our company are now extremely well positioned as you will now hear from our operating team.
As I look ahead to the future quarters I remain cautiously optimistic that we are seeing a real bottom form and that we will begin to see a real recovery.
National statistics and news will give us mixed signals as we move through the year as they represent a compendium of all of the best and the worst markets around the country.
But I feel that stabilization and recovery will emanate from the most desirable markets and spread slowly outward over the next years.
Lennar is positioned with a strong balance sheet in the right markets with an exceptional management team and a well-constructed strategy to perform solidly as market conditions continue to improve.
Now I'd like to turn over to Rick.
Thanks Stuart.
We are really pleased with our operating results this quarter.
These results were driven by both a well-executed land acquisition strategy and a fine-tuned homebuilding machine.
I'm going to review our land activities and highlight what differentiates Lennar from our competition.
Jon is then going to discuss our building activities and how we maximize the value of our land assets.
There's no question in my mind that profitability in this business starts with land.
You need to be in the right location at the right cost at the right time and with the right product to generate above market returns and sales.
This takes great relationships with banks and land sellers and it requires meticulous underwriting and market research.
It also requires a team of land acquisition professionals that know how to scour the markets for unique opportunities.
During the first quarter we continued to focus on acquiring and optioning new homesites that would have a positive impact on our bottom line.
Our primary focus was pursuing distressed opportunities with banks and other extremely motivated sellers through off-market deals in a noncompetitive process.
Our new acquisitions were located in markets where we saw the greatest strength and value proposition.
As in the past our focus has been on highly desirable communities located in micro-markets where people really want to live and where foreclosed homes have already been absorbed by the market.
We invested in A-plus areas and stayed away from the fringe or tertiary markets where price was the only driver.
This micro-market investment focus has significantly enhanced our gross margins and our new sales orders.
This quarter we purchased 4 225 homesites for $200 million -- $212 million and we spent $61 million on land development.
Combined our land acquisition and land development spend was up about 34% over the prior-year period.
In the first quarter we also gained title to an additional 3 400 homesites through negotiated settlements.
In addition we signed option contracts to acquire approximately 1 340 homesites.
As you can see this was a very busy and highly productive quarter for Lennar on the land acquisition side.
From a geographic standpoint approximately 39% of our land purchases in the first quarter were located in Florida 22% in Texas 14% in the Pacific Northwest 11% in the mid-Atlantic 10% in the West with the remaining 4% spread throughout our other markets.
As in prior quarters the lion's share of our new land deals were sourced outside of a competitive bid environment.
We stayed away from the typical broker to bid type of deals and directly sourced a large percentage of our land transaction.
This is a clear differentiating factor for Lennar.
Another key difference is our willingness to engage in highly complicated transactions that requires significant planning and take months if not years to reach the end result.
These deals are not for the faint of heart and require an intricate knowledge of vested entitlements and creditor rights.
But when carefully executed these opportunities can be incredibly profitable and generate outsized returns.
To give you a sense of what I'm talking about I would like to highlight 2 transactions that came together last quarter.
Negotiations on these 2 transaction began almost 2 years ago and we subsequently purchased the debt at deep discounts in fiscal 2011 and took title to the land in the first quarter of 2012.
We are now the proud owner of a crown jewel position in Doral Florida one of the hottest submarkets in the United States.
Representing more than half a square mile this property has approximately 2 400 homesites and will be an extremely profitable multiyear position for the company.
This deal involved the purchase of more than $218 million of debt instruments including CDD bonds community development district bonds loans held by multiple banks delinquent taxes and was subject to a litigation between the prior land developer and owner and various creditors.
In addition the CDD and the bank debt had competing first lien positions on the collateral creating the perfect storm.
For us this represented an incredible opportunity in our backyard a 3-dimensional chess game with no other viable buyer.
So we mapped out a detailed plan to resolve the dispute and gain control of the first lien positions.
What we needed to do was bring everyone to the table to create a workable solution.
Fortunately we had a great relationship with the banks the bondholders and the original land developer so we were able to work with each group individually to create a win-win for everyone involved.
After months of intense negotiation we acquired the CDD bonds and the first lien bank debt in 2011 and then settled with the original developer and a second position bank in 2012.
This new Doral community which is a stone's throw from our corporate office will drive margins for years to come because of its extremely attractive land bases.
We should deliver our first homes in this community by year end.
The second transaction involved a property in Naples Florida.
In the first quarter of this year we took ownership of a high-end substantially developed master-planned community with a fully operation TPC golf course.
This community has the only TPC-branded golf course in Southwest Florida.
The property just located 5 miles from downtown Naples included more than 1 000 acres and 1 050 homesites 32% of which were fully developed.
Similar to the Doral opportunity I described earlier this deal involved approximately $158 million in debt instruments including CDD bonds traditional bank debt held by multiple banks and delinquent taxes.
We began our diligence on this opportunity in early 2010 and created a strategy to harness the enormous potential value of this asset.
During our diligence we uncovered that the encumbered collateral also included a 10-acre commercial property fronting a major Naples thoroughfare and a 1.5-acre marina in downtown Naples which in addition to the golf course community made this investment a no-brainer if we could put the pieces together.
We started negotiations with the various lenders and bondholders in 2010 acquired the bank debt and tax certificates in entirely 2011 and restructured and purchased the CDD in the first quarter of 2012.
Through a lot of hard work and tenacity we acquired at a significant discount one of the finest golf course communities in Florida and we'll have a multiyear highly profitable building program going forward.
I hope these 2 deals give you a sense of some of the unique investments we've been making.
While the land market has heated up recently we continue to see great opportunities out there.
We are still underwriting our new deals to exceed a 20% gross margin and a 20% IRR with no inflation.
To date we've been extremely pleased with the performance of our new land acquisitions.
During the first quarter approximately 45% of our deliveries came from communities purchased or put under control in the last 3 years.
Our gross margin on the closings in these deals continue to be 200 basis points higher than the overall company average.
Before I turn it over to Jon let me give you some final stats.
On a year-over-year basis our inventory increased about $428 million to approximately $4.3 billion and this excludes consolidated inventory not owned.
Our inventory during the first quarter increased about $317 million from the end of 2011.
At February 29 2012 we owned and controlled 117 086 homesites and had 426 active communities.
While our community count is down on a year-over-year basis it increased slightly during the first quarter.
As Stuart said we are focused more on community quality and not quantity.
This should be very clear from our operating results.
Nonetheless you should see our community count increase by about 5% to 10% by year end based on our land acquisition activity.
Finally I'd like to think our land acquisition staff across the country and in particular our team in Florida.
I have no doubt that we have the best team in the business.
Like to turn it over to Jon now.
Thank you Rick and good morning.
As Stuart noted we're very pleased with our first quarter results of a post-impairment 20.9% gross margin and 6% operating margin respectively 90- and 240-basis-point improvements.
This achievement was the result of continued intense focus by our management team on each of the component parts of our business.
I will speak to how once the land is in place we derive profitability by our management of product pricing direct cost and leveraging our operating structure.
To ensure that the homes we build are a great value to the homebuyer each land acquisition is underwritten with the strategy of executing our Everything's Included platform.
This means that what we have – that we have done the research to know exactly what we'll be offering in home designs square footages and included features that together present a great value to the homebuyer.
Lennar's Everything's Included approach not only continues to compete effectively against resales but also presents a great value to renters who are looking at the opportunity to buy a home.
This process combined with an improving sales environment enabled us to achieve a 33% year-over-year improvement in new orders without the aid of increased community count and while maintaining healthy gross margins.
Much of our sales strength in the first quarter continued to be driven by the strong performance of our well-located new communities where we achieved a higher sales pace compared to our legacy communities.
However we did begin to see improvement in these legacy communities midway and through the quarter in most of our markets.
New orders from our new communities increased to 48% of our Q1 orders up from 35% last year.
This quarter we experienced increase in higher quality traffic levels in our communities up from what we saw in the fourth quarter.
In the first quarter we saw a sequential improvement in new orders month-over-month and so far in March we are seeing continued strength similar to the absorption rates we saw at the end of the first quarter.
We are actively working with potential homebuyers on credit repair and reaching out to existing renters to educate them on the benefits of homeownership.
A good example of this is an event we recently held in Las Vegas.
To market our credit repair program and home purchase opportunities to renters we had a gourmet food truck challenge.
I don't know if the gourmet food truck craze has hit where you live yet but it is very strong in Vegas.
Our division held the event at a shopping center parking lot that is central to multiple rental communities.
In other words we went to where the potential customers live rather than spending advertising dollars trying to bring them to us.
Between our own social media efforts along with flyers postcards and door hangers the social media efforts of the food truck companies and drive-by traffic we had a tremendous turnout.
This led to hundreds of people registering with us many starting a credit repair process and visiting our communities.
Our mortgage company Universal American Mortgage Company was at the event working to help educate these potential buyers.
This was a great success an example of how we benefit from our strong and consistent relationship with UAMC.
As the market continues to recover and we begin to see sales prices improve we are also seeing adjustment on the cost side of our business.
We are optimistic that these cost pressures will be offset by sales price improvements as well as by some cost savings that are structural and long term.
It is for these reasons that we expect gross margins to remain level but we expect net operating margins to improve from our operating leverage.
We see this in the year-over-year first quarter comparisons of gross margin improvement from 20% to 20.9% while net margins improved from 3.6% to 6%.
As in the prior 5 quarters our current average direct cost of homes remains in the range of $40 to $42 per square foot.
We have a very thorough process of breaking down detailed cost in each of the items that make up a cost category onto an item master.
This allows us to negotiate price protection on specific items and to value engineer lasting improvements.
An example of this is with engineered wood products.
This would primarily be I-Joist and beams.
We've engineered more efficient home designs where the needs and values for engineered wood products are less.
This has allowed us to save $500 per home at the same time that the cost of engineered lumber has increased.
We are also focused intently on managing extras.
Extras are items charged to the builder beyond the contract amount.
With the benefit of greater detail provided by the unbundling process and Item Master we are able to create more accountability in managing extras.
This allows us to quickly adjust contracts scopes of work to eliminate these costs from the system.
As I said as sales prices increase -- sales prices improve there will be various fluctuations in some materials commodities and labor.
But our purchasing systems and processes combined with improving sales pricing will have us well positioned to maintain our gross margins.
This quarter we saw the ability to leverage our operating structure as the year-over-year 30% improvement in deliveries helped us achieve an SG&amp;A percentage of 14.9% a year-over-year 150-basis-point improvement.
We continue to maintain our intense management of SG&amp;A cost.
Similar to direct cost I believe that we have made structural changes that allow us to affect long-lasting savings as our volume increases.
We have in place a very strong management team that is organized in a simplified regional and divisional structure that will allow for growth with few additions to the structure.
I do want to note that in the first quarter we expensed overhead associated with our new Seattle and Portland operations but as I previously stated we will see deliveries from those operations in the back half of the year.
Across our divisions we are actively and intensely managing each of the components that make up our net operating margin.
I want to thank our associates for their focus and execution of each of these components of our business and achieving our ninth straight quarter of positive post-impairment operating margin.
Thank you.
And I would now like to turn it over to Jeff.
Thanks Jon and good morning everyone.
Before Bruce reviews the details behind Rialto's $9.4 million of operating earnings for the quarter along with the results for the rest of the company there were a few areas that might be helpful to touch on to give a little bit more perspective on what's going on at Rialto.
As an integral part of the Lennar story our focused Rialto team that now includes over 200 strong continues to push forward the resolution and value add of distressed and advantageously priced real estate assets.
Being able to integrate the unique talents and well-coordinated resources of the entire Lennar team has been and continues to be a unique advantage that has positioned Rialto extremely well.
Rialto currently has 3 areas from which it derives its revenue and earnings: PPIP our balance sheet portfolio investments and our fund business.
If you recall Rialto's first investment opportunity was our PPIP fund with AllianceBernstein and the U.S.
Treasury.
From inception this $4.6 billion funds mortgage-backed securities portfolio has produced a steady stream of interest income and fees on our $68 million investment that it's been at or above our expectations.
And during this past quarter as the capital markets gained new optimism about the fundamentals behind the home mortgage securities that back the lion's share of our investment portfolio we saw the mark-to-market on our investment regain about $8.4 million of value that had been marked down in prior quarters.
During the quarter we continued to create value from our second income generator our balance sheet distressed real estate portfolios.
These include our 2 FDIC transactions and our initial bank portfolio investments.
In addition to collecting $560 million in cash to date on these portfolios we have now repositioned over $1.6 billion of loans into owned real estate which includes developer homes land and all varieties of commercial properties across the country.
Our activities in these investments include adding property improvements paying legal fees in some cases the payment of several years of past-due property taxes the majority of which are nonrecurring.
Because most of these costs are expensed as incurred and revenue is recognized as properties are sold or collections are made from guarantors in the short run earnings from this portion of the business will have the tendency to be less predictable.
In this area while our revenues and earnings were less than prior quarters we remain comfortable we will produce the results we sought when we initially invested in these assets as we carefully manage their dispositions to maximize value.
In our third area our fund business as we mentioned last quarter and Stuart mentioned earlier our current exclusive investment vehicle is the Rialto real estate fund which now has $700 million of equity commitments from over 2 dozen different investor groups including $75 million from us.
The fund has been able to acquire or tie up over 30 different transactions and our pipeline of new investments continues to be strong.
We've already invested approximately $520 million of fund equity to acquire about $1.5 billion of assets based on unpaid principal balance for about $0.38 on the dollar.
About 3/4 of our fund investments so far have been distressed portfolios from regional and community banks CMBS special servicers and nonbank financial institutions.
The bulk of the remaining investments are in new issue CMBS securities with strong current cash flows where we found attractive pricing unlike any we have seen since the 1990s.
And through the end of the quarter the fund has already collected $65 million from interest principal and asset resolutions at levels significantly higher and sooner than originally anticipated.
Even with the most recent improvements in the capital markets lenders still remain under both internal and external pressure to dispose of distressed real estate assets as they try to get back into the lending business.
In addition with over $1 trillion of commercial real estate debt coming due in the next 3 years we expect to continue to see an abundance of opportunities that fit perfectly with our skill set and deep relationships that we have developed with a number of key sellers.
As a result we're currently focusing on bringing out our next investment vehicle.
We believe that these and future funds will not only help to enhance the company's returns and add consistent cash flow and earnings but will also be important building blocks for us to develop a first-class investment management business.
These are just a few of the reasons we remain excited about the continued progress of our Rialto franchise our current position in the marketplace and the synergies with the rest of the Lennar team.
And with that I'm going to turn it over to Bruce.
Thank you.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
Before I provide more details on our numbers I'd like to comment on our Financial Services segment which is always reported to our corporate office and has been run distinctly separate from our sales and homebuilding operations.
Our Financial Services business segment generated operating earnings of $8.3 million versus $1.2 million last year and this is the strongest first quarter operating earnings for our Financial Services in 5 years.
Our mortgage pretax income increased to $8.9 million from $3.4 million in the prior year.
And this quarter's mortgage originations increased by 33% to $743 million.
With the significant operating leverage in our mortgage operations this resulted in a 160% increase in pretax earnings.
Our in-house mortgage company had a capture rate of Lennar homebuyers of 78% in the first quarter.
The mortgage company's home loan advisors communicate with prospective Lennar homebuyers very early in the buying process and by understanding the homebuyer's ability to qualify for a mortgage this has helped Lennar's cancellation rate remain at very low levels.
This quarter's cancellation rate was 18%.
Having an effective mortgage company working with the homebuilder has led to consistency and dependability for homebuilding deliveries as noted by our consistent backlog conversion ratio that's been over 100% consistently.
The first quarter is historically the lowest volume quarter for the title company.
Our title company had a $100 000 loss in the first quarter but that improved compared to the $1.7 million loss in the prior year and this was a result of additional cost saving initiatives that were successfully implemented.
Approximately 10% of our title company transactions were with Lennar homebuyers and the remainder were with third parties.
The hard-working associates in our Financial Services segment have consolidated operations refined processes and are well positioned to see continued operating leverage as the housing market recovers.
Turning back to our overall results starting with homebuilding revenues from home sales increased 33% at $611 million driven by a 30% increase in wholly owned deliveries and a 3% increase in average sales price to $246 000.
The average sales price by region is as follows: the East region was $222 000 and that was up 3%; Southeast Florida region was $265 000 that was up 1%; Central was $220 000 that was up 4%; Houston was $230 000 up 3%; West was $317 000 up 5%; and other was $361 000 down 6%.
The gross margin on home sales that was reported at 20.9% in the first quarter was up 90 basis points to the prior year.
And as you remember in our last conference call we did provide a gross margin percentage range for 2012 of 19.5% to 21.5% before impairments.
We came in at the higher end of the range due to delivering a more favorable product mix of higher gross margin percent homes which includes an increasing percentage of deliveries from new communities which Rick touched on.
The gross margins were strongest in the East and Southeast Florida regions this quarter and sales incentives as a percentage of home sale revenue was consistent with our fourth quarter at 12.2% and up just slightly from last year's first quarter at 12.1% as a percentage of home sale revenue.
As a result of the strong gross margins and improvements in SG&amp;A that Jon talked about our homebuilding operating margins improved 240 basis points from the prior year to 6%.
This was the highest first quarter operating margin in 6 years.
Equity in earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries was $1.1 million versus $8.7 million in the prior year.
The large gain in the prior year was due to the company booking its share of a gain on debt extinguishment at one of the company's joint ventures partially offset by valuation adjustments.
Other income was $4.1 million versus $30 million in the prior year and the large gain in the prior year was due to $29.5 million of the $37.5 million litigation settlement which was included in the other income line.
Impairments declined significantly in this year's first quarter to only $2 million versus $22 million in the prior year's quarter.
Turning to our Rialto business segment they generated operating earnings of $9.4 million and this number is after adding back $4.3 million of net losses attributable to noncontrolling interest versus $11 million in the prior year.
The composition of Rialto's $9.4 million of operating earnings by type of investment is as follows: The FDIC portfolios had a $1.5 million loss non-FDIC portfolios had a $1.2 million loss PPIP contributed $11 million of earnings and the Rialto real estate fund contributed $7.6 million of earnings.
Then subtracting out $6.5 million of general and administration expenses and other which is net of management fees and reimbursements of $5.9 million you will get to the $9.4 million of operating earnings.
The negative $2.7 million contribution from the FDIC and non-FDIC portfolios this quarter are primarily due to 2 items: First as Jeff touched on revenue was impacted by the timing of deficiency collections and REO activity.
Second as REO inventory increased there is an acceleration of expenses relating to catching up on prior year's unpaid property taxes and legal expenses incurred to collect on deficiency judgments.
These results will vary from quarter to quarter due to the uneven timing of deficiency collections and REO activity.
Additionally we're in the process of petitioning to reduce property taxes on the REO properties going forward.
The $11 million of earnings this quarter from our investment in PPIP is reported as equity in earnings from unconsolidated entities the equity in earnings included net gains in the PPIP fund of $8.4 million which relates primarily to unrealized gains as a result of mark-to-market adjustments plus $2.6 million of interest income.
Our interest in the Rialto real estate fund is also reported as equity in earnings of unconsolidated entities and generated approximately $7.6 million of profits for the quarter in addition to the management fees highlighted above.
Rialto continues to generate strong cash flow and at quarter end the FDIC debt was paid down by $157 million reducing the outstanding FDIC debt to $470 million.
Additionally there was $185 million in the defeasance account and in Rialto's cash account combined to further retire debt.
The add back in calculating diluted earnings per share for our convertible securities was $2.9 million for this quarter.
And during the quarter our balance sheet remained strong.
We continued to have ample liquidity and our leverage remained low as our homebuilding debt to total capital net of the $800 million of cash was 49.6%.
During the quarter we raised an additional $50 million relating to the closing of the over-allotment portion of the 3.25% convertible senior notes.
Let me provide some more detail on our $4.3 billion of inventory.
Finished homesites during the quarter amounted to $576 million and our construction-in-progress account was $854 million totaling a combined $1.4 billion in that category.
Land and land under development was $2.9 billion.
We carefully managed our inventory during the quarter and we ended the quarter averaging 1.5 completed unsold homes per community.
There were 1 523 homes under construction that were sold and 2 293 unsold.
Active community count during the quarter ended at 426 versus 422 sequentially in our fourth quarter.
We opened 54 communities during the quarter and closed out of 50.
In conclusion we ended the quarter with our strongest quarterly backlog growth in about 10 years up 39%.
As this backlog converts to deliveries and we continue through 2012 we expect to see the significant operating leverage in our business translate into improving operating margins and profitability.
And with that let me turn it over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is coming from Ivy Zelman Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> My question relates to your comment Bruce on significant operating leverage and understanding if there's opportunity to elaborate on that.
And then just secondly as it relates to your cost structure a lot of people feel that Lennar's better than their peer average gross margins is related to their low lot cost basis and yet really the focus is on your strategy to provide Everything's Included versus homebuilders with design studios and I was wondering if you can quantify some of the cost savings that are attainable [ph] because of your strategy on providing Everything's Included and maybe differentiate the company in that respect from an operating perspective? Let me take the first part Ivy and then I'll turn it over to the operators to talk about your second part of the question.
When we talk about significant operating leverage when we have additional absorption per community the incremental operating margin goes up considerably.
So as you look at our gross margin if it was flat at 21% and with our SG&amp;A where it is today at 14.9% one more sale per community has an incremental SG&amp;A expense of about 4.5%.
So the incremental operating margin is approximately 16% as our absorption increases per community.
That's where the significant operating leverage is coming from and that's why we believe our operating margins will continue to grow as volume picks up.
Yes we really highlighted in our remarks that we focused on the quality of communities rather than quantity because that's where we pick up the greatest operating leverage.
If we can increase the number of sales per community as a first round of improvement we're going to start to see some real earnings strength out of that.
As to your second question...
Research Division</strong> That was not limited to just the SG&amp;A though correct? It's gross margin is benefiting as well? Well we're not commenting as aggressively on that.
We recognize that as prices go up some of the cost will go up as well.
We do think that there will be gross margin improvement as well.
But I think that we're going to wait and see how the market evolves for that.
But certainly the net margin benefits more dramatically.
As it relates to Everything's Included we've long believed that our EI platform is an efficient operating platform.
But even more so at the beginning of recovery and as the market remains a more value-oriented market at other times in a market cycle where there's pricing power and there's the ability to pass on the greater margins in options and extras I think the 2 platforms compete more favorably.
But at this point in the cycle we think that the Everything's Included platform really affords us the opportunity to keep our overhead carefully in line to keep our construction costs really at low levels to deliver the options and upgrades that people are looking for and that they place value on and to keep our pricing structure very value oriented so that it appeals to the greatest number of consumers.
And I think that operating strategy is an important component of what's driving our margins right now.
The next question is coming from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> My first question relates to your commentary about pricing.
I was particularly intrigued by that because it's something that we've observed in the marketplace as well the willingness and the ability of builders to put through price increases with an increase in volume.
Can you give us a sense for your strategy for implementing price increases? And can you provide a little bit more color as to how isolated the opportunities are to raise prices in the marketplace? And by price increases by the way I should specify I'm not just talking about nominal price increases I'm also talking about reduced incentives and increased lot premiums.
Stephen it's Jon.
That's a good point.
It comes in both forms the ability to increase prices as well as to reduce incentives.
It really varies at this point in the market recovery market by market.
We're seeing in some of our markets the ability to have perhaps over 50% of the community to be able achieve one of those advantages and then in other markets they're still in the 10% to 15% range.
But strategically we're trying to implement at least some level of price improvement so that we deliver that message of confidence both internally and externally.
From a strategy standpoint Steve we look at each community as a separate profit center and we know from looking at the market demand where the lines cross with regard to pushing absorption versus raising prices.
In communities where we have a longer land position we benefit more by increasing the prices getting the appraisals up because our margins will be better on a long-term basis.
So we look at each one individually.
Across the board we have instituted price increases in probably most of the communities or taken incentives down.
There's a handful of ones that are still a little bit challenged from a price standpoint but we will be aggressively moving prices particularly because it allows us to pull people off of the fence.
And additionally land is harder and harder to replace.
We don't want to leave opportunity on the table by selling through quickly land positions that are particularly well located.
Research Division</strong> Yes all of that makes a tremendous amount of sense.
Follow-up question relates to your commentary about incremental margin.
I think you said somewhere in the vicinity of 16.5% incremental operating margin.
You were talking primarily there on the power of leveraging of SG&amp;A it seems like.
I was curious as to whether you could comment on your -- the degree to which that incremental margin may actually be higher as you migrate into communities which are not Everything's Included or if in fact it would have a negative impact on your contribution margin.
What is your view on how an Everything's Included strategy and the extremely high backlog conversion ratio that comes with that would contrast with a more standard kind of option-type package as we go forward? Well let's see if I can break that down.
The 16% incremental margin derives from additional deliveries in existing communities.
And so it's where we're growing from 2 sales per month to 3 sales per month the incremental overhead is very very small relative to the 15-ish percent that we're running right now.
And so we see a tremendous amount of leverage in the growth of sales per community.
So certainly within the community there wouldn't be an introduction of a different operating platform.
But right now all of our communities in at least some modified way are operating under an EI Everything's Included platform.
And so we wouldn't have a sense of -- or a good sense of what the differentiation or the differential in overhead would be for a design studio or option-based program.
And I wouldn't venture that guess.
I would also highlight I don't mean to strike a competitive note here I think that there are operators out there that can operate a design studio approach.
In our world we think that EI is more efficient.
The main benefit Steve from an EI platform really comes through the cost side.
We can negotiate better costs on the materials.
There's increased cycle time with regarding delivery.
There's less mistakes from the trade standpoint in putting the options or upgrades in the wrong location in the home.
So it's speed of delivery and the cost of having that asset for the time period that it's on your books.
But just to add to that the EI program also does not necessitate a design studio facility.
And sometimes the people overhead associated with that.
So it's both on the cost side and the G&amp;A side.
The next question is coming from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> First question I just had was on the sales pace a lot of success there and it looks like roughly about 40% up year-over-year.
You had mentioned in your prepared remarks that referring to March that you see continued strength and similar to the sales pace at the end of the quarter.
Was just curious if the sales pace improved throughout the quarter and we should be looking for even we're talking about March being higher than the quarter average and if it's possible to kind of give us a degree of magnitude and regionally what's driving that? Well I think if you look at the first quarter starts off in December which is impacted by the holidays.
And so as I said we did see that improvement sequentially through the quarter and so far March is evidencing consistency with what we saw in February which was...
Research Division</strong> But I guess I'm talking about a year-over-year not -- sorry to interrupt but not just sequentially I'm thinking.
Yes both sequentially and year-over-year on a month-to-month basis we saw improvement throughout the quarter with February being the strongest month of the quarter.
And I think what Jon was trying to highlight is we're seeing similar strength in the stub period so far in March with the strength of the quarter that we had.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Second question on the DTA Bruce just trying to get an update on that.
I believe last quarter you said it's and correct me if I'm wrong but something that you might be looking at on a quarter-to-quarter basis and doesn't necessarily have to be reversed at the end of your fiscal year.
Is that still the case? And can you give us any updated thinking about that in terms of maybe what hurdles you need to cross to get that back on the balance sheet? Sure.
As we came out of the end of the year the feeling was that we needed more discernible evidence that housing was recovering and the feeling was that we needed to give some time to go through the spring to see if that's the case.
That was the biggest item.
So if the company keeps its performance up and housing recovers through the spring similar to what we're seeing here in February and March I think there's a good chance that we'll be able to reverse the DTA as early as the second quarter but certainly we believe it will happen within this year.
Just as a kind of reminder what we said is that the reversal of the DTA was more a question of the macro market than it was focused just on Lennar specific in our case.
We've been able to demonstrate profitability for an extended period of time now.
The question that still has been an overhang has been that of where is the macro market going? And I think as there is more evidence of stability in the marketplace the reversal of the DTA will become more certain.
The next question is coming from Stephen East of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> The overview in your prepared comments was really helpful.
It answered a lot of the questions I think.
So on the land side beyond what you talked about right now is the profitability that you're seeing in the deals today similar to what you saw what you had at least pro forma over the last 3 years that are part of the 48% of your sales right now? It depends on the deal.
Clearly the deals that are option oriented finished home site the margins are less in those opportunities.
To the extent that we're doing transactions that incorporate bond purchases and things that are more complicated we're still seeing great margins in those opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if we look at the cash you all did spend a lot on development.
You've got some debt due in coming in '13 and '14.
Your equity is run a lot.
You still it sounds like have a lot of opportunities to buy more land.
Where do you think you wind up this year in cash and how do you envision either retiring or rolling your debt that you got coming in '13 and '14? Stephen this is Bruce.
We feel very comfortable with our cash position today.
The ending cash balance at the end of the year is going to be dependent on the additional opportunities we see with respect to land purchases through the year what we decide to go forward with or not as well as whether or not we have a revolving credit facility in place which we do expect is likely to come soon.
So we feel pretty comfortable on the liquidity side and on the debt maturity ladder side you can expect that we'll continue to push out debt maturities or we'll use cash to pay down upcoming maturities.
Additionally I just want to highlight that I've noted in my comments this morning and before that as we get towards the end of this year we expect that some of the earlier investments that were made on balance sheet through Rialto will begin to cash flow more consistently.
That's beyond the earnings statement pure cash flow that cash will start return to corporate.
So that really helps our cash position as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay I've got you.
If you look at the earnings power for Rialto in '12 or '13 can you put any type of framework around that? Well Rialto as we've noted so many times before is very difficult to put a number on.
It's in large part because it is an opportunistic business where we focus on maximizing profitability from the assets that we've purchased.
And as markets start to recover the assets that we currently have accumulate greater value and we want to carefully manage to maximize the return.
So it's a lot of a timing issue Stephen and we're just – we're going to avoid giving guidance but say that we're continuing to be very comfortable with the underwriting that we began with and where Rialto is going.
The next question is coming from Bob Wetenhall of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question massive increase in sales I was hoping maybe Bruce could give us some insight into what your thinking would be a normalized level of SG&amp;A spending if orders remain in the current trajectory? Well let me just say Bob that if you go back over the last decade before the peak we were used to running our SG&amp;A expenses as a percent of home sales in the 10% range.
So once you get back to a normalized let's say around 4 per community per month that's where we would expect to get to as far as our SG&amp;A levels.
Now we're not currently at the 4 per month but that's where we expect to get to.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is that something that's realistic to expect by end of year? It depends on the market.
It's hard to tell.
The trend is going in the right direction whether or not we get to a normalized pace by the end of the year we'll have to wait and see.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I think in the prepared remarks it was noted that 45% of unit count that's being sold was purchased on land that was acquired in 2009 or afterwards.
I wanted to understand what do you think by year end that mix shift will be will it be 50% or 60% or do you have an idea that you could provide us? It'll be probably just shy of 50%.
The next question is coming from David Goldberg of UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question Stuart in past conversations and I think on the last call you talked about mortgage market liquidity.
You talked about underwriting standards and there seemed to be some optimism that underwriting standards might loosen as we look forward.
Now it doesn't feel to us like we've seen much change in underwriting in the past 3 months.
I'm wondering if you're more optimistic than you've been before that you're going to start to see maybe looser underwriting as we move through the year? Well that's a tricky question David.
You've seen FHA come out with new standards that are really going in the opposite direction where we think there's going to be some tightening down.
So it's going to be a mixed picture.
I do think we're going to see some reversion to normalized underwriting standards.
It wasn't too long ago that someone that didn't have a 700 FICO score just wasn't going to get an approval.
And in today's world we are seeing approvals with lower FICO scores.
Now there are a lot more details that go into all of that.
But the movement has been in the direction towards a more normalized underwriting standard.
With that said there will be some tightening at the margin.
The market will adjust.
I think that the driver today relative to mortgages and demand in general is the fact that the appetite for people to move back into for-sale housing is very strong.
And customers are starting to alter their credit landscape their personal credit landscape and whether it means getting some additional savings for additional down payment getting a gift from parents to afford additional down payment cleaning up their credit card balances improving their credit scores getting past the 2-year window for a short sale or 3-year for a foreclosure.
Whatever it is people are pushing hard today harder today to fit within the windows of credit standards and credit standards are getting more towards normal.
So it's hard to really say that there's going to be loosening or how it's going to loosen.
But it seems that the pressure from the market together with the lending world's moderation is going to get us to a better demand picture.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
My follow-up and maybe this is for Rick and realize this is kind of a -- maybe a vague question or difficult question to ask but a lot of folks are looking at the new land acquisitions and talking about margin trends on new land acquisitions and pricing.
I was hoping we could think about bit a different way of the land that you kind of put under contract of either option or you've bought outright in the last say x quarters whatever you want to say I'm wondering what percentage of it do you think is deemed bought below replacement cost? In other words the 200 basis point of additional gross margin you're getting on new lots versus old lots how much of that is just because the market is giving you enough distressed opportunities to buy land below replacement cost? And at some point in the future possibly if we ever saw land prices go back to replacement cost without home price appreciation that would just come from land prices going up essentially would cut down some of that margin? Well it's a very interesting question because at some point in the cycle we're going to come across some of the communities where you can buy the asset still at a price that's lower than what the infrastructure cost is on that's put into that community.
But they just don't pencil out yet today.
The thing to keep in mind as you look at our land purchases and this may be different for some of the competitors out there is the pipeline of activity that we've had as I highlighted today these deals that came on in the first quarter were really priced and brought on 2 years ago.
So this 3 500 4 500 homesites of things that really came on in Q1 were priced a long time ago.
So were going to get the benefit of that gross margin differential for a while.
As we look forward depending on what is happening in the sales environment and price appreciation which will come as there's more and more activity and homebuyers are out there we think it'll get to be more of a normalized land environment where you can make a good building margin and you make your margin extra margin when you do some development.
The next question is coming from Jade Rahmani KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a broader market question.
Do you believe new home sales could start to evidence the potential to eventually outperform resales as evidenced either through your results or other major builders? Do you think this is a function of communities that you're able to open in better markets? Because over the past 2 years we've seen the share of new home sales fall to below historic normal levels just how do you view this market developing? Well look we're going to have to let the market unfold a little bit to see how it actually works out but there are a lot of existing homes on the market right now in secondary locations that are trading at very low prices.
There's still a tremendous amount of investor activity in the inner-city and outer city locations that is driving volume of existing home sales.
I think that as new homes are developed in and around the pockets of real activity where supply is constrained new homes will start to regain their footing relative to existing homes.
You're right in terms of number both in terms of number and in terms of pricing new homes have kind of lagged position relative to existing homes or their historic position relative to existing homes.
We think it feels like that trend is starting to turn a little bit but we're going to have to give it a little bit of time to see.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on raw materials a clarification does your gross margin guidance account for potential price increases you're seeing? And what kind of visibility do have into construction costs a couple of quarters from now? As I noted we believe that with price improvement our sales price combined with our purchasing program where we've built in long-lasting value engineered opportunities that we'll be able to offset that pricing pressure.
So we see margins relatively staying in a range as we look forward 19.5% to 21% and being able to offset that pressure that you talked about.
The next question is coming from Jack Micenko of SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Most have been asked and answered.
Just wanted to revisit the Rialto REO expense line for a minute.
I know it's lumpy.
I know it's hard to predict I know it's -- you don't know what's coming in and it's part of the strategy.
But the $12 million number is that -- I'm trying to figure out how much of that is maybe some catch up or was there an accrual in there? Or should we think about that number being a real number a real part of the cost structure going forward at least until you begin to slow down and do more restructuring versus REO? Well there clearly is a -- this is Jeff.
There clearly is a catch-up component to that because when you take title to some of these assets you do have your prior year taxes that you're going to pay and then there's also improvement cost that you might put in in order to get the assets ready for sale.
So some of that is upfront.
Some of that is upfront expense.
LLLP Research Division</strong> There's no way to quantify what maybe percentage of the mix that would have been in the quarter or anything like that? No not really.
But the property tax component the majority of that does relate to prior year's taxes.
So clearly that's not a recurring piece.
But it's a little hard to try to quantify what a run rate is if that's what you're trying to get to.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes that's what we were looking at.
And then just real quick as a follow-up can you compare average down payment and FICO in this quarter on the orders versus maybe a year ago? Versus a year ago there hasn't been much change.
It's remained in the low 700s.
It's been very consistent over the last year not much change and down payment hasn't changed overall for the company average either.
It's been very consistent over the last year.
The next question is coming from Adam Rudiger of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just want to get a better understanding of gross margin.
Bruce was the $2 million of impairments you've mentioned was that in cost of goods? That's all in cost of goods this year.
That's correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> And so if I were to adjust last year's gross margin and this year's gross margin to reflect those and just look at a pre-impairment gross margin year-over-year looks like it was pretty flat yet you had some real solid revenue growth and incentives were flat.
So I was wondering if you could just address what some of the negative offsets were year-over-year within cost of goods? So if you were to strip out the $2 million the gross margin was 21.3% versus prior year's pre-impairment was 21.1%.
So it was at the high end of the range that we've given and it's up about 20 basis points over last year if you were to strip out impairments.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
What I was getting at -- I would have expected given the revenue increase maybe a little bit more expansion so I was just wondering what the negative offsets were to the operating leverage on the revenue side? So first quarter did increase as far as revenue goes but I think that's at the high end of the expectations that we had.
So I wouldn't really view that there were any negatives that came through this quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I ask you on backlog it's the highest it's been really in -- since 2008 and so I would think your ability now to cover your fixed costs out of backlog is going to be a lot improved and in some ways that could negate a bit the need to build spec home and do the even floor production a little bit.
So I was wondering if as the backlog stays at this level or continues to grow should we expect any decline in spec building or decline in backlog turnover? Actually if you look at the statistics I gave this quarter you did see a decline in terms of the number of homes under construction that are unsold.
So we are starting to see that which is very helpful because incentives tend to be a little bit lower on homes that are sold before they're started.
So this quarter again there were 1 523 homes under construction that were sold and 2 293 that were unsold.
That's a higher percentage of sold homes than we've seen in quite a while.
This is Jon.
If the trend continues and we're able to continue to build backlog and what you're saying we'll start to see more evidence of we'll be able to grow our margins more effectively greater backlog and less pressure on moving spec inventory quickly.
The next question is coming from Megan McGrath MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick follow-up questions.
I wanted to ask you a little bit on appraisals we're hearing from some builders that it does feel like appraisals are moving in your direction recently maybe because of lower REO inventory.
So I'd love to hear your take on that and if that's one of the reasons you feel like you're getting some pricing power back into the market? I think in most markets we are seeing a lessening of the issue with appraisals coming in.
There tends to be some differences in markets or in type of appraisal.
A VA appraisal is different than some of the other ones.
But generally speaking we are seeing an improvement and less issues at the closing.
It's kind of a natural phenomenon in the better markets.
There are fewer distressed sales to be found nearby so you're going to have better comps included in the appraisal and we're definitely seeing less issue with appraisals.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just sort of a bigger picture question.
We've heard probably over the past 6 or 9 months about builders sort of shifting away from the first-time buyer and more to the move-up buyer but some of the comments you make about household formation improving and getting better make me -- and about the anecdotal story about someone moving out of their parent's basement makes me think that the incremental buyer really is the first-time buyer.
Is that true? And do you want to stay more focused on the first-time buyer? Or how do you see your product mix changing over the next year? Well we feel that a well-balanced program between both buyer groups is the way to really be because there's going to be constant movement from first to second and what we're really focused on is finding the right communities for the people that are buying homes whether it's first or second.
There's no question that there is pent-up demand on the first-time buyer program.
But you got to be really careful to make sure that you're positioning your product in the right locations and have it priced at a point where they can qualify for those loans.
And I just want to highlight that we didn't say that they were living in the basement.
And our last question is coming from Dan Oppenheim Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Was wondering if you can talk a bit about the opportunity for Rialto as you see it.
You had the business for several years now.
Environment's getting a bit better credit's more available and more competition out there how much more do you see in terms of the opportunity for that business and the capital that you have if you can describe that start with that? Yes I think I -- this is Jeff.
I mentioned I touched on it a little bit in the prepared remarks and the fact that in terms of the pressure a lot of these lenders want to get back into the lending business and they still have a lot of these assets that are still overhanging.
So we see the distressed side of the business on the opportunistic side continuing for some period of time.
But while saying that we also see sort of a reformation of the capital markets and a lot of the skills that Rialto has developed just is very similar to what we did back in the days of LNR.
A lot of those skills apply as the markets come out and as capital market reform in terms of being a liquidity provider and using those same skill sets in terms of making nonperforming loans perform again or dealing with the underlying real estate.
So we see it as a growing opportunity.
There's still 3 -- there's still over the next 3 years $1 trillion of commercial real estate debt that's going to be coming due.
And something's got to be done with all of it.
But with that said Dan I think you properly highlight that distress is a depleting opportunity base.
And we've recognized that from the beginning.
Rialto and its distressed program is a terrific platform on which to build a management team and an operating group that is well prepared to pivot into very different lines of business.
You're already seeing that with our entry back into the CMBS business.
Within the opportunity fund we're buying B pieces as we did in the old LNR days.
And we're starting to grow new business lines that will take the place of the existing distressed business but build on the strength of the management team that has been put together in that context.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I guess one final thing was wondering in terms of the focus in terms of the homebuilding operations when you think about the potential for incremental margins by improvement in absorption versus working to lift pricing in some of these communities how are you balancing that in terms of just where would you like to get that in terms of the sales per community? Or is it now shifting in terms of at this level you're pushing more in terms of price versus the absorption? This is Jon.
It will – as we've said it will vary community by community.
Where land positions are tight we'll look to obviously maximize price as much as possible and find that balance of a norm absorption of one a week.
To having pricing pressure I think you'll see as the markets continue to recover we'll have the ability to both improve pricing and absorptions but we will look at it on a community-by-community basis to be able to maximize our profitability.
Okay.
So listen thanks everyone for joining us for our first quarter review.
I know we took a little bit more time but we felt that given the way that the national debt is being reported and some of the questions that you all have voiced it was worth spending a little bit of extra time.
If there are additional questions of course you can give us a call.
We appreciate your attention.
Thank you.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to Lennar's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Allison Bober for the reading of the forward-looking statement.
Good morning.
Today's conference call may include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to Lennar's future business and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements may include statements regarding Lennar's business financial conditions results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar's estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could cause Lennar's actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar's annual report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our second quarter 2012 update.
We're very pleased to detail our results for you this morning and we have a lot of ground to cover.
As always I'm joined this morning by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; Diane Bessette our Vice President and Treasurer; David Collins our Controller.
Additionally Rick Beckwitt our President; Jon Jaffe our Chief Operating Officer; and Jeff Krasnoff Chief Executive Officer of our Rialto segment are here to participate as well and of course you just heard from Allison Bober.
I'm going to begin this morning with some brief opening remarks about the state of the current housing market in general and about our second quarter results and then Rick and Jon will comment on specific aspects of Lennar's Homebuilding operations.
And Jeff will update performance on our Rialto segment.
David Collins is going to also give a 5-minute primer on our deferred tax asset reversal.
And finally Bruce will provide detail on our first quarter numbers.
After Bruce of course we'll open the phone lines to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] So as I sit here today I couldn't be more pleased with the progress that our company has made and continues to make as we work through this historic downturn.
The associates throughout our company have worked tirelessly to pull through the toughest of times to revamp our business from top to bottom and to move forward to stable profitability.
The reversal of our deferred tax asset reserve this quarter is really a tacit recognition of a job well done and it's symbolic of having accomplished a great deal to bring Lennar back to a strong go-forward position.
And in that regard I want to thank all of the associates of our company for their commitment and care which are at the core of the culture of our company.
The reversal of our deferred tax asset reserve this quarter is as I noted before really symbolic rather than a significant financial event.
It represents that the company has really achieved a stabilized financial condition consistent profitability and even a modicum of visibility as well.
It also represents that the macro housing market has stabilized has most likely bottomed and perhaps is beginning the road to recovery.
I've noted over the last few quarters that we've been seeing consistent improvement in both traffic and demand activity in our communities.
This has acted as confirmation that both the housing market and the overall economy are stabilizing and that a very real trend is beginning to take shape.
The overall housing market is different now than it has been in the past several years.
There are discernible fundamental shifts that are driving the home market and there are empirical data points that are to date confirming the market is really showing signs of stability.
With that said and as we saw from yesterday's Case-Shiller information and last week's home sales data the housing market is not yet in full recovery as the actual data is still slightly negative in some instances.
In fact the stabilization process after a full 7-year decline in housing is still somewhat rocky and erratic and is certainly not yet broad-based.
Our management team has just completed our quarterly operations review with all of our division presidents.
Let me tell you what we're seeing in the field and how we're thinking about the market versus national numbers that are being reported.
We're seeing that various important themes are primary drivers of today's housing market.
First today's consumers looking at the home purchase differently than in past years.
Today's buyers are looking for real value as defined by low purchase price low interest rate and affordable and competitive monthly payments.
The home purchase is not seen as a place to invest savings in order to ride the wave of price increases.
Since home prices and volumes are low and interest rates are at historic lows affordability is at extremely high levels.
Today's consumers are realizing that housing represents an undeniable value proposition.
They are finding real value in today's for-sale housing and we're hearing this from them regularly in the field.
Accordingly for the past few quarters now we've been experiencing more traffic in our Welcome Home Centers and customers are actively discussing their desire to find a way to purchase and capitalize on current market conditions.
A second trend is that purchasers are beginning to feel pressure to make the home purchase so that they do not miss this moment in time.
The feeling of missing the boat is becoming a common discussion and is being reinforced by discussion with family and friends.
Buying a home -- buying and owning a home is not only no longer taboo at the dining room table it is being viewed as a measure of financial stability again.
This trend will continue to drive demand and sentiment as more data becomes positive as the press continues to highlight recovery and as inventory in the field continues to deplete.
Next consumers are becoming acutely aware of the comparative value in monthly payments and a mortgage monthly payment versus a rental monthly payment.
The fully loaded cost of ownership is simply lower in most desirable markets than comparable rental rates.
As I've noted in past conference calls we have and continue to carefully study this trend and continue to find that in local competitive markets principal interest taxes insurance community association and lawn care are together lower than the competitive rental market.
Today for-sale housing represents an excellent value proposition on a pure monthly payment basis versus renting.
Rental prices are high and they've been moving up as well.
Today's consumer is looking for living cost stability as well as a stable and safe place to raise the family.
Accordingly today's housing consumer is seeking to avoid the rental market and the annual repricing inherent in rental rates.
Fourth consumers recognize that the mortgage approval process is extremely conservative and it is very difficult to get approved.
Expectations are aligning with the new realities of the mortgage market and consumers desirous of purchasing and getting approved are becoming more realistically in touch with their own credit credentials in order to be approved.
Rather than fighting the process and leaving in frustration consumers are working within today's parameters to provide the burdensome paperwork accumulate the required money down and enhance their credit credentials to get to the finish line.
Fifth inventories are declining.
While there might be national statistics that suggest otherwise or suggest that foreclosure backlog and delinquencies are still a looming problem we are finding that inventory overhang is diminishing in many markets and that available for-sale housing is becoming more scarce.
Additionally with the government's recasting of HARP 2.0 that is the home refinance program for performing but underwater loan there are far fewer strategic defaults as more owners are refinancing and appreciating a lower monthly payment.
Finally improvement in employment and consumer confidence is finally translating into the end of negative household formation.
The trend of children moving home and elderly parents moving in with children is at least slowing and starting to reverse.
Over time this trend will be an even more powerful driver of demand.
I have always noted that it is generally 6 to 12 months after households double up that everyone realizes that this was just not a good idea.
As the economy improves doubled-up households can afford to unwind and this is beginning to happen.
Overall demand has been improving and we've seen consistent sales pace at stabilized prices through our second quarter as a continuation of a trend from our prior quarters.
Our steady traffic and sales rate indicate stronger demand trends than prior years and we have seen an increase in our monthly sales per community as well.
And these improved results are coming with prices and margins that are consistent or marginally better than our current deliveries indicating that we are not and have not been reaching for volume.
With these trends identified I do not want to overstate the case for housing.
While the trend is discernibly positive stabilization and recovery are uneven across the country and even within markets.
The housing depression was a national phenomenon while the recovery is decidedly very local.
We're seeing pockets of activity develop across the country not by region or by state but on a very localized basis.
And these pockets are recovering while the broader market outside of these pockets often remains weak.
But at present these pockets are growing.
Additionally demand remains constrained by the mortgage qualification standards and processes and a difficult appraisal environment that define today's mortgage market that has been overcorrected by the severity of the downturn.
But demand is growing and more and more customers are pushing to fit within the boundaries of credit standards while the government has recognized that the pendulum has swung too far and is pushing for some loosening of credit standards as well.
Let me briefly turn to Lennar specifically as our management team will give additional color on our results.
In our second quarter we saw fundamental improvement in all of the building blocks that define our Homebuilding and Financial Services operations while Rialto continued to build and augment its blue-chip operating platform.
Each of our operating segments has remained profitable in the second quarter as our associates across the country are executing on all fronts.
On the homebuilding front closings were up 20%.
New orders increased 40%.
Our backlog improved 61% and gross margins of 22.5% translated into our healthy operating margin of 9.2% as SG&amp;A declined to 13.2%.
We're beginning to see the impact of the operating leverage that we expected as the market stabilizes.
As we look ahead to future quarters our strategy of focusing on high margins in well-positioned communities will continue to be the primary engine that drives SG&amp;A operating leverage that will continue to produce strong and sustainable bottom line earnings.
Lennar's Homebuilding operations are operating soundly and are defined by excellent hands-on management running the day-to-day activities while excellent new communities are identified and added to each division.
Lennar Financial Services had another excellent quarter as well leveraging the core Homebuilding business providing excellent service to our customers and adding incremental volume by participating in the refinance market as well.
In the second quarter Rialto continued to be a central part of the improving Lennar story.
While current earnings of $4.3 million fell short of our expectations the contribution that our Rialto connections and relationships have made to our core Homebuilding business has exceeded every expectation we had when we began to grow this business.
In this regard I have to highlight the credible work of Eric Feder who has been the bridge between Rialto and Lennar managers and has maximized the synergy.
The Rialto franchise will continue to be a significant source of valuable homebuilding deals for some time to come while the base Rialto business ramps its earnings.
As we look ahead Rialto should continue to be a solid earnings contributor for Lennar and will begin to return cash to corporate as it is now investing self-generated funds.
I would be remiss if I did not briefly address the recent press coverage on a financing deal with a Chinese bank on our Hunters Point and Treasure Island partnerships.
While we do not comment on deals that are in negotiation or not closed I will say that we have a great number of very exciting dealings around various strategic assets that will reveal themselves over time.
Of course we will make material announcements as appropriate.
All in all our second quarter 2012 results mark an excellent stepping stone to our future performance.
We're feeling more and more comfortable that the current trend is not an aberration but the beginning of a new cycle for housing.
This sense derives from extensive feedback from our people in the field and from the nature of the shift in the consumers' mindset.
As I look ahead to the remainder of this year and towards 2013 I am increasingly optimistic that we are seeing a real bottom in housing and that we will continue to see signs of recovery.
National statistics and news will give us some mixed signals as we move through the year as they represent a compendium of all of the best and the worst markets around the country.
But I feel that stabilization and recovery will emanate from the most desirable markets and spread outward over time.
Lennar is positioned with a strong balance sheet is in the right markets with an exceptional management team and a well-constructed strategy to perform solidly as market conditions continue to improve.
All of the segments of our company are performing well and are extremely well positioned as you will now hear from our operating team.
Rick? Thanks Stuart.
We are really pleased with our operating results this quarter.
These results were driven by both the well-executed land acquisition strategy and a fine-tuned homebuilding machine.
I'm going to review our land activities and explain why Lennar is positioned to succeed in today's land market.
Jon is then going to discuss our building activities and how we maximize our gross and operating margins.
During the first quarter we continued to focus on acquiring or auctioning new homesites that would have a positive impact on our bottom line.
This quarter we purchased 4 561 homesites for $206 million and we spent $81 million on land development.
Combined our land acquisition and land development spend was up about 74% over the prior-year period.
In addition we signed option contracts to acquire 1 597 homesites.
From a geographic standpoint approximately 29% of our land purchases in the second quarter are located in the mid-Atlantic 23% in the West 22% in Texas 14% in Florida 7% in the Pacific Northwest with the remaining 5% spread throughout our other markets.
The lion's share of our new land deals were sourced outside of a competitive bid environment and were relationship-based deals.
As in prior quarters money was invested geographically in the markets where we saw the best opportunities.
In Q2 we continue to acquire great deals in Florida and Texas but invested more heavily in some extremely high-margin opportunities in California and the mid-Atlantic.
You will continue to see quarter-to-quarter changes in the geographic mix of our land purchases as we capitalize on the best opportunities out there.
While the land market has heated up recently our pipeline of land that we're actively negotiating is robust.
More importantly over the last several quarters we put under contract or letter of intent over 24 000 homesites that have yet to close.
And you should note that since these homesites are still in the diligence process that they are not included in our homesite owned or controlled total that I will give you later.
Consistent with our prior land purchases these land deals have been underwritten to exceed a 20% gross margin and a 20% IRR with no inflation.
To date we've been extremely pleased with the performance of our new communities.
During the second quarter approximately 48% of our deliveries came from communities purchased or put under contract during the last 3 years.
Our gross margins on closings in these communities was approximately 200 basis points higher than the gross margin for the entire company in the second quarter.
By this point it should be clear that we've invested wisely.
The numbers truly speak for themselves.
And as the housing markets recover we believe we will continue to outperform the industry given our expertise in land acquisition.
Let me explain why we will continue to be successful and how we are different from our competition.
Number one is sourcing.
We are fishing in a different pond.
We have created many deep-rooted relationships with banks and other local sellers that provide us access to deals that are not on the open market.
Number two is speed.
We move quickly to assess analyze and respond to new opportunities.
We digest information quickly and we have a streamlined approach to tying up a deal.
We respond immediately to contract issues and can get a deal signed faster than anyone else.
We are business people and don't let our lawyers control the deal.
Expertise.
Our key land associates have the knowledge and ability to negotiate complex deals.
We do not shy away from complicated deal structures.
We have the financial strength of a large company but the agility and expertise of sophisticated private investors.
We are not a big bureaucratic organization where the deal needs to fit within a box.
Fourth is credibility.
Our due diligence process is systematic thorough and effective.
We commit to understanding the issues while we're pursuing the deal.
Thus when we sign a contract we very rarely have to renegotiate because we took time to understand the facts and nuances of the deal upfront.
This no re-trade credibility has given us the reputation of a company that gets deals done.
In turn we have become a preferred buyer.
Fifth is persistence.
When we identify a deal we will pursue it until there's absolutely no chance that we will not get it.
We do not accept the first "no" as an answer and we will relentlessly pursue the deal constantly reviewing whether there is an alternative deal structure that can turn the "no" into a "maybe" and ultimately a "yes." Sixth is performance.
Our consistent operating performance gives us the ability to engage sellers at a different level.
Our execution in opening communities and driving traffic as well as our product selection and EI platform differentiates us from other builders.
This tends to give us a first look at deals and often makes us a perfect builder in a multi-builder community.
And seventh is Rialto.
We buy more than just land.
We have the expertise to buy assets that will turn into land such as CDD bonds and bank notes and mortgages.
This provides us a constant stream of high-margin opportunities.
No other homebuilder has this depth of experience.
Let me give you a few examples of how these factors have positioned us to succeed.
Recently another public builder signed a deal with a local developer for the first phase of homesites in a very large multi-phase community.
Through our Rialto connection we learned that a bank owned other homesites in the community and we approached the developer to jointly purchase these homesites.
As partners in a very small piece of the community and with 24/7 access to the developer we built a close relationship with the developer and secured a key opportunity in the balance of this multiphase deal.
The critical elements here were the Rialto connection the relentless pursuit and creative approach to finding a way into a deal that someone else controlled the relationship we built with the developer and the strong performance of the initial partnership.
In another transaction an out-of-state bank foreclosed on the last section of a very desirable community.
They approached several buyers with a very complicated deal terms and a short diligence period.
Many builders balked at the deal due to its complexity while others according to the bank wasted a great deal of the bank's time trying to understand the issues.
Our team was successful not because we paid top dollar because we didn't.
We got the deal done because we had the financial acumen and intellectual capacity to get it done quickly.
As a result we have positioned Lennar as the go-to company for deals in that market.
My last example has to do with CDD bonds.
On previous conference calls I've described that we've actively pursued bond purchases as a way to back into underlying real estate.
Because of the relationships we've developed over the last 2 years with the holders of the bonds we're often contacted by them when they want to sell their positions.
These positions tend to trade very quickly and the purchase requires a unique knowledge of bonds foreclosures and entitlements.
We have this expertise in Rialto and in our Homebuilding divisions so we can immediately react to these first-look opportunities.
Before I turn it over to Jon let me give you some final stats.
On a year-over-year basis our Q2 inventory increased about $557 million to approximately $4.4 billion.
And this excludes consolidated inventory not owned.
Sequentially our inventory during Q2 increased about $145 million from Q1.
At May 31 2012 we owned and controlled 121 517 homesites and had 440 active communities.
I'd like to turn it over to Jon.
Thank you Rick and good morning.
As Stuart noted we're very pleased with our second quarter results of a post impairment 22.5% gross margins and 9.2% operating margin.
I will speak to how we continue to drive bottom line profitability through our management of pricing product direct costs and operating structure leverage.
Our operational focus of balancing sales price and pace starts by first stabilizing pricing community by community.
Then we focus on increasing the pace of sales creating positive momentum.
It is this momentum that enabled us to lower incentives and/or raise prices this quarter.
This resulted in new orders of 4 481 improvement of 40% year-over-year and 48% sequentially over Q1.
For the prior 4 quarters sales were stabilized at 2.4 sales per community per month.
This quarter we increased our sales pace to 3.5 sales per month.
Incentives were down to 10.7% a year-over-year 140-basis-point improvement.
This was primarily due to the improved rate of sales and a higher percentage of the homes sold prior to starting construction.
Our backlog grew to 3 970 homes up 61% year-over-year and 46% sequentially.
With this rapid increase in our backlog sold homes now represent 48% of total homes under construction.
That combined with a material increase in the number of pre-sold homes we expect that our backlog conversion ratio will dip below 100% in Q3.
Our newer communities with higher gross margins and absorption continue to capture a greater share of our deliveries and sales.
However one of the keys for our margin and absorption success this quarter was our focus on communities where the rate of sales was below the company average.
We have a process in place where our divisions review detailed plans with senior management on strategies and tactics to improve the performance of these communities.
Our product strategy continues to focus on the execution of our Everything's Included platform.
Having the right product with a simplified home purchase process gives us a competitive edge especially against resales and rentals.
Our Everything's Included research has led us introduce a new product line this year Lennar's Next Gen The Home Within a Home.
We introduced this product in the West and are now rolling it out across the country.
We expect to be offering Next Gen plans in about 25% of our community by year-end.
This home appealed to many buyer segments but predominantly the baby boomer who needs to take care of aging parents or boomerang kids.
This product is without competition from resales and is producing strong gross margins and incremental sales for Lennar.
This quarter we continued to see urgency in customers making the buying decision and raising prices helped create this urgency.
Sales were very consistent throughout the quarter as only about 100 sales separated our biggest month from the smallest.
We are seeing continued strength into June.
On the mortgage front we continue to face the challenging underwriting environment.
Offsetting this is our consistent and close working relationship with UAMC.
We see this benefit in our prequalification process which led to our low 16% cancellation rate.
Turning to the cost side of the equation.
While there are some cost pressures materializing we continue to believe that these increases will be offset by sales price improvements and our continued focus on managing direct costs.
For 6 quarters running our average direct costs remain in the range of $40 to $42 per square foot.
As I have discussed on prior calls we have an intense focus on lowering our cost while improving our quality.
Our focus on Everything's Included not only delivers great value for the homebuyer but allows us to simplify everything from how we order materials to the flow on job sites.
EI makes it easier to unbundle giving us more transparency into our cost.
It allows us to reduce SKUs so our supplier have less to stock.
And in those structural options value engineering is enhanced because we do not have the need for multiple engineering solutions on each home.
All of this helps skilled labor too as there are fewer change orders and greater consistency in field installation.
We also continued our intense focus on managing extras in cost variances working to eliminate these costs from the system.
With our increased volume we continued to leverage our operating structure.
With deliveries up 20% year-over-year our SG&amp;A dropped to 13.2% a 170-basis-point improvement.
Once again our approach is simplifying the homebuilding process centered around Everything's Included enhances the overall leverage we're able to achieve.
We continued to be extremely disciplined in controlling our indirect costs.
We have in place a strong management team organized in a simple regional and divisional structure that allows for delivery growth with minimal additions to this structure.
Across our divisions we are actively and intensely managing each of the components that make up our net operating margin.
I want to add my thanks to all of our associates for their hard work and focus in achieving our second quarter results.
Thank you and I'd now like to turn it over to Jeff.
Thanks Jon and good morning everyone.
Rialto now has a focused team of over 200 professionals acquiring resolving and adding value to distressed and advantageously priced real estate assets.
We continue on the path to build a first-class investment and asset management company which over the long haul we expect will generate significant shareholder value.
This quarter's earnings of $4.3 million for the Rialto segment are still not where we'd like to see them.
This is mainly due to the timing of recoveries and higher expenses resulting from a number of borrowers and guarantors in our earlier distressed debt portfolios taking obstinate positions about repaying their loans and bucking historical norms.
More recently we have seen this turn into an increased effort by a number of investor and developer obligors to alter existing laws to frustrate the original contractual terms of the underlying loan agreements specifically to limit our ability to collect what is due.
While we continue to be successful with our approach including the use of the judicial process when necessary the related higher costs must be expensed upfront while revenue recognition is being delayed until later in the process.
Nonetheless operationally and from a cash flow perspective we've made substantial progress on these portfolios collecting over $650 million to date.
And we've already repositioned almost $2 billion of loans into owned real estate.
Of the original $627 million of FDIC seller financing net of all cash on hand it's now effectively down to approximately $240 million.
All of our distressed debt investments since early 2011 have been made through our fund business where we had already recalibrated our thinking about the timing and cost of resolution.
And we continue to materially exceed our original expectations on timing and amount of cash resolution.
Our first $700 million real estate private equity vehicle as well as our PPIP fund with AllianceBernstein had another strong quarter contributing $12.2 million from our share of underlying earnings plus fees and reimbursements.
In addition we have already started monetizing our investment in PPIP selling almost $2 billion of face amount of securities since the last time we reported to you and repatriating over $22 million to the company of our $70 million investment.
Our real estate fund has been able to acquire and tie up almost 40 different transactions and their pipeline of new investments continues to be strong.
We've already invested the lion's share of our funds' original equity commitments to acquire about $1.8 billion of assets based on unpaid principal balance for less than $0.40 on the dollar.
And through the end of the quarter the fund has already collected over $225 million from interest principal and asset resolutions at levels significantly higher and sooner than originally anticipated as well as from a groundbreaking nonperforming loan securitization which has received a great deal of industry attention.
Our fund and future investment vehicles should not only help to enhance the company's returns and add consistent cash flow and earnings but also will be important building blocks for us to create a strong investment management business.
Along those lines we're already earning fees from a number of sources including the oversight of the fund in PPIP and from our loan workout and asset management activities.
We also earn carried interest when we exceed targeted returns.
In addition last week we received over first rating as a CMBS special servicer.
We have already established Rialto as a leader in today's mortgage-backed securities marketplace.
And for those of you remember what we did with LNR we expect these activities to open up new opportunities for us to add further to our existing book of business.
Perhaps the most significant and unexpected contribution that Rialto has added to the Lennar enterprise though is the invaluable access to borrowers and lenders that has contributed to the pipeline of deal flow that is driving our primary homebuilding business.
As Rick and Stuart have indicated direct access to distressed sellers has helped us source many advantageously priced land positions for the homebuilder.
Together we have worked to add over 10 000 new homesites across dozens of new Lennar communities in multiple markets and with a lot more in the pipeline.
These are a few of the reasons why we remain excited about the continued progress of our Rialto franchise.
Our ability to add new sources of solid business on our already existing management base our current position in the marketplace and the synergies with the rest of the Lennar operations we expect in due course will be reflected in growing value for our shareholders.
Thank you.
And David? Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
As Stuart mentioned we reversed $403 million of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance in the second quarter of 2012.
We came to this conclusion because the company determined that it was more likely than not that the majority of its valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets would be utilized.
The reversal of $403 million of our valuation allowance is presented as a benefit from income taxes in our income statement.
The conclusion to reverse this amount was based on a detailed evaluation of all relevant evidence both positive and negative including such factors as our nonconsecutive quarters of earnings the expectation of continued profitability as well as the housing recovery we are experiencing in our markets.
I will take a few minutes to explain the process we undertook to reach our conclusion.
Historically each quarter we have evaluated the relevant evidence regarding the DTA.
Our analysis each quarter included a review of the overall housing market conditions local market conditions and the company's actual results and financial projections.
As of May 31 we concluded that there was sufficient objectively verifiable positive evidence that outweighed the negative evidence and deemed that it was more likely than not that we would utilize our DTA in future periods.
And as such we reversed $403 million of the allowance.
Among the factors we considered in our analysis were the following.
We have had 9 consecutive quarters of profits with an expectation of continued profits.
We were profitable across all of our businesses.
Our operating leverage has improved significantly.
Our year-to-date deliveries increased 24% year-over-year.
Our year-to-date new orders increased 37% year-over-year.
Our backlog increased 61% year-over-year.
Housing starts have increased and new home inventory is at an all-time low.
We project to use our NOLs in the carryforward period and we've had no history of NOLs expiring unused.
The process that we undertook to reach our reversal conclusion was extensive and was reviewed by our independent external auditors Deloitte &amp; Touche.
The reversal of $403 million of the DTA valuation allowance leaves a $177 million valuation allowance remaining at May 31.
There are 2 components that make up the remaining valuation allowance of $177 million which if the housing recovery continues we expect most of the remaining allowance to reverse between Q3 2012 and Q4 2013.
The first component.
The accounting rules require a valuation allowance as being reversed in an interim period such as our second quarter to be partly applied to the remaining periods in the year.
Therefore we expect to reverse portions of the $177 million valuation allowance in Q3 and Q4 of 2012.
These amounts should offset the tax expense we would have recorded in Q3 and Q4.
Thus we expect our net tax expense for the remainder of the year to be close to 0.
The second component.
We will also continue to provide a valuation allowance on a portion of our DTA relating to state NOLs.
The reason for this is that the state tax laws for the most part do not allow for us to carry back NOLs.
It's different for Federal tax purposes where we're able to carryback most of our Federal NOLs.
We will evaluate the remaining amount relating to such state items each quarter.
And if the housing recovery continues it is likely that most of the remaining allowance relating to our state NOLs will reverse between now and the end of fiscal 2013.
With the reversal of most of our DTA valuation allowance our stockholders' equity is now over $3 billion.
Our net homebuilding debt to total capital improved to 46.9% and our book value per share is up to $16.79.
From an accounting standpoint this is a significant milestone for our company.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Bruce.
Thanks David and good morning.
I'll provide a little more color to the results starting with Homebuilding.
Revenues from home sales increased 23% to $796 million driven by a 20% increase in wholly owned deliveries and a 2% increase in average sales price to $250 000.
The breakdown by region is as follows.
The East region had an average sale price of $231 000 up 4%; Southeast Florida $266 000 up 1%; Central Florida $229 000 up 9%; Houston $229 000 down 1%; the West region $304 000 down 1%; and the other category $321 000 down 17% due to product mix.
Jon already highlighted the drivers of our strong gross margin performance and significant operating leverage during the quarter.
The gross margins were strong in all of our regions this quarter but they were strongest in the East and Southeast Florida regions.
During the quarter we had asset sales that were recognized in both the equity and earnings from unconsolidated subsidiary and other income lines.
Although the joint venture asset sales resulted in a loss the asset sales on the other income line had a profit.
And combined these 2 line items totaled $3.4 million of income in Q2 and that compares to $11.9 million in the prior year.
Our Financial Services business segment generated operating earnings of $18 million versus $2.5 million last year.
These are the strongest quarterly operating earnings for Financial Services since 2006.
Mortgage pretax income increased to $17.2 million from $5.3 million in the prior year.
This quarter's mortgage originations increased by 50% to $976 million.
Our in-house mortgage capture rate of Lennar homebuyers was 77% this quarter.
Originations with non-Lennar homebuyers increased 89% this quarter primarily due to an increase in the number of refinanced transactions as interest rates were under 4% for the quarter.
Our title company had a $1.4 million profit in the quarter.
And that compares with a loss of $2.2 million in the prior year as the volume of transactions increased by 39% this quarter.
Our Rialto business segment generated operating earnings of $4.3 million.
This number is net of $3.2 million of net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest and that compares to $9.8 million in the prior year.
The composition of Rialto's $4.3 million of operating earnings by type of investment is as follows.
The FDIC portfolios had a $3.2 million gain; non-FDIC portfolios had a $1.3 million gain; PPIP contributed $2.7 million; and the Rialto Real Estate Fund contributed $3 million of earnings.
And that was all less by $5.9 million of G&amp;A and other which is net of management fees and reimbursements of $6.6 million.
Our balance sheet liquidity improved in the second quarter with the completion of a $525 million 3-year unsecured revolving credit facility of which $410 million was initially committed.
As a result our liquidity increased to $1.1 billion when adding our cash balance to the fully undrawn revolver.
As David mentioned our stockholders' equity increased significantly this quarter which reduced our homebuilding net debt to total capital by 270 basis points.
And our book value per share increased 17% again to $16.79.
While it has not been customary for us to provide earnings guidance I wanted to highlight a couple of items for the remainder of 2012.
Our backlog conversion ratio which has been running above 110% for the past few years now with the large percentage of presales that Jon discussed and given the cycle time on these deliveries a number of these homes will not close in the third quarter but rather in the fourth quarter.
As a result the backlog conversion ratio we expect for Q3 deliveries is between 85% and 90%.
Additionally we expect our gross margin percentage to range between 21% and 22.5% for the remainder of the year.
With that let's open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk to you a little bit about your ability to raise prices as tempered by the appraisal process.
We've been hearing ongoing concerns about appraisals and yet it does seem that just as buyers are able to get their financials in order in a better way than they were a year ago builders are also finding ways to deal with a difficult appraisal process.
I was wondering if you could share with us what you're seeing in the marketplace.
Are you seeing any positive trends there? And what do you think it will take for the appraisals to take a significant step back in being a headwind for you? Steve we've discussed this topic certainly at our presidents' meeting.
And look here's the good news.
The good news is that the appraisal process appraisals in general have really gotten in line with the market.
And the pendulum has kind of swung closer to normal than it was 6 months ago.
Six months ago appraisals just at market prices were really driving prices lower.
And I don't -- we don't get the sense that that's as much the case out in the field today.
Now with prices starting to move up there's clearly some stickiness and there's going to be a process of kind of finding equilibrium and the appraisers getting a sense.
They'll probably lag the market and be a little bit more conservative in their approach and we're hearing instances of this.
But over time we think it's going to find its way to a realistic setting.
And I think on average I'd say I feel pretty optimistic about the appraisal side of things finding equilibrium maybe a little bit ahead of the mortgage side.
Yes.
One thing I'd add to that Steve is that procedurally in the field we raise it in small increments so it's easier to get the appraisal to get there.
So it's tough to goose things by $5 000 or $10 000 in a month period.
So you break it up into $1 000 to $2 500 increments.
And we haven't seen a lot of resistance to that in the field.
Research Division</strong> Yes nor have I.
And that's a great change of pace from where we were a year ago.
Second question is again sort of a general question with respect to the issue of expectations.
You all were fairly early in identifying a turn in the housing market at least in your communities.
And we've seen increasingly people getting on board with that and echoing that.
I was curious though if there were any pockets of the industry where you felt that expectations are perhaps getting a little ahead of where the market really is right now and where you think it is reasonable to expect it to be in the next 2 -- let's say 1 to 2 quarters.
So areas where people you sense may be being overly optimistic at this point maybe after having been a little bit slow to make that initial move whether it be in the land side in other areas of dealmaking the mortgage side or anything that you're seeing in the marketplace.
Well look you highlight that we might have been a little bit earlier in reporting.
I think that we're just as a management group very very tightly connected with the field on a regular basis.
And we're really just reporting very candidly the things that we're seeing hearing and feeling as trends from the field.
I think that it feels to us that right now as I've said it feels very much like we've hit a bottom and we're starting to come off of that bottom.
I'm a little nervous about saying the word recovery.
We'll see how things evolve over the next couple of quarters.
And it will be easy for people to get a little bit ahead of the market.
I don't think that there's reason for exuberance right now except for the fact that the beatings have stopped.
But I think that we do have headwinds in the market whether it's mortgage approvals whether it's kind of remnant limitations from appraisals and prices moving up.
I think that it would be easy for people to kind of get ahead of themselves in terms of the high point of home prices and where they can go quickly.
I think that we're in for a steady recovery as one takes hold that is going to be slower than the V shape that people are used to.
But at the same time given the limitations on land access to land and land availability we are going to see as the recovery does start to take hold a move up in prices.
So it's hard to say where people are getting ahead of themselves.
I think it's a little bit too fresh.
But I think that as in all recoveries we are prone as a group to get a little ahead of ourselves.
We're trying to keep things in check and stay very closely tied to the field.
Our next question is from Joshua Pollard of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My first question was actually for Jon.
Can you walk through the progression of incentives per home by month over the course of the quarter and talk about where those incentive levels are in your backlog ultimately trying to understand even if you guys can't push prices because of appraisal issues how much further you guys have to cut on the incentive structure.
Josh first we don't break out our incentives and backlog to that level of detail.
What we are seeing in the field is I mean this recovery is very localized.
The downturn was very national but as conditions improve in the field it improves at different levels in different markets.
So in some markets we've been able to both reduce incentives fairly aggressively and even raise prices.
In other markets it's relatively flat and stabilized.
But we are seeing that trend come down.
Where a year ago we were about 12.5%.
A year ago we were at 12.5% in average sales price and incentives and now we're down to 10.7%.
We're seeing that steady decline and I'd say that -- and it varies by area but in the West we'll probably see about 85% of our communities are able to achieve price or incentive improvement.
And the Central is a little bit better than that and on the East Coast it's a little bit behind that.
The next question comes from David Goldberg of UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question Stuart you talked about in the opening comments your feeling that there was someone in the government that kind of understood the issues around mortgage underwriting.
And I'm wondering if you could just give us an idea of the political landscape in your mind now between the forces that are kind of pushing for tighter underwriting especially for FHA/VA loans and the forces that say we need to kind of find a way to stimulate housing more through -- at a minimum kind of -- at a minimum don't tighten any more but maybe even loosen a little bit and kind of how your thoughts on how that's playing out especially as it relates to the QM standard and underwriting as we go forward.
Okay.
David I'm not going to name names but I will say that certainly within the government there has been over the past year a recognition and awareness that housing really is a central issue and key to a recovery within the economy.
And I think you see that really on both sides of the aisle.
It doesn't mean that there aren't some people that feel that more and more tightening is required and you hear some of those sentiments come out.
But the more people have come to understand that housing is a very important key to driving employment and driving psychology improvements or sentiment improvements among the consumer who by and large own homes the feeling among many legislators is that the pendulum has swung too far and that the mortgage process has become overly cumbersome and been driven past the point of being safe and secure.
And there is beginning to be some pushback.
I think that if you were to speak to the people within Fannie Freddie FHA/VA there's kind of a balancing point let's say that kind of goes like "Hey let's keep things conservative enough.
Let's not get back to 0-down mortgages.
Let's have a healthy downpayment.
But let's also recognize that we've probably made the paperwork overly cumbersome." The credit scores were probably that requiring too high of a credit score for what's reasonable.
And in order to get banks lending again I think that there's a sentiment that we have to ease up a little bit.
The last thing I want to say is as I remember last week it was that I saw an article that noted that the FHFA is starting to reconsider the putback requirements relative to some of the banks as it relates to Fannie and Freddie loans.
And that is a really good indicator that political currents are kind of moving in the direction of saying "Hey if we can resolve or create safe harbors relative to putback risk then we're going to define the landscape for banks and enable them to make a more comfortable lending decision as they go forward." And I think that's as good of an indicator as I can point to that the political world is really starting to get an understanding that we've probably swung too far to the conservative side.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a follow-up.
I think you guys did a great job on outlining what differentiates Lennar on the land front the land acquisition front.
And I was wondering if we could follow up and just think about the peer group that's also trying to pursue the same land opportunities.
And if we kind of put Rialto to the side because clearly that's a competitive advantage and very very hard to replicate I'm wondering about the other factors that you guys listed.
How replicable are they and how much do you think you're going to see competitors trying to become as an example more nimble in the way that they're underwriting land to try to compete better with the likes of Lennar in the land market now? In other words how high are the barriers to entry right now? How long will it take your competitors to try to do some of these things more efficiently? Well let's just be clear that it is a very competitive land environment.
And as you highlight Rialto as a distinguishing factor keep in mind that Rialto has taught a lot of our homebuilding divisions out here how to do these things in local markets.
So it's really Rialto almost on steroids right now in the markets across the country.
The things you need to think about is the DNA in Lennar has always been land oriented.
And we look at things in a different way than many of the other builders.
We're not averse to developing our own land or working with landowners to work on entitlements.
And as a result we don't have a need to just go in there and buy finished homesites because that's what our metrics are with regard to how we operate.
So from a process standpoint we are very nimble.
We're fast.
We don't have an enormous book-building process to get things reviewed at a local then a regional then a corporate level that takes 3 or 4 weeks or sometimes months.
We can make those decisions relatively quickly.
And with all of that in mind I think that speed is a huge differentiator as well as the ability to do things that are extraordinarily complex.
Let me add to that.
There are 2 components of land acquisition.
Number one is finding the things to negotiate on and number two is the way that you go about negotiating.
I think it's very hard to just hire someone and to replicate.
I think that what you've seen in our management team whether it's Jon and Rick on the Homebuilding side whether it's Jeff and Jay Mantz on the Rialto side or Eric Feder as the bridge so much of what we're able to identify is being driven by relationships relationships that have been put in place over these past couple of years through the toughest of times.
And there's a certain thickness to those relationships that is sticky and is really positioning us well.
But a lot of what Rick highlighted as well is beyond just access to the deals.
It's the way that our group has reacted to those deals that augments the relationship and basically feeds back to it.
It's the speed at which we operate.
It's the completeness with which we deal with people.
It's the integrity that we bring to the table and the decision to do the homework in advance and not end up retrading and walking away from a whole bunch of deals that is really holding us in good stead as people look for certainty of close.
So my personal view is that it's not easily replicatable [ph] and we're in an awfully good position right now.
Our next question is from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question on Rialto.
I know it's been -- obviously it's a segment that will not necessarily go in a straight line but you did mention you're not necessarily where you want to be in terms of the earnings out of there.
And I was just wondering if you can kind of walk through maybe where you're -- kind of reiterate -- maybe get a little bit more granular in terms of the different buckets that you break out where you're maybe having the most challenges what you might be doing if there's anything to do differently over the next couple of quarters to maybe get that back on track ultimately to where you think it should be at this point.
Yes.
I think the way that I look at it Mike is first of all as we kind of segregate out or think through the component parts of Rialto PPIP is performing very well.
Our private equity or private investment fund is performing extremely well.
The area where we probably had the most kind of letdown is in some of our earlier portfolios where I think Jeff highlighted well the fact that because -- really what you're seeing is moral hazard at work.
What we're seeing -- and we have a long history of dealing with borrowers and distressed debt.
What we've been seeing is that the borrowers have taken a more adamant obstinate position in dealing with the workout team and have almost just blocked the doors without any legal basis in coming or not coming to the resolution table.
In many instances they've been hiding behind pending legislation from either friends or legislative friends who they've engaged to try to get legislation to bail them out of what might be a bad contractual relationship or a bad personal guarantee.
And so the resolution process has been somewhat frustrated and stymied by a longer resolution period and some additional legal cost in getting to where we had expected to be in our initial diligence.
So timing is proving to be somewhat elusive.
At the end of the day what we're finding is that the legislative attempts and the attempts of borrowers to subvert their notes and personal obligations is ultimately falling by the wayside.
And over time we think that we're going to end up in the place that we thought we would end up but those initial deals are not performing timing-wise the way that we had hoped that they would.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just to take Rialto from the other side because I believe you did mention that it is contributing to the core homebuilding operations in a competitive -- almost as a competitive -- as a competitive advantage very much beneficial to the gross margin levels.
So on the flipside I was hoping perhaps over the -- this past quarter the last couple of quarters if you could give any insight in terms of I think you've done this before what proportion of the land deals that you've entered into recently are through those more through the Rialto relationships where you have a less competitive or noncompetitive bidding process.
And when you look at the gross margin expansion that you've had it would appear that most of it is just from less -- lower incentive levels but any insight around the contribution to the gross margins would also be helpful in understanding the other elements of Rialto.
Well look I think that as I've noted we've had some mild disappointments on timing relative to some of our earlier deals.
But Rialto has been a grand slam home run for this company in terms of what it has done in terms of positioning us to be able to grow and enhance our primary Homebuilding business not just from the standpoint of access to deals because frankly that's gone both ways.
The relationships on the Lennar side have sometimes found new business for Rialto and sometimes very much in the opposite direction.
But the knowledge base that our Rialto team has enhanced our homebuilding operations with in terms of the breadth of kinds of deals that we can undertake to purchase in order to get to land whether it's CDD bonds as Rick points out or purchasing notes on assets or just having relationships with borrowers or people in the real estate business we have leveraged the Rialto franchise as a very very strong driver of Lennar business.
Now this disentangling and getting to percentages of deals that derive from the Rialto side the Lennar side and what percentage has the Rialto relationship actually played we just can't break it out that way because it's kind of too organic.
It's intertwined.
And I've highlighted the work of Eric Eric Feder as the bridge between the 2 operating divisions.
I mean we have a very smooth and compatible relationship between both sides that's kind of amplifying the performance on both sides.
As it relates to the performance of Rialto going forward we have absolutely put together a blue-chip team of loan workout professionals that will be a platform for our business going forward but we will recalibrate and get those operations working more in line with the way we expected in the beginning.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I squeeze one more in? It looked like community count given your sales pace community count was down roughly 5% year-over-year can you give us a guidance of where you might end up for the year end or what you think about 2013? Community count? I think as we said in prior calls from the beginning of the year we thought we'd be up about 5% to 10% from the community count we started in the year.
On a net basis.
Our next question is from Alan Ratner of Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to ask about your gross margin guidance.
I believe the high end of your range 22.5% is equal to what you guys reported this quarter.
And obviously this quarter's results were much stronger than your prior guidance range.
And it seems -- based on your commentary I know you're having some success raising prices or reducing incentives.
And from Jon's comments you've been pretty successful in mitigating the cost inflation you're seeing on the materials side.
So just curious why you wouldn't make maybe a range a little bit higher than where you're currently at today and whether there's any other issues I'm missing here either mix or something along those lines that would offset some of those price increases.
This is Jon.
As I said in my comments we do feel that we've got cost control measures in place that will help offset what's happening in the field with pressure on labor and materials.
We are very focused on incentives and sales prices.
But as you look forward those factors are going to -- those pressures in the field starts -- increase will continue to ramp up.
And very hard to predict what the mix is how that will affect what that gross margin is.
And as we look to the different mix of deliveries from the markets changing in the 4 quarters we feel pretty comfortable with the range that we gave.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Appreciate that.
And then on the corporate line it looks think there's a little bit of a sequential increase there to about $29 million and that's a bit higher than you had been running at.
Just curious if that's a function of the new markets you're entering or whether there were some one-timers in there and where can we think about a run rate going forward? Sure.
Alan this is Bruce.
As you look at last year the number was below normal.
I think we're averaging close to $24 million a quarter last year.
This year is $29 million.
It's primarily due to stock-based compensation expense as the stock has gone up.
And some of the variable compensation expense also added to the G&amp;A this quarter.
Research Division</strong> So that's something you expect to be recurring going forward or dependent somewhat on the performance? We haven't given exact guidance but I would expect as our profits go up variable compensation expense will as well.
And as the stock prices increase the stock compensation expense will also.
So I would expect that it's likely to be higher than what you've seen in the past year for those reasons.
Our next question is from Stephen East of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Stuart if we could go back to demand just for a minute.
As we walk [ph] communities [indiscernible] will we see where it looks like a lot of the new home sales are being helped quite a bit by lack of competing inventory.
And I'm just wondering from your standpoint whether you think that's true or not.
And then also if that is true are you starting to see it slide into call it the B- C+ locations or any particular segment demand out there? Let me give that over to Rick and Jon.
They're a little bit closer to it.
As far as the B B- I think with the improving market all communities are starting to perform a little bit better.
But clearly the better-located A locations are capturing the lion's share of the activity.
We're seeing increased demand out there.
A lot of it has to do with the lack of availability of competing product and that's given us the ability to raise prices and decrease incentives.
And as Jon said earlier our sales pace per community pretty much across the company has improved regionally and by each market.
Steve this is Jon.
I think as you're aware Phoenix is a good example of the answer to your question where MLS listings dropped pretty dramatically.
That in turn helped the pace of sales and pricing for the new home product.
But as you get to the B- and C locations around Phoenix those are not doing as well.
So if you're down on Buckeye or Goodyear they're not doing as well as Chandler and Scottsdale and the closer-in markets.
I think we can pretty much see that kind of scenario playing out across the country and in the various markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then if we look at -- you gave breakout of land spend et cetera and talked about community growth.
Are you demothballing the communities to any degree? And you've got a new revolver in place so at what level are you comfortable with your cash balance? So in other words how do you look at land spend et cetera moving forward? It's interesting that in our division presidents' meeting we went through each of our divisions.
Each division president gives the presentation and we're very carefully monitoring the progress of mothballed communities.
And the answer is yes there are some that are starting to come online.
And we actually have some pretty good examples of some that are really starting to contribute to our gross margin and bottom line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then one last quick question are you seeing any shortages of labor in any of your markets or anything along those lines that are pushing out your delivery date? Just a little bit and it involves the trades either [ph].
But certainly as is typical in market recoveries sales go first then starts and then labor has to catch up to that.
Our next question comes from Robert Wetenhall of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Desi filling in for Bob.
So regarding gross margins you guys discussed sales incentives as a percentage of revenues were lower for the quarter.
The lowering of incentives -- is that something you're seeing competitors do as well in the markets that you operate? Yes the competition they're doing all sorts of things.
I think everybody in the industry is trying to raise prices and trying to reduce incentives.
And the success of our peers out there I think you'll have to ask them with regard to what they're doing and how effective they are.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for Financial Services obviously there was a big jump there in operating income.
And then in terms of the operating leverage in that segment with the increase in spend new orders and deliveries is that something you would expect going forward how the operating income could increase that greatly.
Well the operating leverage is there in Financial Services just like we're seeing with Homebuilding.
I think the one thing to note is that there was a significant increase in volume a lot of that attributable to refinance activity.
So the refinance activity will be certainly lumpy depending on what happens with interest rates.
Our next question comes from Jade Rahmani of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> In looking at your operating margins I wanted to find out how your incremental margin performance compared with the 16% guidance you gave last quarter.
We estimated roughly 30% because you had gross margin expansion as well as the SG&amp;A leverage.
Is that accurate? And what do you think is achievable going forward in terms of incremental margins? So again just to go back to last quarter what we said is in an existing community when we go from 2 sales a month to 3 sales a month per community the incremental operating margin is about 16%.
And that was assuming the 21% gross margin and then the incremental SG&amp;A expense of about 4.5% or so.
So that type of incremental leverage was a little bit higher this quarter as the gross margin was a little higher than the 21%.
So we still believe the incremental operating leverage in existing communities to be at about that level or possibly a little bit higher.
In new communities it's a little bit less because the SG&amp;A expense is a little higher.
You have to hire sales and construction people bring on new models.
And there we typically say that the SG&amp;A incrementally is 7% or 8% so your incremental operating margin will be a little bit less.
So we do expect that incremental operating leverage to continue.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So margins as your volume increases margins should still expand.
Secondly just on the backlog conversion guidance the lower spec -- is the lower spec mix a function of the market or a change in your strategy? And then secondly are you intentionally constraining delivery pace in order to both manage your margins as well as control construction and labor costs? No.
First of all I don't think that we're managing our deliveries.
And I think that we've highlighted that we're very focused on generating strong margins and so we've had a very measured approach to both sales and starts.
I highlighted in my remarks that looking watching our gross margins you're seeing that we have a very carefully programmed approach to pricing our product making sure that we're maintaining margins.
So this has been something that's been consistent over the past years.
In terms of what is affecting our backlog delivery ratio is the fact then we are -- we've seen a fairly aggressive strong move in sales.
We are probably selling a higher percentage right now of unstarted homes of homes that will take -- that will have more cycle time remaining in them.
So as we face the third quarter deliveries we recognize that we're simply not going to be able to deliver as high a percentage of the backlog and this is just what we're seeing as we sit here today.
Our next question comes from Jack Micenko of Susquehanna International Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> This is John Benda on for Jack.
I just had a couple of quick questions for you.
First is that with our regional bank coverage we're seeing increased mortgage repurchase reserving I just wonder if you guys saw any of those trends in your Financial Services unit in the quarter? No we did not see any significant trend there no.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So there are no new [indiscernible].
And then as a follow-up with the DTA reversal I know you listed about 8 factors.
Was Lennar's cumulative loss position a big consideration in the valuation allowance reversal? Or was that not looked at or just not given much weight? The cumulative loss is something that is evaluated but we're still in a cumulative loss position.
So there has to be a significant positive [indiscernible] that comes into place and it has to be significant while you're still in that cumulative loss position.
So that was taken into account but there was enough positive evidence that allowed us to reverse the DTA.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Great.
And was there a PPIP mark in the quarter? It was negligible.
It was a couple [indiscernible] thousand dollars.
All right.
Very good.
We'll wrap it up here.
I know that we took a little bit long with our opening remarks but we wanted to cover a lot of ground.
We certainly appreciate everybody joining us for our second quarter update and look forward to reporting our quarter -- on the third quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to Lennar's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Today's conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
David Collins for the reading of the forward-looking statements.
Thank you.
Today's conference call may include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to Lennar's future business and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements may include statements regarding Lennar's business financial condition results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar's estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could cause Lennar's actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar's annual report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Great.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thank you David.
Thanks everyone for joining us for our third quarter 2012 update.
We're pleased to detail our results for you this morning.
As always I'm joined this morning by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; Diane Bessette our Vice President and Treasurer; and Dave Collins our Controller.
Additionally Rick Beckwitt our President; and Jeff Krasnoff Chief Executive Officer of our Rialto segment are here to participate as well.
Jon Jaffe our Chief Operating Officer will join us by conference line from California and also will participate.
I'm going to begin this morning with some brief opening remarks about the housing market in general and about our first quarter results.
Rick and Jon will comment on specific aspects of Lennar's Homebuilding operations and Jeff will update performance in our Rialto segment and Bruce will conclude and add specifics with the financial review.
Simply put the housing market is recovering.
Not only are sales margins and backlogs improving but the beginnings of a sense of visibility are coming back to underwriting land acquisitions and planning for the future.
The Homebuilding business is beginning to revert to normal and that's positive for the U.S.
economy in general which is in turn good for a sustained recovery in the housing market.
Last quarter I noted various trends that were driving stabilization and recovery in housing.
Those trends have continued to define the path to recovery.
Briefly those drivers are: one home price value and interest rates driving affordability; two for-sale monthly payments compare favorably to rentals; three inventories of distressed homes and foreclosures are declining; four consumer confidence is improving and consumers don't want to miss current prices and interest rates; and five the mortgage approval process is stabilizing and getting marginally better.
In fact on this last trend we see with QE3 that the government is focused on the home mortgage market and is working to keep rates low and to maintain an orderly flow of capital to the mortgage market.
To me at least this is an important harbinger of future focus on nurturing a housing recovery.
Overall demand has been improving and we've seen consistent sales pace at improving prices; that is prices that are reverting from overcorrected lows to normal throughout our third quarter.
Our steady traffic and sales pace indicates stronger demand trends as we have seen a material increase in our monthly sales per community from about 1.5 to 2 per month to this quarter at 3.2 sales per community per month.
These improved results come with gross margins that are consistent with our current deliveries indicating that we are not and have not been reaching for volume.
While I'm increasingly enthusiastic about the housing recovery I don't want to overstate the case.
While the trend is decidedly positive stabilization and recovery are still uneven across the country and even within markets.
As I've said before the housing depression was a national phenomenon while the recovery is very local.
We're continuing to see pockets of activity develop across the country that are recovering and these pockets are growing while still the broader market outside of these pockets often remains weak.
Additionally demand trends continue to be constrained by mortgage qualification standards and processes that define today's mortgage market and remains overcorrected by the severity of the downturn.
But demand is growing and more and more consumers continue to look for some loosening of credit standards.
With the market improving and driven by sound fundamentals it's beginning to be interesting to be a homebuilder again.
Let me turn briefly to Lennar specifically as our management team will give additional color on our results.
In our third quarter we saw continued improvement in all of the building blocks that define our Homebuilding and Financial Services operations while Rialto enhanced and expanded its blue chip operating platform.
Each of our operating segments remained profitable in the third quarter as our associates across the country are really executing on all fronts.
On the Homebuilding front each element of our business has continued to improve.
On a quarter-over-quarter basis closings were up 28% versus 20% last quarter.
New orders increased 44% versus 40% last quarter.
Our backlog improved 79% versus 61% last quarter and gross margins of 23.2% versus 22.5% last quarter translated into our healthy operating margin of 11.2% versus 9.2% last quarter as SG&amp;A declined to 12% versus 13.2% last quarter.
We are clearly seeing the impact of operating leverage that we expected as the market has stabilized and as sales per community have increased.
As we look ahead to future quarters improved sales per community together with increased community count will be the engine that drives the SG&amp;A operating leverage that will produce strong and sustainable bottom line earnings even as construction costs do trend upward.
Our overall strategy of focusing on high margins in well-positioned communities has clearly paid off.
Lennar's Homebuilding operations are operating soundly and are defined by excellent hands-on management running the day-to-day activities while excellent new communities are identified and added to each division.
Lennar Financial Services had another excellent quarter as well with operating earnings of $25.3 million.
Lennar Financial Services has continued to expand alongside of the core Homebuilding business providing excellent service to our customers and leveraging increased volume.
Additionally we've opportunistically added incremental volume by participating in the refinance market.
Rialto continued to play a central part in the improving Lennar story.
Rialto contributed $7.7 million of operating earnings while the Rialto connections and relationships have continued to help grow and expand our core Homebuilding business.
The synergy between our Rialto segment and our Homebuilding segment continues to exceed every expectation that we had when we began to grow this business.
Rialto results include the wind-down of our PPIP program that Jeff will discuss in just a few minutes.
But perhaps most noteworthy is the fact that capital invested in the start-up of Rialto is beginning to cycle back to Lennar and will enable us to aggressively grow our homebuilding platform while Rialto continues to invest third-party capital.
The Rialto franchise will continue to be a significant source of valuable homebuilding deals for some time to come while the base Rialto business continues to ramp its earnings.
As we look ahead Rialto should continue to be a solid earnings contributor for Lennar and will continue to return cash to corporate.
All in all our third quarter 2012 results mark an excellent stepping stone to strong future performance.
We are feeling more and more comfortable that the current trend is in fact the beginning of a new cycle for housing.
As I look ahead to the remainder of this year and towards 2013 I'm increasingly optimistic that we are seeing a real recovery in housing and that we will continue to see improvement.
With national new home deliveries in 2012 expected in the 450 000 to 500 000 range there's a lot of opportunity for expansion as the market normalizes over the next years to a normalized million home plus.
Additionally with smaller builders temporarily hamstrung by constrained capital markets larger well-capitalized builders like Lennar have a head start and can expect market share gains.
Assuming this market recovery is not derailed expanding deliveries and fewer participants should provide us with some excellent opportunities.
Lennar's positioned with a strong balance sheet in the right markets with an exceptional management team and a well-constructed strategy to perform solidly as market conditions continue to improve.
All of the segments of our company are performing well and are extremely well positioned as you will now hear from our operating team.
Let me turn over to Jon now.
Good morning.
As Stuart noted we saw continued improvement in our third quarter results with a post impairment 23.2% gross margin and an 11.2% net operating margin.
This bottom line profitability was driven by our focus on pricing strategies product offerings direct cost management and by leveraging our operating structure.
We continued to see a normalized sales pace in the third quarter with a rate of 3.2 sales per community per month as compared to last year with a 2.2 sales per month rate.
This level of activity produced 4 198 new orders and has positioned us with a backlog of 4 513 homes respectively 44% and 79% year-over-year improvement.
In the context of these improving market conditions many investors' questions have turned to the cost side of the equation.
Let me give you some color as to what we see going on in the field.
In the third quarter we saw cost increases in all of our markets.
The level of these increases range from $2 000 to $3 000 per home and an average total of about $2 400 per home or just over $1 per square foot.
This equates to about 10 basis points of our average sales price.
Many of these increases are not yet reflected in our closings as the timing of the effective date on each contract will vary.
Cost increases range by product type and from region to region depending upon the local supply-demand balances.
The material categories that have increased the most over the last year are lumber drywall and concrete.
Together these categories are up year-over-year about $0.75 per square foot.
In some markets labor constraints are also contributing to the increasing costs.
This is most commonly seen in framing and drywall labor.
As an offset we continue to implement cost reductions with the systems and controls we put in place during the downturn.
Through a nationally driven purchasing process we've achieved savings that reduce the impact of these cost increases.
Through our process for analyzing field construction variances we have reduced material quantities used in our homes saving about $0.18 per square foot year-over-year.
Another example of this is our value engineering review on hardware and beams that has saved us about $0.22 per square foot.
Cycle time is another topic where we received questions from investors.
While to date our average cycle time has remained level there are areas with shortages of labor supply that could drive cycle time a little higher.
Markets like Phoenix parts of Florida and Texas have labor shortages in some trades while other markets like the Inland Empire Dallas and Charlotte have labor pools that have been able to absorb the increase in activity.
Again we believe that our strong management team will mitigate most of the impact of these labor shortages.
While construction costs are trending up as the market normalizes we're finding the opportunity to improve our sales prices.
Sales pricing appears to be reverting back to normal market conditions.
Prices had overcorrected during the downturn dropping by as much as 25% to 30%.
So the 4% year-over-year improvement in our average sales price represents the continuation of an adjustment not back to peak conditions but to a more normal market condition.
The opportunity to improve prices comes from a combination of reducing incentives and raising prices.
Our average incentives for the third quarter were down to 9.2% a 280-basis point improvement.
Our average sales price was $258 000 an improvement of $11 000 over last year.
We expect as pricing returns to normal we will be able to cover cost increases and deliver the high level of gross margin we achieved in the third quarter as we move forward.
With our increased volume we continue to leverage our operating structure.
With deliveries up 28% year-over-year our SG&amp;A dropped to 12% of revenues a 230-basis point improvement.
Again the disciplines put in place during the downturn help us manage our overhead as conditions improve.
An example of this is our advertising spend where we reduced our total advertising cost by 25% year-over-year and 12% sequentially.
This drop represents 70 basis points of the 230-basis point reduction in SG&amp;A.
As market conditions improved we were quick to address our advertising and other selling costs that were no longer necessary.
As we look forward we believe our management team and the systems and controls we have in place and the reengineering of our company during the downturn will work to provide industry-leading operating margins.
Thank you and I'd now like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jon.
We're really pleased with the operating results we had this quarter.
These results were driven by both a well-executed land acquisition strategy and a fine-tuned homebuilding machine.
As in prior quarters I'm going to review our land activities and explain why Lennar is positioned to succeed in today's recovering market.
During the quarter we continued to focus on acquiring or auctioning new homesites that would have a positive impact on our bottom line.
This quarter we purchased approximately 8 300 homesites for $339 million and we spent about $81 million on land development.
Combined our land acquisition and land development spend was up about 67% over the prior year period.
In addition we signed contracts to acquire approximately 8 000 homesites.
From a geographic standpoint approximately 55% of our land spend in the third quarter was located in the West 14% in Florida 13% in Texas 7% in the mid-Atlantic with the remaining 11% spread throughout our other markets.
The lion's share of our new land deals were sourced outside of the competitive bid environment and were relationship-based deals.
As in prior quarters money was invested geographically in the markets we saw the best opportunities.
In Q3 we invested heavily in the West particularly in California.
We also continue to invest in some unique high-margin opportunities in Florida and Texas 2 of our strongest markets.
You will continue to see quarter-to-quarter changes in the geographic mix of our land purchases as we capitalize on the best opportunities out there.
While the land market has heated up we found no shortage of great opportunities.
Strategically we are still pursuing finished homesite deals which in today's market provide a higher return on investment in exchange for a somewhat lower gross margin.
The risk reward associated with these deals is still very compelling especially given the operating leverage we have today in our company.
These deals can be brought online very quickly without any significant overhead and the profits fall right to the bottom line.
However the better-located finished homesite deals are getting harder to find because the land development and entitlement business shut down in the depths of the market decline.
Nonetheless the deep-rooted relationships we formed with land sellers during the market turmoil positions us extremely well in locking up what is available.
Recognizing this inevitable shortage for the past several years we have been aggressively tying up high-margin low-cost deals where Lennar will develop the land internally.
Under the radar while many of the other builders were focused solely on purchasing finished homesites we have amassed some incredible properties across the country in A-plus locations where finished homesites are running scarce.
We started by acquiring large-scale busted development deals where much of the infrastructure was already in the ground.
In these deals the development costs are relatively modest and finished homesites can be brought on and produced relatively quickly.
We then moved to early-stage raw land opportunities that required adjustments in zoning and other entitlements in order to work in today's market.
Many of these were infill locations.
In these deals we tied up the property and invested our intellectual capital by working with land sellers towns and municipalities to create win-win programs.
In each case these deals provide us with low-cost finished homesites in class A locations where there will be very little new for-sale housing close by.
The good news is that many of these deals are coming online now and will continue to do so throughout 2013.
At August 31 2012 we owned and controlled approximately 124 000 homesites and had 444 active communities.
We should end the fiscal year with about 480 active communities many of which will be coming online late in the fourth quarter.
Our community count by the end of 2013 should grow by approximately 15% based on the deals we have in hand today.
We also expect that about 25% of these new communities will be legacy and mothballed communities where we already own the land and have waited for market values to recover.
We're excited to bring these inactive communities to the market.
As we move into 2013 while our focus to date has been on maintaining community count and increasing absorptions per community our focus today has shifted to increasing both community count and absorptions.
We are operating very efficiently today and with the added fuel from our newer land deals our operating leverage will be substantial.
We have been relentless in our pursuit of new opportunities and I'd like to thank our people for their hard work and dedication.
Simply put they are in a league of their own.
Before I turn it over to Jeff let me give you some final stats.
On a year-over-year basis our inventory at the end of the third quarter increased by about $845 million to approximately $4.7 billion and this excludes consolidated inventory not owned.
Sequentially during the third quarter our inventory increased about $276 million from the second quarter.
During the third quarter approximately 51% of our deliveries came from communities purchased to put under contract during the last 3 years.
Our gross margin on the closings from these new communities has continued to exceed the company average by about 200 basis points.
I'd like to turn it to Jeff.
Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
During the current quarter Rialto contributed $7.7 million of earnings to the company.
While Bruce will walk you through in more detail the components of our contribution the bulk of our earnings are from our growing investment management business where we invest both our capital and that of third parties in funds and other vehicles.
We participate in our share of the income from our investments in these vehicles as well as the fees and carried interest we receive related to managing those investments.
As an example this quarter we effectively wrapped up the bulk of our first vehicle our public-private investment fund in partnership with the U.S.
Department of Treasury.
During the 2.5-year life of our $4.6 billion PPIP fund we had on average $61 million of our equity outstanding as an investor in the fund that we helped to manage.
Effective today we've now recycled back in cash from interest income capital gains fees and carried interest almost $110 million while generating a 25% internal rate of return.
In addition now that this very successful program is wrapped up with almost $16 million of earnings this quarter the volatility associated with mark-to-market accounting has been eliminated.
Similarly our Rialto Real Estate Fund with $700 million of private equity commitments including $75 million from us had another strong quarter contributing $10.6 million from our share of the funds' underlying earnings plus our fees and reimbursements.
All of our distressed debt investments since the fund's first closing in late 2010 have been made through this vehicle.
We've now called all of the fund's original equity commitments to acquire in 44 separate transactions about $2 billion of assets based on unpaid principal balance and for less than $0.40 on the dollar.
So far we've done extremely well exceeding our original underwriting and taking in over $275 million from asset resolutions interest and property income principal paydowns and financings.
These cash collections have allowed us to recycle equity into new fund investments beyond the original $700 million of commitments even as we work on raising and closing our next real estate fund.
At the end of June the net asset value for the fund represented over a 27% net internal rate of return for our investors.
In addition if we continue on this path on performance we would expect to exceed the return hurdles set for our investors which means that over time carried interest would enure to Rialto who is the manager of the fund.
None of that potential value is represented in our earnings today.
Our pipeline of new investments also continues to be strong as the relationships we have built with sellers have put us in an advantageous position.
These relationships have also led to perhaps the most significant and unexpected contribution that Rialto has added to the Lennar enterprise.
As Stuart and Rick have already indicated the invaluable access to lenders and distressed borrowers has helped to drive our primary Homebuilding business.
Together we've been able to add thousands of advantageously priced homesites across dozens of new Lennar communities in multiple markets and with more in the pipeline.
Our early on balance sheet investments however continue to lag as the sluggish environment has slowed revenues.
In addition broad government oversight involvement has increased our cost to levels we had not anticipated.
We're finding that a number of borrowers and guarantors in our earlier deals emboldened by the long delays available in the judicial system and sympathetic legislatures have been taking obstinate positions about repaying their personally guaranteed loans or electing not to perform after agreeing with us on restructured loan terms.
The related higher costs involved including those from owning and managing over $2 billion by principal balance of foreclosed properties must be expensed upfront while revenue recognition is delayed until resolutions or sales occur in future periods.
This extended timing and anticipated reduction in net collections primarily in our FDIC portfolios was reflected in the top to bottom review we just completed and is what drove the impairments we recognized this quarter and which Bruce will also cover in more detail.
It's worth noting we're not seeing anything similar with our later investments as we have recalibrated our newer purchases to this environment and focused our efforts on buying directly from banks and purposely selected loans secured by vertical collateral often with in-place operating cash flow as compared with a significant land component in our earlier transactions.
Nonetheless we remain very focused on these balance sheet investments to create long-term value and bring cash back to the company to be recycled.
Overall we've already collected over $700 million of cash in these investments to date.
The biggest component of that relates to the FDIC transactions where we have approximately $211 million left in net collections in order to fully repay the original $627 million of seller financing after which we begin receiving cash distributions.
As we look forward without the volatility from our PPIP investment our future fund investment business should not only help to enhance the company's returns and add more consistent cash flow and earnings but also be an important building block for us to create a valuable investment management platform.
Our ability to add new sources of business on our already existing management base of over 200 professionals our current position in the market place and the synergies with the rest of Lennar operations we expect in due course will be reflected in growing value for our shareholders.
We're excited about the future and look forward to reporting to you on our progress.
Thank you.
Bruce? Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'll provide a little more color to the results starting with Homebuilding.
The company's average sales price that increased 4% year-over-year to $258 000.
I'd like to give a breakdown by region.
The East region was $245 000 up 11%; Southeast Florida was $278 000 up 1%; Central $225 000 up 1%; Houston $236 000 up 3%; West Region $299 000 down 1%; Other $358 000 down 5%.
Jon and Rick already highlighted the drivers of our strong gross margin performance and significant operating leverage during the quarter so I'm going to turn to the Financial Services segment.
We had a good quarter in Financial Services generating operating earnings of $25.3 million versus $8 million last year.
The third quarter is typically the strongest quarter of the year for the Financial Services segment and it was helped further this year with the strong refinance environment leading to higher volumes and strong operating leverage.
Mortgage pretax income increased to $22.3 million from $7.4 million in the prior year.
This quarter's mortgage originations increased by 72% to $1.3 billion.
Our in-house mortgage capture rate of Lennar homebuyers was 75% this quarter.
Originations with non-Lennar homebuyers increased 116% this quarter primarily due to an increase in the number of refinance transactions.
Our title company had a $3.6 million profit in Q3 and that compared with $1.3 million in the prior year.
This was driven by a 35% increase in revenues.
Our Rialto business segment that Jeff talked about generated operating earnings of $7.7 million and again this number is net of $13.4 million of net loss attributable to the noncontrolling interest.
As you remember we have to consolidate the FDIC transaction and this compares to $5.7 million in the prior year.
Let me go through the composition of Rialto's $7.7 million of operating earnings by type of investment.
Our PPIP investment contributed $16 million of earnings and this includes profits from interest income sale of securities and management promote fees.
Our first Rialto Real Estate Fund contributed $6.2 million of earnings this quarter.
The FDIC transactions had a $7.8 million loss during the quarter.
The non-FDIC portfolios had $0.5 million loss and these amounts were reduced by approximately $6.2 million of general and administrative expenses and other which is net of management fees and reimbursements of $6.7 million.
The $7.8 million FDIC loss was due to impairments during the quarter.
Each quarter we review all the cash flows in the FDIC deal and due to some changes in timing and reduction in cash flows we recorded $20 million of impairments in the FDIC portfolios with our share totaling approximately $8 million.
Rialto continues to generate strong cash flow.
At quarter end the FDIC debt net of cash available in the defeasance account and in Rialto's cash account was $211 million.
As Stuart highlighted we have been focusing on recycling capital invested in Rialto back to Lennar.
And in the third quarter we returned approximately $70 million from the PPIP and this now reduces Lennar's total investment in Rialto to approximately $530 million.
Turning to taxes.
This quarter we reversed $44 million of the remaining $177 million deferred tax asset reserve and we continue to believe most of the remainder will reverse by the end of 2013.
We expect there will be enough reversal of the DTA reserves in Q4 to offset any tax expense.
Our balance sheet liquidity improved in the third quarter with $692 million of cash and no outstanding borrowings under our $525 million 3-year unsecured revolving credit facility.
The committed portion of the facility has been increased to $500 million subsequent to quarter end.
We continued our balance sheet strategy of pushing out debt maturities while reducing our cost of capital as we raised $400 million of 4.75% senior notes due 2017 and simultaneously tendered for $205 million of 5.95% notes due 2013.
We took a charge of $6.5 million relating to the successful tender in the coming quarter.
Let me turn it open for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is coming from Michael Rehaut of JPMC.
Research Division</strong> First question on the margins they continue to surprise on the upside the gross margins as well as the SG&amp;A leverage.
You're at 11% roughly this quarter kind of bumping up against what you would kind of consider normal versus the previous cycle.
I know you've discussed perhaps gross margins maybe moving into the mid-20s over the next couple of years.
Is that still your view? And how do you think about "normalized operating margins" in the next 2 3 years? Well Mike we're really holding short of looking too far ahead and projecting future sales deliveries and margins.
And I think that we don't -- we certainly don't want to get ahead of ourselves or encourage anybody to get ahead of where we are.
What we are seeing is strength in our numbers.
We have an improving environment that is yielding increased pricing but also increased cost.
We've made some very important strategic land acquisitions.
We have some mothballed communities coming back online.
There are a number of positives but we're still working through an uneven kind of recovery.
So I don't want to answer the question by guiding to a gross margin range.
But as we sit here today the outlook is fairly positive with increased volumes and a good strategic position.
Research Division</strong> All right I appreciate that.
Second question mortgage approval process has stabilized and even marginally has begun to get better.
We actually saw last week we were with another builder that pointed to actually a new mortgage product out there which is the first we've heard in some time.
I was wondering if you could elaborate on your remarks in terms of either if you're seeing either new mortgage products out there or the approval process elaborate on how it's getting better either from a paperwork standpoint perhaps or just the standards overall.
Okay let me take that Mike.
As we highlighted first of all from the mortgage approval process appraisals have been -- appraisers have been cooperating with the price increases that we've been seeing coming through.
So that's been helpful in the process in terms of the mortgage approval process for the full amount of what we're selling the homes for.
We're seeing people coming out of the penalty boxes for some of the short-selling foreclosures where they were put aside until they eliminated that.
Income levels have been improving and in general we're seeing the trend positive in terms of approval percentages.
And I don't know Rick if you want to add anything to that.
No I think it's just been that we're seeing quality buyers out there that really want to execute.
The process has gotten more streamlined of recent and things are going in the right direction.
So still tough but definitely gotten much better over the last quarter or so.
And the next question is coming from Ivy Zelman Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Alan on for Ivy.
First question is just on the corporate G&amp;A.
I know you highlighted in the press release that there was an increase there from some increasing share based in variable comp.
Is there any color you can give us on how to kind of think about that going forward? I know you indicated it's about 2.9% of revenues.
Is that kind of a good bogey to use? Or should we think about that maybe as a percentage of EBITDA or share price or some other way that we can kind of model that going forward? Sure Alan.
This quarter because of the success we had with the bottom line that ties directly into the way that we're compensating our management team which is bottom line profitability.
So the variable compensation expense is what drove the majority of the corp G&amp;A increase.
And then we also -- this quarter there were some shares that were issued as well so that there was some share-based compensation expense that hit as well.
I do want to tell you that there's still been tremendous focus on G&amp;A at both the corporate and the field level and we think there's going to be leverage as our volume picks up but there is a component that's tied to the bottom line profitability with the variable comp expense.
As far as an exact percentage we came from the low 1% so I think we're at 2.9% now.
I think over time as volume picks up that percentage should come down because a lot of that corporate G&amp;A expense is not tied to volume increasing or profitability growing.
So I do think we'll get leverage.
I don't have an exact percentage to give you right now but I think over time we'll continue to migrate down off of that 2.9% going forward.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And on the Financial Services side on the mortgage business can you give us any color on the composition or types of refi loans that you're doing today? Where are those loans generally sourced from? And does the composition in terms of split between FHA GSEs LTVs are they similar to your purchase out in the Homebuilding business? Or is there any difference there? There's a lower percentage of FHA/VA as you're looking at the refi business.
I don't have the exact percent on the refi business.
Our FHA percentage came down this quarter.
If you look at it combined FHA/VA down to about 53% and of that 53% FHA was 37% and VA was about 16% of that 53% number.
So the sourcing of that business it's being sourced by our loan consultants in the field.
As you remember we had a company called Eagle Mortgage that we combined into Universal American Mortgage and we have loan consultants around the country that are focused in driving that business.
Research Division</strong> Any difference in terms of LTVs or anything FICO scores credit quality? No I wouldn't say that there's a lot of difference other than as far as LTV in a refinance you're going to have a lower LTV than you will because you're going to have less FHA business less purchase business.
So we're dealing with highly qualified buyers FICO scores and credit quality remains high.
Those people that are able to refinance do have good credit today.
The next question is coming from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask you a question with respect to your pricing power that you're beginning to see.
Obviously some of that is a broad statement about the market but also you've done a number of things operationally that are kind of company-specific as well.
Notably some of your product offerings are a bit different from your peers.
I was wondering if you've done an analysis on the degree to which you believe some of the shifts you've made or the difference I guess that exists in your product offering versus your peers think of things like Next Gen and your Everything's Included and so forth to what degree that may have led you to enjoy better price appreciation than the broader market.
Well there's no question good product sells for a higher price and we've been very successful in introducing new plans.
Our Next Gen plans The Home Within a Home have been selling incredibly well and commands a premium in the marketplace.
Our EI packages our EI platform is doing extremely well too especially in an environment where you've got labor issues in order to get things built.
They're easier to build they're faster to build.
We take the confusion out of the selection process and as a result we command very decent pricing for that.
We've instituted price increases across the board and the good news is they're sticking and we've been consistently pushing prices up really every month.
We don't want to kill the momentum out there but at the same point in time we're very focused on the bottom line right now.
Yes just let me add to that.
The pricing side of the equation is not the only part that product is instrumental in driving.
Just as Rick was talking relative to our EI platform we've consistently said that EI enables not only an easier and more orderly program for construction but it also helps us contain the natural trend upward in construction costs.
And so while pricing is kind of reverting to normal and is kind of moving up so too are costs and our EI platform our product strategy is really helping us to contain that by keeping a simple program in the field and a consistent kind of SKU purchase that enables us to negotiate costs a little bit better.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Rick I noticed you didn't actually give me any numbers to work with but that's all right and follow up later.
Following up though Stuart on your comments there about efficiency I mean that really touched on something that I think folks are going to be wrestling with over the next couple of years.
There's a general presumption in the market that the builders -- that Homebuilding doesn't really lend itself to economies of scale.
And certainly all the things that you've been talking -- you just talked about would seem to argue that there are.
I think it's going to be one of the major determinants of just how high your operating margin can get this cycle.
And so in that regard I was thinking -- I've been thinking about the evolution of the business over the last 10 years or so and it seems to me that the business has been -- has seen the opportunity to extract economies of scale through the use of management technology and information technology and information sharing across regions in a way that didn't exist 15 years ago.
But at the peak of the market you guys were so frenzied that my sense is that you really didn't have the opportunity to fully explore those opportunities.
And so this upturn is really the first period where we're going to actually see the potential to extract economies of scale that have been made available through improvements in information sharing and so forth across regions.
Do you agree with that general view? And if so could you give us some sense not just of what you're doing now but what you were doing now that you couldn't do before at the peak of the cycle to give us some sense of where operational efficiency may lead to higher margins? This is Rick and then I'll flip it over to Jon.
Just a couple of examples and maybe to back up during the depths of the market decline it was a tough experience for all of us but it gave us an opportunity to completely restructure the way we do business.
We went from purchasing materials in every division to centrally locating our regional operating centers.
So right now we've got 3 instead of 27 or 30 purchasing centers.
And the visibility that we have across the country is just tremendous Steve.
Another example of it is that during the downturn we were able to de-bundle labor and materials.
We were purchasing things in the heat of the market on a turnkey basis and now we've separated those 2 things into different cost components.
Once you start doing that it's tough for the trades to get back into a turnkey type of program.
But those are some examples of how things that we've done during the downturn things we're focused on continuing today that give us an incredible amount of operating leverage as things start to grow.
Jon any other thoughts? Sure.
Steve the unbundling point that Rick mentioned tied together with software and technology enabled us to do takeoffs and estimates of our plans much faster than we're able to before really gives us a clarity into the details of purchasing that we didn't have before.
And when things are moving very fast it's hard to implement those.
When things were slower we were able to implement those.
And I think as things continue to pick up that will pay off from our ability to really track material usage and shift materials quickly when we need to.
And then on a pure sort of technology side today we have rolled out iPads in the field and our construction managers are able to communicate very quickly with architects and engineers find solutions communicate information.
Those things that used to take a couple of days perhaps can now get solved in a matter of minutes and all those will add to our efficiency.
So kind of direct answer we're kind of thinking as we look ahead that there will be economies of scale that reveal themselves in this recovery differently than we've seen in the past.
It is a combination of technology and the adjustments that we've made to our operating platform.
And all of this dovetails very well with our Everything's Included operating program.
The next question is coming from Steve East ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Stuart if we stay on the cost a little bit could you just give us an idea of what type of inflation you're seeing right now coming through your balance sheet -- or your income statement and just sort of rank order between the material costs or labor costs and the land inflation? And then looking at the land what you're trying to buy now Rick? You talked a lot about it.
What type of inflation are you seeing in land on a year-over-year basis? Okay Steve Jon reviewed a couple of those construction concepts.
I'm going to toss it over to him and then Rick will come back on the land side.
When you look at what's happening with the material cost you've seen the biggest increase in lumber where that represents about 7.5% of our construction spend and you've seen that go up anywhere in the 20% 25% range and then you go down to other materials that most of them represent 2% or 3% of the total spend.
And in total I think we've seen probably about a 5% increase.
And because that represents about 42% of our sales price it doesn't have a big impact if any one item goes up on our margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then on the land side of that equation? Yes Steve one thing to keep in mind as you look at us and you think about the land a lot of the stuff that we're purchasing today was put under contract a year 2 years 3 years ago.
And so it's coming on balance sheet at prices that are sub where market is today.
The things we're contracting for today if they're finished homesites that's immediate that's a retail type of purchase and we're still able to command 20% gross margins in that kind of stuff.
Prices are up over a year or 2 ago maybe 5% to 10% in various cases but you've got to keep in mind that those are high ROI deals that move very quickly so your operating leverage is tremendous if you can get good finished homesites.
As far as the raw land deals that we're doing right now there's still a shortage of folks out there that are pursuing those because there's different philosophies as to whether you want to internally develop or buy from other folks.
We've been very very aggressive in purchasing all throughout the continuum of the land curve.
I've said it before we are I think the best land company out there.
And you've seen some of the jobs we've brought on Steve.
It's tremendous.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that.
That's helpful.
And then if we look at -- Stuart just sort of looking at your segments and geographically the comparative nature of your business what's going on and what you're seeing and then just an update on your second fund in Rialto where you stand with it.
Well relative to the second fund in Rialto because we're in the -- we're in a quiet period relative to that fund I really can't comment on that.
The one thing I will comment on in that regard is fund 1 as Jeff reported is really performing at a very high level.
We can -- we have continued to generate an extraordinary pipeline of potential deals and that continues to enable us to invest very attractively the remaining funds in fund 1 and it leaves for us a nice backlog of opportunities that are already identified and in line to begin fund 2 as it is raised.
I really can't give any color beyond that.
And the first part of your question was? Research Division</strong> Just looking at geographically and maybe price point segment how -- what you're seeing across the country.
Okay I just want to highlight that that was a compound question was unrelated so we noticed that.
Research Division</strong> I was trying to slip the fund 2 in there.
Okay I know the shoehorn.
In any case relative to -- regionally I've highlighted that the recovery of market is pretty much across the country right now but it's pocketed.
And we continue to see pockets of strength in all of the major markets across the country and it's kind of expanding from there.
So I really wouldn't -- I wouldn't highlight one region versus another as being -- as kind of outperforming.
We do see strength in places like Florida and some of the Eastern Seaboard markets.
In California some of the markets are coming back stronger than others.
In terms of price point we still see a trend in favor of move-up purchasers.
The lower end is still a little bit more constrained.
But there is a recovery going on in a broad-based way across the country.
It's just very pocketed and very locally focused.
The next question is coming from Ken Zener KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could clarify of the 124 000 owned/controlled lots what percent of those are owned? I think last quarter it was 100 000.
And the kind of the breakdown of your finished lots versus your mothballed lots.
Sure.
Out of the 124 000 Ken about 106 000 are owned and the rest are controlled.
And as far as the mothballed homesites -- I'm sorry the finished homesites you asked finished homesites let me give you a dollar amount because we don't typically break out the number as far as homesites go.
Finished homesites have been running about $540 million as far as a pure finished homesite.
Now if a homesite is in progress construction in progress there'll be a component of finished homesites included in our CIP as well.
That's not right [ph].
Research Division</strong> So what I find interesting is I think given your 8 000 purchases this quarter if my math's right you've done about 48 500 lots since the -- in the last 3 years which should be 1/2 of your owned inventory.
Can you describe just to be clear your community count of 444 does that include just owned or is that owned and auctioned? And how does that kind of work out as you open up your mothballed communities next year? What's the kind of margin you're seeing on those? Let me just highlight the way that we call an active community.
Anytime a community has 5 or more homes to sell and it's actively selling we call it an active community and that's what makes up the 444 number that Rick gave you.
So if we're not building in a community and don't have an ongoing sales presence construction activity it's not in our community count.
The second question was on the 25% of the...
Research Division</strong> Right.
What the incremental -- to the extent you're saying your new lots were coming in at 200 basis points above your benchmark how are you seeing the mothballed component come on? It's pretty much in that line.
The new things are about 200 basis points higher than the overall average for the company.
As we bring in the legacy or inactive communities it starts off a little slow because we want to build momentum then generally we bring pricing back up.
You got to keep in mind that we hung onto these communities for a good reason because we knew the markets would come back we took appropriate value hits on the assets and we don't want to start selling them too cheap so we're waiting for the appropriate time to bring them on board.
Research Division</strong> And what percent of the mothballed is represented in these new openings next year? I don't have that with me right now.
The next question is coming from Joshua Pollard Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> The first one was in your prepared remarks you said that there was a little bit more visibility in planning your business.
Can you talk specifically about what you guys are expecting for next year in terms of community absorption rate? I think it was 3.2 this quarter versus 2.2 last year.
You're talking about 40% growth just on that metric.
That's before you start getting in the community count.
So could you talk a little bit about what you're expecting there and also what you guys are looking for in terms of price increases and whether or not the 8% in your backlog is a good precursor? Well Josh we kind of knew that that remark might spur this kind of question.
We're really not ready to start going out and giving too much forward-looking guidance and we're still keeping our view fairly short recognizing that we are in the initial stages of recovery.
What we're really seeing is a sense of consistency starting to present itself.
And so as we look ahead rather than that very rocky bottom that we endured for quite a long period of time we're starting to see a lot of consistency in our quarter-over-quarter movements and are able to do some better planning around that expecting that we're likely to see more consistency going forward and kind of more stability in the way things look ahead rather than saying that we're going to get out over our skis and start projecting.
So we're not really giving guidance as we go ahead but we are saying that we do have a good sense that the market as we look over the next quarters is likely to show some consistent trends with what we've been seeing.
Research Division</strong> Stuart that brings up an interesting question.
Back in '05 when I first picked up this group the entire group used to give guidance.
What things do you guys need to see before you'll start feeling a level of confidence to give guidance to investors again? Oh boy I'm going to let Bruce answer that.
Research Division</strong> Sorry Bruce.
I was leaving that one for Stuart.
Yes look as we go forward I think we'll have to look at the environment as we go but we've given some guidance with gross margin as we've had stability.
You don't have the land impairments that we've had to deal with.
We're seeing the ability to raise prices so we've given some level of our thoughts on gross margin.
As far as activity going forward I think when there's more clarity as to how many of the communities are actually coming out and whether the sales -- how much the sales pace might be changing it will be a lot easier for us to give guidance because there's so much operating leverage the volume's going to drive a lot of what we might guide.
So I think we're going to look at this again very closely.
We're in the middle of our planning season.
And with the next quarterly conference call after we come out of the planning season we're going to be discussing what kind of metrics we can give for next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay sounds good.
Last question around your gross margins you said 200-basis-point spread between your newer land and your older land at 23.5% that simply says 24.5% and 22.5%.
But what I'm trying to understand is how low are you guys willing to go on high turnover high returns land? What are the gross margin metrics? And how low are you guys willing to go on that metric? And then I want to understand if your mothballed land because of the write-downs end up at the higher end of that spectrum or at the lower end because I think it's somewhere in the middle.
Mothballed you guys could have taken a lot of write-downs versus it being older land and I'm not sure if mothballed land is something that we should be thinking of as additive to gross margins or a bit of a detractor.
Well that's a lot of questions within one.
You tricky guy you.
Okay with regard to the finished lot or finished homesite opportunities that are high ROI and lower grosses I don't want to really give you a number for competitive reasons as to where I would draw that threshold because that gets into overall strategy.
But what I can tell you is that we -- depending on the number of communities the proximity of that community to another community that we're operating in Josh we'd be willing to work with a lower margin because the overhead the incremental overhead is de minimis.
So if we're drawing that line from an underwriting standpoint at basically 20% which is what the basic threshold is across the country today it would be below that but not much all right? With regard to the margin and the gross margins in our mothballed communities I tell you that there'd be some that are high and there'll be some that are below.
All of them have been appropriately impaired.
But as you have some things that were mothballed there could be some just A locations in there that we chose to not bring online because we knew that the market would be really strong at some point down the road and that we'd be selling them too cheap.
Those would be infill locations that we just decided to sit on.
The last question is coming from Steve Stelmach FBR.
Research Division</strong> Just real quick 2 questions one on the FDIC impairment.
I know earlier I inferred maybe you guys mentioned sort of a political process slowing our seats on some of those issues.
The ID audit [ph] I believe was due in August.
Did that have any impact on that $20 million impairment? Or was that completely a separate -- entirely separate evaluation on your part? No and this is Jeff.
No impact totally separate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Did you see the results of that? I know you guys have been a long strong partner with the FDIC and this seemed more politically driven than FDIC-driven but...
We have not seen -- I personally have not seen the final report yet.
It may have been issued but I have not seen it yet.
I did see a draft.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then the second question goes back to the economies of scale question.
When I think about your operating business I think of it more -- the operating leverage more in terms of your land acquisition strategy your balance sheet financing leverage.
Economies of scale while positive incremental is that more of a secondary and tertiary issue versus the others? How should I think about that? The operating scale is actually a very big issue.
To the extent that you bring on additional communities or you bring on additional sales per community the incremental overhead that you have by bringing on a new community is basically the builder that you have in that community the cost of the model in that community and the variable sales commissions associated with the sale.
To the extent that you can add a community that will generate 100 closings in a year that's a lot of money that pumps down to the bottom line.
So the revenue associated with that allows us to spread the overhead across all the units.
I think the kind of metric that we kind of think about is that when you add absorption per community you're only adding about 4% of SG&amp;A.
When you add a new community an additional community whether it's a retail developed homesite community or otherwise you're adding about an incremental 7% 7% to 8% and that compares to where we are right now at 12%.
So that's where you're seeing your operating leverage is either in increasing absorption or increasing the number of communities with an already existing division.
That's -- and it works in combination with all of those other factors sales price and otherwise.
Okay great.
So that will wrap up our third quarter conference call.
We look forward to reporting back as we close out our year end and look forward to a continuation of recovery in the housing market.
Thank you.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to Lennar's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
David Collins for the reading of the forward-looking statements.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Today's conference call may include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to Lennar's future business and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements may include statements regarding Lennar's business financial condition results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar's estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any insurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could cause Lennar's actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar's annual report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Yes thank you and good morning everyone joining us for our fourth quarter and year-end 2012 update.
We're certainly pleased to share our results with you this morning.
I'm joined by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; and Dave Collins our Controller.
Additionally Rick Beckwitt our President; and Jon Jaffe our Chief Operating Officer are with us.
And Jeff Krasnoff as always Chief Executive of Rialto is here to participate as well.
We have recently been together and completed our year-end review and our 2013 look ahead with our regional and division presidents and we'll share with you some of our insights.
I’ll begin this morning with some remarks on the overall state of the housing market.
Jon and Rick will provide further color on our homebuilding operations.
Jeff will update the Rialto segment and Bruce will provide some detail on our Financial Services segment as well as some more color on our overall numbers.
As always after that we'll open up to questions and we request that during our Q&amp;A time period that each person limit themselves to one question and one related follow-up.
So with that let me begin.
2012 was a turnaround year that confirmed that we had been -- what we had been seeing and communicating for several quarters and that is that we are in fact in the early stages of the housing recovery.
The recovery began in micro markets across the country and it's continued to spread to larger pockets.
In the second half of this year recovery had taken hold across the country and has readily been seen in spite of generally negative economic data.
While the current more positive economic data still lags behind what we continue to see in the field it along with information from reliable economists have instilled a new level of consumer confidence in the housing market.
While there have been and still are economic and political uncertainties ahead we feel that this housing recovery is fundamentally based and driven by a long-term demographic need for housing.
2012 therefore we believe is just the beginning of the recovery as single-family starts come off their lows at just under 600 000 compared to the 50-year household formation average of 1.25 million households per year.
Recent years' low housing starts and household formations have created a large pent-up demand of homebuyers who started reentering the housing market in 2012 and are likely to continue to do so into 2013 and beyond.
As this incremental pent-up demand unwinds homebuilders are gaining pricing power.
And after years of home prices falling in 2012 the trend turned positive initially stabilizing and then allowing for price increases across the country.
Prior to this reversal the fear of purchasing a home and losing equity kept many would-be purchasers sidelined in spite of historically low interest rates and fully loaded monthly ownership costs being low.
With the added pressure of price increases on-the-fence consumers have generally begun to come to the market to take advantage of low home prices and low interest rates.
Further fueling pricing power has been the record low levels of both new and existing home inventories as the staff inventory has been absorbed.
New single-family homes for sale in November were up slightly from their all-time record low of 142 000 homes to 151 000.
While existing single-family home inventory continued to decline through 2012.
Additional drivers for homeownership have been the continual increases in rental rates which on average increased about 4% this year as vacancy levels reached their lowest levels in over a decade at 4.5%.
It's estimated that there was slightly more than 200 000 multi-family units started in 2012 which is well below the long-term average of 340 000 per year.
Across the country homeownership monthly payments are more favorable versus rental rates.
With the difference greater than it's been since the early 1970s rental rates are projected to continue their upward trajectory due to a general lack of supply.
While rents continue to increase the cost for monthly homeownership remains at very low levels.
Impacts from rising home price increases had been largely offset by decreasing interest rates which reached a low of 3.35% in December.
If consumers are able to obtain a mortgage they are doing so and in turn saving money on their monthly expenses.
The highly conservative mortgage market however is still restricted to many consumers.
But with further regulatory clarity as we've seen in recent weeks the mortgage market should continue to open up at its margins.
In our fourth quarter new orders were up 32% over last year and our backlog was up 87% and the highest level it's been in 5 years.
Gross margins improved to an industry-leading level of 23.5% a 410-basis-oint increase over last year and operating margins increased 660 basis points to 12.2%.
Margins continue to benefit from our recent land acquisitions higher home prices lower incentives and operating leverage from greater absorption per community and more sales overall.
Our average selling price for the fourth quarter was $261 000 a 7% increase over last year.
Our homebuilding operations have been improving due to a strong operating strategy complemented by an excellent management execution.
Our Financial Services segment had another strong quarter with operating earnings of $33.2 million compared to $9.1 million last year.
Our mortgage company captured some 78% of Lennar homebuyers within the markets in which it operates.
UAMC has also benefited from a robust -- from the robust refinancing market.
Lennar home mortgages should continue to grow alongside of our expanding homebuilding business and more than replace refinancing earnings as they begin to taper off.
On the Rialto side of our business 2012 was a year of many milestones.
Rialto closed out its first investment fund the PPIP program which garnered an overall 25% rate of return.
In the spring Rialto issued $132 million securitized loan inside of fund -- our first real estate fund and that money went back into the fund to be reinvested.
Additionally our first Rialto Real Estate Fund was fully called within 6 months following its final close and total investments in that fund are around $1.1 billion including commitment leveraged reinvestment of returns and co-investments.
We now have excellent visibility and firmly believe that returns for Fund 1 will well exceed expectations.
The success of our first fund enabled Rialto to announce a few weeks ago the first close of Fund 2 in the amount of $260 million with Lennar investing $100 million.
Financially Rialto continues to contribute to our bottom line every quarter contributing $4.6 million of operating profit in the fourth quarter and $26 million for fiscal year 2012.
And as we go forward Rialto should remain a solid earnings contributor and will create substantial long-term value for our shareholders.
Along with Rialto 2 other long-term value-creation initiatives have come to maturity.
First we've been incubating a multi-family rental business strategy that Rick will discuss shortly.
We've assembled an all-star rental community development team and are poised to become a major participant in this market.
We've also matured our FivePoint land company which Jon will discuss shortly.
FivePoint was initiated during the downturn to manage the restructuring of Newhall Land and Farming.
FivePoint has now become the preeminent manager of large complex master-planned communities in the Western United States and will benefit substantially from the recovering market.
Both of these initiatives while not short-term earnings producers for 2013 will provide significant long-term value for our shareholders over the coming years.
In conclusion let me say that after 7 years of navigating an unprecedented market downturn we finally saw stabilization and recovery in 2012.
As I reflect on where we've come from and where we're going I'm optimistic that through -- that though there will be political and economic headline risks the drivers of our business are fundamentally sound.
As the housing market continues its overall trajectory back to normal it will provide stimulus to the overall economy through job creation as well as building consumer long-term wealth which for generations has been a benefit of homeownership.
Today Lennar stands alone with 5 distinct yet complementary operating platforms positioned to capitalize on a recovering real estate market.
Our homebuilding machine is fully charged and continues to gain market share.
It is well positioned and extremely well managed and will continue to be our primary driver of current earnings.
Homebuilding is supported and enhanced by our Financial Services segment which will grow in step with the homebuilder and continue to develop its third-party operations to enhance its bottom line.
Rialto continues to expand its franchise and invest in high-yielding alternative assets while supporting the homebuilder with access to off-market homesites.
Our growing multi-family platform provides an additional long-term and complementary growth opportunity for the company and inserts Lennar's name in the -- into the homes of thousands of prospective homebuyers prior to their first home purchase.
And finally FivePoint with its large long-term California land assets simply couldn't be better positioned to reap the benefits of an appreciating land-constrained housing market.
I am confident of Lennar's position in today's marketplace and rest assured that our growth trajectory is supported by a strong balance sheet with an exceptional group of people who'll be able to navigate through the challenges and toward the opportunities of 2013.
And with that let me turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Stuart.
As in prior quarters I'm going to talk about our land acquisition activities and then discuss our new apartment operations.
We are really pleased with our operating results this quarter.
We exceeded expectations across the board benefiting from extremely well-purchased land assets.
During the fourth quarter we continued our land acquisition program.
This quarter we purchased approximately 5 500 homesites for $242 million and we spent $79 million on land development.
Combined our land acquisition and land development spend was up about 47% over the prior year period.
In addition we signed contracts to acquire approximately 2 750 homesites.
From a geographic standpoint approximately 45% of our land spend in the fourth quarter was located in the West 26% in Florida 9% in Texas 8% in the mid-Atlantic 6% in the Pacific Northwest with the remaining 6% spread throughout our other markets.
As in prior quarters money was invested geographically in the markets we saw the best opportunities.
In Q4 we invested heavily in California and Las Vegas.
We also have continued to invest aggressively in extremely high-margin opportunities in Florida and Texas 2 of our strongest markets.
While the land market has heated up we have found no shortage of great land opportunities.
We continue to source land outside of the competitive bid environment with the help of Rialto and deep-rooted relationships with local land sellers.
At November 30 2012 we owned and controlled approximately 128 000 homesites and had 459 active communities.
While we had guided to a slightly higher year-end community count last quarter we sold out early in a few communities due to the faster-than-projected sales pace and some new community openings into the first quarter.
In any case we still anticipate ending the year with approximately 550 active communities with the majority of these new communities coming online in the second half of the year.
On a year-over-year basis our inventory at the end of the fourth quarter increased about $1 billion to approximately $4.7 billion and this excludes inventory not owned consolidated inventory not owned.
During the fourth quarter approximately 54% of our deliveries came from communities purchased or put on a contract during the last 4 years.
And the gross margin on those closings was about 200 basis points higher than the company average.
Now I'd like to discuss our multi-family operation.
Many of you who follow the company know that we've been nurturing a multi-family rental business for some time now.
We entered this business following almost a decade of no new apartment supply because we saw significant pent-up demand and favorable long-term fundamentals.
Despite a market rebound in the for-sale housing market demand for rentals has accelerated while supply remains extremely constrained.
As demand for new sale housing continues to increase from historically low levels rental demand has continued to grow fueled by expanding household formations credit- and down-payment-challenged new homebuyers and a steadily improving employment picture.
As a result we believe that our core homebuilding business and our new rental segment are very complementary and that both should flourish in this recovering market.
Multi-family segment began operations in early 2011 and was initially focused on maximizing the value of our underperforming single-family land assets by converting them to rental developments.
During 2011 we expanded the scope of this operation to include acquiring new multi-family land assets and seized an opportunity to build an apartment business in a vibrant and growing rental market while our core homebuilding business was recovering.
Today our multi-family operation has a national footprint with offices in Atlanta Charlotte Chicago Dallas Denver Miami Orange County San Francisco and Seattle.
We have an outstanding team of seasoned apartment development professionals for leveraging the entire Lennar organization to access development opportunities and harness the company's overall purchasing power to become a low-cost producer of Class A apartments in the multi-family space.
In 2012 we commenced construction on our 2 developments.
We partnered with the Prudential Real Estate Investors for the development of a $32-million 264-unit community in Johns Creek Georgia just northeast of Atlanta.
Johns Creek is a highly amenitized Class A suburban infill community.
The 3-story garden product is located in North Fulton County adjacent to Technology Park an extremely low-vacancy market.
We also partnered with The Carlyle Group for the development of a $36-million 316-unit community in Jacksonville Florida.
This 4-story suburban infill community is ideally situated less than 50 yards from the campuses of 2 major employers.
We expect to deliver our first phase of apartments in each of these communities by the end of the second quarter.
In addition to these communities we have a geographically diversified development pipeline that exceeds $1 billion and over 6 500 apartments.
In 2013 we plan to start construction on approximately 3 000 apartments with total development costs of approximately $560 million.
The capitalization structure for our new multi-family partnerships is approximately 30% equity and 70% debt.
Lennar will invest up to 25% of the required equity with the remaining equity contributed by third-party institutional sources.
The debt is non-recourse project-related construction financing provided by regional and national banks.
From an overall capital perspective Lennar will typically invest approximately 7.5% of the total development cost of each community.
At November 30 2012 we had approximately $30 million invested in this new business and we see that increasing to $100 million by the end of fiscal 2013.
Consistent with our homebuilding business our underwriting has been extremely conservative.
Our underwriting assumes today's rents and targets an unlevered yield on cost of at least 125 to 150 basis points over prevailing cap rates for class A apartments.
Depending on the specific deal structure and the economics our expected returns assuming a sale 1 year after stabilizations should yield an IRR to Lennar's equity investment of between 25% and 45% and a cash multiple greater than 2x.
While we anticipate merchant building and selling some of these apartment developments once they are stabilized our long-term goal is to build a portfolio of high-quality class A income-producing properties across the country.
With the benefit of Lennar's purchasing power and excellent access to unique land opportunities from both Lennar and Rialto we feel we are extremely well positioned to become a leader in the apartment development business and create significant shareholder value.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Jon.
Thank you Rick.
And good morning.
In the fourth quarter our sales pace continued at a healthy 3 sales per community per month even as we entered the traditionally slower part of the year and so far we have seen continued sales momentum through December into the first part of January.
Our increased sales activity has allowed us to focus on improving our pricing power.
Our year-over-year average sales price increased by $18 000 or 7% to $261 000.
About 40% of that improvement came from a reduction in sales incentives by 320 basis points from 12.2% to 9%.
Our ability to improve our sales prices net of incentives has enabled us to cover the increases in labor and material costs that are occurring and grow our gross margins by 410 basis points from the fourth quarter of 2011.
We believe we will continue to improve our net sales price and be able to offset ongoing cost pressures.
For the full year of 2013 we expect our average gross margin to be between 23% to 24% compared to 22.7% achieved in 2012.
Let me give you some color as to what we saw with respect to construction cost increases.
Together labor and material costs are up $0.64 per square foot year-over-year.
This equates to about $1 600 per home.
First I will discuss the labor component of that which represents about 40% of construction costs.
Labor remains under pressure as housing starts accelerate and hiring by trades is slow to gain momentum.
Many trades remain cautious about hiring as they wait to see that the housing recovery is fully established.
We're seeing the greatest pressure and therefore cost increases with framing and drywall labor.
Construction Materials also continue to experience upward price pressure.
As starts have increased demand for products is outpacing the ramp-up in production capabilities by manufacturers as they're cautious to commit the capital to reopen closed plants.
As housing starts continue to rise we expect manufacturers will add back capacity.
The material categories that have increased the most over the last year are lumber drywall concrete cabinet and insulation.
At Lennar we maintain an intense focus on analyzing field construction variances and value engineering.
[Audio Gap] area to note is that cycle time has lengthened on average by 10 days as compared to last year and it ranges from no change in some markets to 25 days in markets that are more labor constrained such as Phoenix parts of Texas and parts of Florida.
This increased cycle time combined with a larger number of early stage sales and backlogs will result in a backlog conversion ratio of about 75% in our first quarter.
We then expect the ratio to be about 90% for the balance of the year.
I'll wrap up my comments with a brief discussion on the activities of FivePoint Communities venture in California.
Their business model is to create extraordinary value by obtaining development rights for large mixed-use projects and land-constrained markets.
This team manages the 12 000-acre Newhall Ranch community in Los Angeles that will ultimately have 27 000 homes and apartments and 13 million square feet of commercial uses.
The first 2 maps totaling 5 500 homesites and 2.2 million square feet of commercial uses are in the final stages of completing the entitlement [ph] process and will be brought to market in the next 2 years.
In Irvine California located in the heart of Orange County is the former El Toro Marine base.
This master plan of over 2 500 acres will be home to the development of the Great Park which is larger than New York's Central Park.
In 2012 5 000 homesites and 1.2 million square feet of commercial uses were approved.
FivePoint has also filed an upzoning application for an additional 5 800 homesites and 4 million square feet of commercial uses.
Land development has commenced on the first phase of 726 homesites where Lennar and 7 other builders will grand open 10 villages this summer.
[Audio Gap] Park all located in the city of San Francisco.
These committees will total over 20 000 residences in almost 5 million square feet of commercial uses when completed.
All 3 are fully entitled and land development has commenced at Hunters Point.
Located in 3 of the best markets in California Los Angeles Irvine and San Francisco the development of these communities totaling over 55 000 homes and apartments and over 20 million square feet of commercial uses will produce significant earnings for Lennar and its partners in the coming years.
Thank you and I'd now like to turn it over to Jeff.
Thanks Jon and good morning everyone.
Rick and Stuart have already discussed Rialto's role in the homebuilding story; and as usual Bruce will cover more of the numerical details behind our financial results as part of his comments.
The bulk of our contribution for the quarter and the year has been coming from our growing investment management business where we invest both our capital and that of third parties in funds and other vehicles.
We participate in our share of the income from our investments in these vehicles as well as the fees and carry interest we receive related to managing those investments.
Our first investment vehicle was the public-private investment fund in partnership with the U.S.
Department of Treasury and AllianceBernstein.
We originally helped to raise the private equity which was then matched with government equity and advantageous financing providing our team with approximately $4.5 billion to invest in and manage a large portfolio of mortgage-backed securities.
During the fourth quarter we finalized our last sales of the underlying securities in our fund and made our final distributions to the partners including us.
On average we had $61 million of our equity invested in the fund and we've now brought back all of that investment as well as profits and fees totaling $112 million while generating a 25% internal rate of return for the company as Stuart mentioned earlier.
The Rialto Real Estate Fund was the first fund on our own for which we raised $700 million of private equity including $75 million from us.
All of our distressed and high-yield investment opportunities since late 2010 were made through this vehicle.
We've now invested as Stuart mentioned approximately $1 billion of equity in the fund which includes all of the original commitments plus another $300 million of capital we were able to recycle earlier than anticipated from asset resolutions principal and interest payments property income and financings.
We've been able to invest in almost 60 different transactions amounting to about $2.7 billion of assets based on unpaid principal balance for less than $0.40 on the dollar.
Activities here helped to contribute over $10 million to the company during the quarter from our share of the fund's underlying earnings including our fees and reimbursements.
Overall our actual performance has continued to exceed our original underwriting.
At the end of September the net asset value for the fund represented a 26% internal rate of return for investors.
In addition if we continue on this path on performance we would expect to exceed the return hurdles set for our investors which means that over time carried interest would import back to Rialto as the manager of the fund.
And none of that potential value is represented in our earnings today.
And now that our first fund has reached full investment as Stuart mentioned we expect to continue our program uninterrupted through our second fund which in late December had its first closing of commitments of approximately $260 million including $100 million from us.
Earnings from our early on balance sheet investments including our structured transactions with the FDIC continued to lag as a sluggish environment and broad government oversight and involvement have increased our cost to levels we had not anticipated and often in advance of the related revenues.
It's worth noting that we made these investments before we refocused our investment strategies utilized our funds acquiring assets directly from banks and including more assets with invoice cash flow.
We've remained very focused on our investments to create long-term value and bring cash back into the company to be recycled.
This was an active quarter in cash flow generation from these transactions and then to date we have brought in well over $700 million of cash to reduce debt and to begin recycling capital back to the company.
Our FDIC transactions have effectively less than $100 million left in net collections in order to fully repay the original $627 million of seller financing after which we will begin getting our capital back.
We expect to begin seeing this later this year and into next.
For the near term we continue to see compelling opportunities for our core areas of expertise including a clearing of distressed and subperforming assets from financial institutions; the growth of CMBS finance where we have been a market leader; and providing the vital capital and managements repositioned and refinanced real estate assets.
Looking forward our ability to add new diverse sources of business on our already existing management base of over 230 professionals and our growing fund program and investor base continues to move us further towards our initial plan of utilizing third-party capital to drive return on investment and to create a valuable investment-management platform.
We're excited about the future and look forward to reporting to you on our progress.
And with that I'm going to pass it over to Bruce Thanks Jeff and good morning.
Our net earnings for the fourth quarter were $0.56 per diluted share.
This morning there seemed to be a little confusion surrounding the tax line on our income statement.
This morning there seems to be a little confusion surrounding the tax line on our income statement.
Let me clarify that line.
We had an $18.6 million net tax benefit for the quarter which added $0.08 per diluted share.
Our guidance last quarter was to assume no tax expense for the quarter.
Excluding the impact from this tax benefit our net earnings for the quarter were $0.48 per diluted share.
Let me provide a little more color to the results that you've heard this morning.
The company's average sales price increased 7% year-over-year to $261 000.
The average sales price by region is as follows: the East region was $245 000 which was up 11%; Southeast Florida was $264 000; that was down 1% which was due to product mix changes; the Central region was $230 000 up 9%; Houston was $241 000 up 6%; the West region was $310 000 up 1%; and the Other region was $352 000 which was up 4%.
Our Financial Services business segment delivered another strong quarter generating operating earnings of $33.2 million versus $9.1 million in the prior year.
The fourth quarter improvement was helped by the strong refinance environment leading to higher volumes higher profit per transaction and strong operating leverage.
Mortgage pretax income increased to $30.9 million from $9.1 million in the prior year.
We integrated the Eagle mortgage operations into our Universal American Mortgage platform over the past year thereby leveraging both platforms and driving efficiencies.
The consolidation of the back offices secondary marketing and system enhancements resulted in a stronger platform to handle this year's increased volume.
This quarter's mortgage originations increased by 52% to $1.4 billion.
Originations with non-Lennar homebuyers were 53% of the total originations and that was primarily driven by the increase in the number of refinance transactions.
Our title company had a $2.9 million profit in Q4 and that compares with $1.5 million in the prior year.
That was driven by a 31% increase in revenues.
Adding a little more color to Rialto the $4.6 million of earnings compares to $8 million in the prior year.
Both amounts are net of noncontrolling interest.
The composition of the $4.6 million of operating earnings this quarter by type of investment is as follows: The first Rialto Real Estate Fund contributed $4.2 million of earnings; the FDIC portfolios contributed $800 000; the non-FDIC wholly owned portfolios had a $3-million profit.
And these amounts were reduced by $3.4 million of G&amp;A expenses and other which is net of management fees and reimbursements of $7.8 million.
As Jeff highlighted we successfully completed our PPIP investment and as a result there is no income statement impact this quarter from the PPIP.
This quarter we reversed $45 million of the remaining deferred tax asset valuation allowance leaving the $89 million in that valuation allowance going forward.
If our earnings trend continues we expect a majority of the remaining valuation allowance will reverse in 2013.
Our balance sheet liquidity improved in the fourth quarter with $1.1 billion of cash and no outstanding borrowings under our $525-million 3-year unsecured revolving credit facility.
We continued our balance sheet strategy of pushing out debt maturities while driving down our cost to capital as we raised $350 million of 4.75% 10-year senior notes during the fourth quarter.
And during the quarter we also received the ratings upgrade from Moody's from B1 to Ba3.
Our net debt to total capital improved by 80 basis points to 45.6% over the prior year and our strong net earnings of $679 million in 2012 was the primary driver of a 27% increase to stockholders' equity ending the year at $3.4 billion.
Turning to 2013 while it hasn't been customary to provide earnings guidance I wanted to summarize what has been said on the call today and highlight a few additional items for next year.
As Rick highlighted we expect our ending active community count to be approximately 550 at the end of 2013 with a heavier concentration opening in the second half of 2013.
Jon highlighted our backlog conversion ratio will be around 75% in the first quarter and then should be about 90% for the remainder of the year.
He also highlighted that we continue to see a positive gross margin percentage trend increasing from an average of 22.7% for all of 2012 to between 23% and 24% as an average for 2013 with the typical seasonality throughout the year.
Financial Services has seasonality as well and that will continue in 2013.
We do expect that the number of refinance transactions will slow down a bit in 2013 and the profit per transaction in the mortgage business is likely to moderate throughout the year.
As Jeff highlighted Rialto is in a transitional year.
PPIP was successfully completed in 2012 and Fund 2 will be ramping up throughout 2013 so Rialto profitability is expected to be more back-loaded in 2013.
Excluding the impact from additional deferred tax asset valuation allowance reversals we expect to have an effective tax rate going forward of approximately 39%.
We are well positioned going into 2013 and look forward to another successful year.
With that let me turn it over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is coming from Ivy Zelman Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> I wanted to drill in a little bit on -- Stuart on your comments related to the mortgage market.
I guess my first thought is do you think that the stringent mortgage environment is an impediment to growth for 2013 '14 and beyond and that it's necessary for that marginal buyer to have access to mortgage liquidity? Or can you continue to show robust growth despite the fact that there is credit stringency because there's enough pent-up demand or incremental buyers that have the credit? And then secondly on the QM you mentioned QM was a clarity relapse.
Do you have any comments for us to understand the 3% capital as it relates to your mortgage company please? Yes.
As to the first question Ivy I think that there is a lot of pent-up demand.
That's what we're seeing in the field.
There's a lot of sentiment that people want to find their way into homeownership and are willing to push through a much more conservative mortgage market in order to do that.
Remembering that new homebuilding is coming off historic lows and trending upward we think that there's a lot of room for growth even in a somewhat moderated environment.
I think that the mortgage market does present itself as somewhat of a limiting factor.
We do not see nor do we think it's healthy for the mortgage market to revert back to the liberal standards that we came from but a reversion to normal which will take some time is likely as certainty is brought back to the rules surrounding the financial market.
So given the fact that there's very very strong demand very compelling reasons to move from a rental world to a for-sale world given the low monthly payments and given the fact that at the margins the mortgage market is opening up a little bit at a time we think that there's -- there are very healthy growth prospects as we look ahead to 2013.
And Bruce why don't I give it to you for the second part? Sure let me comment on the QM definition that just came out this past week.
So there's a year before this goes into place and it's been given a year to work through some of the clarifications that are included.
So this clarification needs quite a bit of further clarification so it's unclear at this point how that's going to work out.
But right now the 3% we think if you include the closing costs that we contribute to the buyer in the process if that's not included in the 3% then it's essentially a very minimal issue.
So the clarification of how our contribution is included is important to figuring that out.
We have a year to work through that so certainly no impact of this year.
And we think it's likely to be worked through and we're not expecting any major impact as we go into next year at this point.
LLC</strong> No that's a great answer.
And I guess my follow-up question Stuart could you talk then about a lot of the I guess variables in the market that you're faced with and challenges? There's a lot of concern in the investment community about cost inflation which you addressed the labor shortages and certainly concern about the land inflation.
It seems as if your greatest concern would more likely be about at least from your company's perspective is the continuation of replenishing loss as they get absorbed probably more quickly than you anticipated.
Can you just give us sort of a ranking to the challenges and is that cost inflation labor shortages just a natural part of the cycle? And if not a concern to you certainly execution is everything? But I think it would help if you clarify to the investment community your thoughts on these issues that are the most pressing and yet challenging but not debilitating.
Well okay.
So look I think that I said there's -- there are political and economic headwind risks out there.
There's a big noise factor and some of these things can impact the market especially consumer confidence.
But I think overall our view is that we're coming off of a very severe downturn.
The fundamental reasons for recovery are really pretty solid and fundamental right now.
We think additionally that consumer confidence is really on a recovery kind of ramp.
And so I'm going to kind of take the macro picture out of the equation in terms of my biggest concerns right now just because I think that the more housing recovery -- recovers the more jobs there are in the marketplace.
The more jobs there are the more confidence there is.
And the more people are employed the more likely they are to go out and buy a home.
So to me I kind of feel like the toughest part of the business is probably the part of the business where we are at our maximum strength and that is in a recovering market land becomes the biggest constraining factor.
Across the market right now it is the biggest constraining factor for builders.
Driving community count and finding new locations is very difficult.
I think we have the A team on the field both between Rick Jon and their respective leaders of the company and our Rialto complementary component.
I think that the toughest risk factor the land factor is one that we have well covered but I do think it's a risk out there as you look beyond 2013 into '14 and '15 as the market recovers.
On the cost side of the equation I think it's healthy and appropriate that costs start to go up in a recovering market and it actually portends better things for the economy.
The fact that labor shortages are starting to present themselves and wages are starting to move up really says that the economy is on the mend unemployment is likely to go down.
And as unemployment goes down confidence goes up.
So we're going to see some cost pressure but offsetting that cost pressure we think are increasing sale prices which if you look at the relationship in terms of percentages between cost and revenue costs have to go up and up an awful lot before revenues don't cover.
So I think that there's some risks out there.
I think the macro is manageable.
I think land is our area of expertise.
And I think that the cost increases are actually healthy and will be offset by revenue.
The next question is coming from David Goldberg UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question has to do with the multifamily business and I think you guys did a great job talking about the capital allocation and the kind of capital build and equity build you guys expect in '13.
What I'm trying to get an idea about is as you look toward the future and you look at the 5 different platforms are they competitive for internal capital? And I want to get a little more color about the decision-making process as you think about allocating capital between the businesses because it seems like the hurdles that you're kind of solving for aren't that dissimilar between the homebuilding business Rialto the multifamily business and then anything else.
Well I guess from an overall capital perspective David I would tell you that all capital competes within the company.
We invest in the individuals and the assets that produce the highest returns.
That's what we've done consistently throughout this recovery.
We dedicated a certain amount of capital for each platform in order to grow those platforms and create value.
And depending on how each one of those platforms is capitalized because the multifamily operation includes a lot of third-party capital we can grow a very sizable business quickly without using a lot of Lennar capital.
So we do dedicate capital to each business.
The returns have a tendency to be consistent amongst all the businesses which is a good thing and that gives us the luxury of investing in the best of the best.
Let me just add to that David that one of the advantages that the public companies have right now is access to capital that is very very strong in many ways unprecedented.
It gives us a lot of opportunity to deploy capital and having various arms in which -- through which to do that is we think a real benefit.
But keep in mind that whether it's the Rialto strategy or the apartment strategy or FivePoint all 3 of these are primarily focused on third-party capital primarily with a small portion of company capital invested at a sizable return in line with what we do on the homebuilding side.
But we're building franchise value and ultimately long-term shareholder value in building these platforms and growing them forward.
It's multiple avenues for investment limited investment in some of these programs with a strong opportunity for franchise value in the future.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just as a quick follow-up I kind of wanted to ask Ivy's question about labor in a different way.
What I wanted to get an idea about was how you feel like your labor subcontractor force is capitalized.
And do you think one of the reasons they're a little slow to react in terms of new hiring and expansion is because they're having trouble financing that expansion? And how does that affect you? And how can you guys help? No from what we've been able to see in the field it does not seem to be that our subcontractor base is limited by their ability to capitalize their growth.
We think that they're getting paid almost on a real-time basis as the competition for labor out there requires current payment.
So that's not really the limiting factor.
I think you have somewhat of a natural dislocation of the labor force through a downturn where the labor force especially in a protracted downturn seeks and moves elsewhere and goes to other parts of the economy.
Drawing that labor back is a function of job availability and wages starting to move up.
That's happening in the field right now.
And I think you're seeing a little bit of a timing issue that is going to work its way out.
I would just add to that David that for the trade they want to be cautious not to hire and then find that because of political noise and headline risk the market is not as robust as it seems and then they've got to lay off again.
So there's a lag time as Stuart says between when they'll actually feel comfortable in hiring and when we need them to be hiring.
The next question is coming from Stephen East ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Actually this is Paul Przybylski on for Stephen.
I was wondering with respect your cost increases are you seeing those move up at a steady rate or are they accelerating? Or are we seeing any type of plateau? And then how does that relate to the increases in ASP that you're seeing? Well it varies across the range of materials.
It's not -- one answer doesn't fit all categories.
So lumber we're seeing lumber futures reach high levels so that has accelerated.
Concrete has accelerated.
But other materials have plateaued.
And I think that you're going to see a fluctuation as we look forward based on capacity to deliver those materials against the levels of increased starts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could sneak in one more.
With your land purchasing right now are you being able -- are you able to pencil deals closer to what we just did in 2012 or closer to your 2013 guidance? Our underwriting assumptions haven't changed since we started buying land a couple of years back.
We benefit because we're a little bit further advanced and further along the land continuum pipeline so we're really investing today in deals for 2014 2015.
Don't be confused.
We still are underwriting to extremely high margins and you can see it in the numbers.
The next question is coming from Michael Rehaut JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> First question just on the gross margin guidance 23% to 24%.
Bruce you mentioned some seasonality and just wondering if that would certainly then imply if I'm just understanding that correctly that you would expect year-over-year improvement perhaps to continue throughout the year given the trends of home price appreciation and lowering of incentives outpacing cost inflation.
The answer is yes we do expect year-over-year improvement in gross margin percentage and the seasonality as we've seen last year starting with lower gross margin in the first quarter and building up through the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question on the Rialto earnings breakdown it's been somewhat choppy in terms of the different line items and appreciate some of the clarity.
And we've had PPIP closing out and it had a gain last quarter.
FDIC had a loss last quarter but part of that due to some impairments.
How should we think about the FDIC the $740 million of bank loans the real estate in terms of trend lining throughout 2013? Should we expect gradual improvement? And also with -- as you get closer to fully defeasing the FDIC debt would there be any type of more perhaps material improvement in those earnings? Or is that a non-factor from an accounting standpoint? Let me say that Rialto continues to be a little bit choppy and a lot of that derives from the initial FDIC deal.
We invested a lot of company capital in that deal with the -- with a higher expectation of return.
We've talked about this in past quarters.
Those levels and expectations have come down in large part because the resolution the market for resolution of distressed loans just has been different than our past experience.
And so what we're looking forward to with the FDIC program is a complete defeasance of the debt and then a return of that capital to be redeployed and at much more substantial returns.
That's the negative side of Rialto.
The positive side of Rialto is that every investment since that FDIC has built on that initial start-up investment and has been a success in terms of our underwriting standards which were recalibrated and the new investments coming in.
So there's a little bit of an offset.
There continues to be a little bit of choppiness in Rialto as we look ahead as 2013 continues to be a transitional year.
But Rialto is becoming a very substantial manager of third-party capital and investing that capital extremely well.
And as we enter our Fund #2 we're expecting a lot of success and bottom line growth.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate it.
Can I squeeze one more in on SG&amp;A real quick? Sure.
Research Division</strong> You had an incremental variable rate on SG&amp;A in 2012 of roughly little over 6%.
How should we think about 2013 as you're growing your community count fairly substantially? Sure.
So again as we're growing our community count substantially there's a couple of things to think about.
Number one we're still selling at a sales pace that's well below normal.
So this last quarter we had 3 sales per community per month.
When we get closer to 4 sales per community per month then it will kind of flatten out.
So there's more leverage that we will be seeing in the SG&amp;A line as volumes increase and even though we're opening new communities.
Additionally the variable expenses we did have some doubling up last year because we had different stock awards that that compensation expense was flowing through in 2012 and some of those are no longer being expensed.
So we don't expect on the corporate side the G&amp;A to go up at the same level.
We expect to get a lot more leverage on the corporate side.
The next question is coming from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you a sort of a general question about your expansion into multifamily.
You guys more than any other builder have really demonstrated an ability to sort of move into alternative streams of profitability and this seems like yet another opportunity it seems like a good one.
I guess in helping us understand how large this opportunity could ultimately be -- I know you've laid out some general guidelines in terms of the next year or so but thinking out more broadly than that are there certain -- can you help us think what the limitations are for this business if there are any that you foresee in terms of it relative to your homebuilding platforms in all the various markets that you're in? For example are there ways that you can easily express markets that you're in in a homebuilding basis that you wouldn't be interested on a multifamily basis? Are there certain resources and the types of land acquisition opportunities that you see typically that are suitable for multifamily and where there are certain limitations? Or is this a business that you could scale pretty freely relative to your homebuilding operations? Well Steve it's Rick.
Clearly we've got the footprint out there to grow a very sizable business.
If you look at the major metropolitan areas that we are in we can scale a business relatively quickly in those markets that will be sizable.
You see that within a year we had created about a $1-billion pipeline.
I think that's just scratching the surface of what the opportunity is out there especially as we leverage the mother ship and growing this through purchasing and synergies from an overall operating standpoint.
If you'd step back and when you look at the basic fundamentals of a land buyer we are -- we often in the past would sell the multifamily pieces the commercial pieces for someone else to sort of ring the bell and make a lot of money on.
And as we sat and looked at what we were doing in the land market in a recovering market it didn't make sense to not maximize the skill set that we had in place.
It's easier to build a multifamily complex than it is to actually build separate homes.
So what we did is we structured an organization we've surrounded ourselves with talent and we've been building this business and it will become very sizable.
Let me just add to that and say that look one of the drivers that we had in moving forward with multifamily is first of all historically multifamily has been 2 3 350 000 starts a year and that's consistent over a long period of time.
There is a consistent demand for multifamily and we think we have a distinct advantage.
We're already looking for residential land.
Often it's an appendage of a broader or bigger property that we're already purchasing.
We have the Rialto eyes also out there for these types of properties.
And we have the complementary construction business that's already in place where we can leverage efficiencies over a broader community.
But our general thesis relative to entering multifamily is given the severe downturn in the residential markets over the past years given the limited supply of rental that is out there the recovery of the housing market would be moderated by a much more conservative mortgage market going forward which means there will consistently be a large group of people who simply can't buy a home and won't buy a home and are looking for rentals.
And then all of the major markets where we build for-sale homes there's going to be a sizable demand for rental at the same time side by side.
For-sale housing will continue to recover.
It'll be moderated by a sluggish or conservatized mortgage market and rental will remain strong as well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Well that's a pretty exciting opportunity and I wish you the best of luck with that.
I wanted to ask you a question if I could switch back to the more pedestrian homebuilding side of your business and it's related to the gross margin guidance.
I just wanted to clarify the guidance you've given there.
For while it's strong and you guys have seen a nice recovery in gross margins already I was -- I'm thinking that perhaps some are wondering if it could have been stronger your guidance could have been stronger.
And I'm curious you mentioned that there is an upward trajectory in prices but I assume that your gross margin does not assume or embed in it an increase beyond what we've seen thus far in prices.
I'm curious as to whether or not that's true and also whether or not you are assuming any increases in costs next year for the units that you're going to be building next year perhaps costs that were negotiated in a bit of a -- at the end of last year or being renegotiated now that will be at a higher level in 2013 for example that's embedded in your assumption as well.
So this is Bruce.
To answer your question Steve that is correct.
We're not assuming higher average sales price increases than what we've seen number one.
And number two we are seeing some higher costs embedded in our guidance but our guidance is really saying that we believe we will more than offset the cost increases that we're seeing in the business right now between sales prices going up some sales incentives coming down bringing in some of these new communities that we keep talking about that are at a higher gross margin than the company average partially offset by some cost increases that we're expecting through 2013.
The next question is coming from Bob Wetenhall RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up I think on Rick's comments.
It sounds like Johns Creek and the Jacksonville build-out are ramping up pretty quickly.
When should we start to anticipate seeing any meaningful or material impact for the multifamily business on the P&amp;L? And what's the trajectory? You used the word in the press release incubate? What point do you feel the business really has scale that really matters to the Lennar story? Well from an earnings standpoint Bob given the fact that these things take 1 year to 1.5 years to 2 years to build you've got to lease them up and stabilize them.
So you're looking at probably 3 years out before there can be a pretty decent stream of income if we're going to sell the properties.
In a perfect world what we'd do is we'd have a development operation where we'd sell the buildings and then we would also be a piece of the operating company on the other side through a fund ownership structure where we can accumulate a huge portfolio of income-producing properties that would benefit the company on the long-term basis.
So it was an earnings drag for us in 2012.
It's not going to produce earnings in 2013 but in '14 and '15 you'll start to see some contribution from this new business.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just staying with the multifamily there's some pretty established operators and there are like Equity Residential and Avalon Bay but at the same time it sounds like you feel it's not too crowded an environment.
Is this just really a kind of bold call on the recovery of the multifamily segment as well as single family? Well as Stuart and I highlighted the growth opportunity in multifamily is pretty big today especially given the fact that the business has been shut down from a new product standpoint over the last decade.
We see significant opportunities out there.
You got to keep in mind that a lot of people that play in the multifamily space are not developers they're actually going out and acquiring existing assets out there and paying the cap rate.
We do feel that we have expertise in development.
It's not any different to build a condo building than it is to build a 3-story garden.
And we're going to capture that development profit and ultimately build a portfolio of assets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Good.
It sounds like a nice complement to your core homebuilding.
The next question is coming from Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Hansen on for Nishu.
I just wanted to ask you a question about you've got the 5 different businesses and obviously Financial Services is most complementary to homebuilding but then you've got the other 3 and I think you've kind of indicated in the past that maybe you would be willing to spin off Rialto in the right environment at some point in the future.
Now with FivePoint and the multifamily would you ever be willing to do that? And what kind of hurdles would you be looking for where you would come to that decision? Well just putting things in proper perspective I mean Financial Services is directly related to homebuilding but FivePoint likewise is a direct offshoot of our land and homebuilding operations as well so it's extremely complementary in much the same way.
The apartment component is really a side-by-side relationship as well and Rialto is a little bit more removed from our primary business.
With that said I think that the reason we highlight these other 3 businesses today is not by way of mapping out earnings for 2013 and '14 but by way of highlighting that within the company these are the things that we've been working on that we think create long-term value and potentially might be -- we've created them with the optionality of keeping them within the company to the extent that they enhance the bottom line going forward or spinning them out as self-sustained entities as we did with LNR in the 1990s.
We've highlighted that we might do that with Rialto.
And these other companies also can be stand-alones at some point.
It's maximum optionality for the creation of shareholder value over the long term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the multifamily business is a lot of the source of the land going to be coming from Rialto? And then also have you looked at -- you kind of thrown out the longer-term multifamily start summaries.
Have you looked at what kind of a normalized market share you could have of that? We haven't looked at market share what a normalized market share would look like.
In terms of where the land is coming from and will come from some of the land is coming from our own wholly owned assets that are being repurposed for apartment and brought to market sooner than they might otherwise be in a for-sale environment.
But by and large we've used that as a springboard to develop a first-class management team.
And most of the apartment rental communities or the land for those communities is being sought for exactly that purpose and is being purchased in the open market.
So there are new opportunities.
They might be side by side with for-sale or with something that Rialto is doing.
They're not coming from Rialto.
The next question is coming from Jade Rahmani KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Regarding Rialto does the increased interest in REO properties from institutional investors particularly single-family rentals create any opportunities such as through bulk portfolio sales through asset management of REO assets for portfolio holders or through the market's increased demand for REO properties more broadly? It's Jeff.
I'd say the demand really has -- has really impacted it's more on the sales side.
We've been an active seller of homes that we've taken back but not directly from consumers but from developers that -- where we may have bought the distressed debt.
I think to date we've probably sold about 1 000 homes.
So there's pretty good demand out there for it.
In terms of looking at bulk opportunities we've also been looking at some of that.
And we've been looking at some of the other opportunities that are out there that you've mentioned as we have not been a large entrant in the buying of single-family homes for rental.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Land sales picked up in the quarter and were at the highest levels since 2008.
Is this onetime in nature or seasonal or would you expect a further pickup going forward? And specifically could you look to monetize any of the internally developed land on purchases made during the market decline through an increase in land sales? Yes Jade land sales continue to vary from quarter-to-quarter.
So when this quarter's results do indicate that it's going to continue at that trajectory.
It will be a little bit lumpy from quarter-to-quarter.
And the last question is coming from Adam Rudiger Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back to gross margins but I wanted to talk about a little bit longer term if possible.
One I was wondering if -- what the impact from prior impairments was on gross margins right now.
And then I wanted to Bruce ask you what you think -- whenever you think we're going to be back in a new normal kind of environment of normal starts levels what you think gross -- Lennar's gross margins could be? And the reason I ask is because I think there's a lot of optimism built into your company and into the industry.
And some of the -- my competitors' estimates and some of the new estimates I've talked about with investors seem to suggest that gross margins in the next upswing are going to exceed prior cycles and that history is not going to repeat itself and you're going to have better gross margins.
So I was just curious what you thought of that and if that's the way you think things are going to play out.
So with respect to the prior impairments going through our gross margin it's not a number that we've tracked but what I would say is that that number isn't -- I won't expect it's very significant as we've been growing our volume and we had over I think it's 54% of our deliveries were coming from new communities at this time.
So that's not a very large number that's flowing through the P&amp;L is what I would expect.
And going forward as far as gross margins we think there are a number of opportunities for the gross margins to continue to grow.
And obviously we've talked about some of them today.
Average sales prices are still well below where they were at the peak.
And with affordability being very high there's room for average sales prices to grow especially as inventories as constrained as it is and the rent versus buy equation is in favor of buying.
We have more new communities coming online.
The gross margin in the new communities is still over about 200 basis points above the company average.
And we have sales incentives that are continuing to have the ability to continue to decline.
And then you have costs that will go up but that's a smaller percentage of the equation because your costs are less than 1/2 of the sale price.
So going forward there's room for it to go up but I think we just want to moderate it.
We want to see the results first before people get too carried away with the gross margin in their models.
Right.
Let me just say that we are looking ahead with a conservative view.
As we look at the market in general as we look at land constraint as we look at the recalibrated cost structure that we and others have in place and as we recognize that home prices are not skyrocketing and shooting up but they are reverting to normal which means in part the base price of homes is going up.
And in comparable part we are eliminating an incentive structure that has been rather dramatic in order to sell homes during a downturn and that is working its way out.
There's real opportunity for margins to go up.
We're going to cautiously look ahead seeing our margins go up in orderly progression.
But I think that there is opportunity to the upside in terms of margin growth.
And I think that's a large part of why you're seeing a lot of people who look at the housing market today look ahead to the next couple of years and say with land shortage and with a reversion to normal in pricing and elimination of incentives there's a lot of opportunity for margin growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think that's exactly why I'm asking the question because -- and I just -- I guess what do you think the -- I mean a lot of the things you talk about makes sense but those things have to happen all of your competitors have to act that same way so do you think there's a -- is there -- traditionally the industry liked to say 18% to 20% was the gross margin and that's what everybody said.
And do you think there's an industry kind of cap where incentives might be where they are and you can reduce them but somebody's going to then lower them to take some share? So how much of your optimism recognizing you're still being conservative but how much of that might be tempered by the industry's structure? And how do those 2 levers counteract each other? Well I think we have seen that in prior recoveries.
As I look back we've certainly seen that as the market recovers people do sometimes moderate the margin they can get with the one that they trade off for volume.
What -- but the governor here is the scarcity of land.
You just can't replace the most important commodity as readily as we've seen in the past.
And therefore when you look at the competitive landscape if someone's got a good land position they'd better harvest the best margin that they can or that land is going to dissipate and they're not going to be able to replace it.
That's the governor that's out there and why we think that margins have more opportunity to the upside than risk to the downside.
All right listen thanks everyone for joining us on our fourth quarter update and we look forward to reporting through 2013.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to Lennar's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
David Collins for the reading of the forward-looking statement.
Thank you.
Today's conference call may include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to Lennar's future business and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements may include statements regarding Lennar's business financial condition results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar's estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could cause Lennar's actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar's annual report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Great.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us for our first quarter 2013 update.
We're pleased to share our results this morning.
I'm joined this morning by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; Dave Collins who you just heard from our Controller; and Diane Bessette our Vice President and Treasurer.
Additionally Rick Beckwitt our President; and Jeff Krasnoff Chief Executive Officer of Rialto are here with us here as well.
Jon Jaffe our Chief Operating Officer is available by phone for the Q&amp;A session.
We also have with us Eric Feder who has been a bridge for deals within the company and today is his birthday so we asked him to join us for the conference call today.
So happy birthday Eric.
I'd like to begin this morning with some remarks on the overall state of the housing market recovery and then briefly overview our operation.
Bruce is then going to provide some detail on our Financial Services segment as well as some additional color on our overall numbers.
And as always we'll open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] So to begin let me make 4 macro points about the housing market recovery.
First housing is recovering and the recovery is consistent healthy and growing stronger.
We saw from yesterday's housing starts and permits numbers that the recovery in housing is continuing to progress in both multifamily and single-family products.
This data confirms what we've seen in the field for some time.
There has been an underproduction of housing during the downturn as we produced as few as 550 000 homes per year during the downturn of both multi- and for-sale product.
This is very close to the rate at which homes become obsolete.
So for some of those years we had essentially no net production against the normalized household formation rate of some 1.25 million annually.
This shortfall will have to be made up and the market is beginning to move in that direction.
Second point national numbers continue to be tricky to interpret.
On Monday the U.S.
homebuilder confidence number showed a decline which suggested that the recovery might be stalling or might not be as robust as expected.
Against that backdrop yesterday's numbers confirmed continued recovery.
In our view the conflict in the information rests in the fact that the homebuilder confidence survey is primarily a polling of smaller private builders.
Their lowered confidence reflects their limited access to capital and in turn a limited access to land.
The larger builders have had access to capital and land while the market was depressed.
And since then land prices have moved significantly.
Late participants in the land market are having difficulty participating in the market recovery and are not able to solve to acceptable margins in their underwriting.
The lack of builder confidence against the backdrop of increased starts and permits supports our thesis that larger builders will increase market share while also participating in the broader market recovery.
Land positions owned in the context of housing recovery is driving homebuilder confidence.
I suspect that a builder confidence survey of the larger well-capitalized builders would reveal substantially higher confidence.
Third point the recovery is based on strong market fundamentals.
Low interest rates and relatively low home prices continue to produce low monthly payment rates which compare favorably with local rental rates.
Not only is for-sale housing extremely affordable but it is a preferred and more stable alternative to rentals which reprice every 12 months.
Inventories are low for both new and existing homes as demand increases there are fewer homes to purchase and prices are being driven higher.
Distressed homes are being absorbed by the investor community and repurposed as rentals.
While these homes are primarily in secondary and outer fringe locations they would not compete with new product anyway and they're being taken out of the for-sale pool as the market rebuilds.
In the short term these rental homes are helping to fill the void of the short supply of rentals for a growing demand.
In the longer term as these homes are put back on the market they will likely be purchased by the renters that are in them as they find that they can qualify for homeownership.
We do not view this as a looming inventory problem.
Finally resurgent demand for homes is constrained by the mortgage market currently which has constrained demand with an overly restrictive underwriting criteria.
Slowly however the landscape is improving as banks are beginning to reconsider their credit underwriting overlays and open the doors to more approvals.
While this process has been and continues to be slow to mature we've come a long way since last year at this time and we expect to see further definition of the regulatory environment leading to a further extension of credit to the market.
While there have been and still are economic and political uncertainties ahead we feel that this housing recovery is fundamentally based and driven by a long-term demographic need for housing.
We believe we are still in the beginning stages of a recovery that will be sustained for several more years.
Now turning to Lennar.
Lennar has been and continues to be very well positioned for the current recovery in housing.
This is reflected in our first quarter 2013 results and in our positioning for the future.
In our first quarter new orders were up 34% over last year and our dollar value of backlog is up over 100% to the highest levels it's been in 5 years.
Gross margins improved year-over-year to an industry-leading 22.1% a 120-point -- basis point increase over last year.
And operating margins increased 410 basis points to 10.1% reflecting the operating leverage in our absorption growth.
For the full year 2012 we expect our average gross margin to be between 23% and 24%.
Margins continue to benefit from our proactive land acquisition strategy as well as higher home prices lower incentives and operating leverage from greater absorption community of 3 per month which is a 20% improvement over last year and then of course from more sales overall.
Our average selling price for the fourth quarter was $269 000 a 9% increase over last year which covered the increases in labor and material costs which increased approximately 4%.
Our homebuilding operations have been improving due to a strong operating strategy complemented by excellent management execution.
Additionally we opened 80 new communities and closed out 55 communities during the quarter to end at 484 active communities a 14% year-over-year increase.
We continue to expect our year-end community count to be approximately 550 communities as our land acquisition strategy drives our growth.
Today we are fortunate to have the land in hand to meet our projected deliveries through 2014.
As a result we are primarily pursuing land opportunities for 2015 and beyond.
This is an enviable position in today's market a position that was earned through a very strategic land acquisition program that began in 2009.
This program has put us several steps ahead of the competition and allows us to fish in a different pond.
We're using our balance sheet to tie up land opportunities that will produce strong margins for years to come.
Many of those assets are large-scale multiyear flagship development deals.
Rialto has continued to play a very big part in our land program and I want to thank the team for their hard work and dedication.
Complementing our homebuilding operations our Financial Services segment had another strong quarter with operating earnings of $16.1 million compared to $8.3 million last year.
Our mortgage company captured some 79% of Lennar homebuyers within the markets in which it operates.
Mortgage operations have also benefited from a robust financing market.
Lennar home mortgages should continue to grow alongside our expanding Homebuilding business as well as serve non-Lennar purchasers in selected markets.
While our Homebuilding and Financial Services divisions are the primary drivers of near-term revenues and earnings our 3 additional operating divisions are all maturing to be excellent longer-term value creation platforms for the company.
Rialto continues to grow as a blue-chip private capital investment management company.
While current earnings have slowed as we have shifted from balance sheet investment to a fund investment model the prospects for future consistent earnings continue to improve.
We've now invested or committed almost $1 billion of equity in Fund 1.
Performance for the fund is already well ahead of original projections and subsequent to year end we started distributing capital back to investors.
In addition if we continue on this performance path we expect to well exceed the return hurdles set for our investors which means carried interest with an oar to Rialto as the manager of the fund.
None of that potential value is reflected in our current earnings picture.
Finally in December Fund #2 had its first closing of commitments of approximately $260 million including $100 million from us and we've already started investing that capital.
Lennar multi-family our apartment division commenced construction on an additional 2 communities in the quarter and now has 4 communities under construction nationwide with a growing pipeline.
And FivePoint Communities is quickly moving to bring developed land in premium locations to the market to fill the growing demand for well-located approved and developed homesites.
In conclusion as I reflect on the current positioning of Lennar and the state of the current housing recovery I could not be more optimistic about our future.
The housing market is healing and recovery is accelerating as we produce shelter that is needed for a growing population and a return to normal levels of household formation.
As the housing market continues its overall trajectory back to normal it will provide stimulus to the overall economy through job creation and building long-term consumer wealth which for generations has been a benefit of homeownership.
Our homebuilding machine is extremely well positioned and continues to gain market share.
We have excellent land position in a constrained land market and we have an excellent management team that will continue to be our primary driver of current earnings.
Homebuilding is supported and enhanced by Financial Services which will grow in step with the homebuilder and continue to develop its third-party operations to enhance its bottom line.
Rialto continues to expand its franchise and invest in high-yielding alternative assets while supporting the homebuilder with access to off-market homesites.
Our growing multi-family platform provides an additional long-term and complementary growth opportunity for the company.
And finally FivePoint with its large long-term California land assets simply couldn't be better positioned to reap the benefits of an appreciating land-constrained housing market.
Although there will be political and economic headline risk the drivers of our business are fundamentally sound.
I am confident of Lennar's position in today's marketplace and rest assured that our future growth is supported by a strong balance sheet with an exceptional group of leaders who will be able to navigate through the challenges and towards the opportunities of 2013.
And with that let me turn over to Bruce.
Thank you Stuart and good morning.
I'll provide additional colors to the numbers starting with the homebuilding segment.
Revenues from home sales increased 40% in the first quarter which was driven by a 28% increase in deliveries and a 9% increase year-over-year in average sales price to $269 000.
The increase in deliveries resulted in a 79% backlog conversion ratio which exceeded the 75% expectation given on our fourth quarter conference call.
The average sales price by region is as follows: The East region was $251 000 up 13%.
The Southeast Florida region was $271 000 up 2%.
The Central region was $258 000 up 17%.
Houston was up 12% to $258 000.
The West region was $294 000.
This was down 7% but that was due to product mix.
And then the other region was $339 000 down 6%.
Our gross margin on home sales was 22.1% and that compared with 20.9% in the prior year an improvement of 120 basis points.
The gross margins from our new communities purchased since 2008 continue to outperform the company average gross margin during the quarter and they represented 57% of the company's deliveries in the first quarter.
Sales incentives were $23 300 per home and that was 8% as a percentage of home sales revenue.
The sales incentives improved by 420 basis points or $10 900 for home delivered versus the prior year.
The gross margin percentage for the quarter was highest in the East and Southeast Florida regions.
However this quarter's results had an increased product mix coming from the Central and other regions where the gross margin percentage is lower than the company average.
As we highlighted on our fourth quarter conference call there is seasonality in our gross margins and it tends to be lower in the first quarter and then typically increases throughout the year.
This is due to lower closings in the first quarter as well as higher field cost due to preparing to open more communities as well as winter-related costs in our communities.
Our SG&amp;A percent increased -- improved by 290 basis points to 12% this quarter.
This is the incremental operating leverage that we have been discussing for some time as our volume and particularly our absorption per community increases.
Through the downturn we transformed the entire company to be on our Everything's Included platform and we eliminated our design studio divisions remaining from the U.S.
home acquisition.
This move allowed us to eliminate multiple divisions in the same markets.
And as a result the number of homebuilding divisions has been reduced from 124 divisions at the peak in 2006 to 29 today.
This is resulting in significant operating leverage on our G&amp;A line.
Additionally we have focused heavily on using social media to attract our homebuyers which has significantly reduced our advertising costs.
With the improvement in both gross margin and SG&amp;A our operating margins as Stuart mentioned improved by 410 basis points to 10.1%.
During the quarter we purchased approximately 9 400 homesites totaling $472 million and we invested $120 million in land development.
Our homesites owned and controlled now total 135 000 homesites.
Turning to Financial Services.
Mortgage pretax income increased to $16.4 million from $8.9 million in the prior year.
The first quarter improvement was again helped by the strong refinance environment leading to higher volumes and higher profit per transaction.
This quarter's mortgage originations increased by 60% to $1.2 billion and originations with non-Lennar homebuyers were 58% of total originations this quarter.
Again that was primarily driven by a robust refinance market.
Our title company had a $300 000 profit in the quarter compared with a $100 000 loss in the prior year.
Turning to our Rialto business segment.
They generated operating earnings of $1.7 million during the quarter compared to $9.4 million in the prior year.
Both amounts are net of noncontrolling interest.
The composition of Rialto's $1.7 million of operating earnings by type of investment is as follows: The first Rialto real estate fund contributed $6.4 million of earnings.
The FDIC and wholly-owned bank portfolios contributed a net of $300 000 of earnings.
And these amounts were reduced by approximately $5 million of G&amp;A and other which is net of management fees and reimbursements of $6.3 million.
At quarter end the FDIC debt net of cash available in the defeasance account and in Rialto's cash account was only $99 million.
We expect this debt to be paid off this year and then there will be significant cash flow generation back to the parent.
This quarter we reversed approximately $25 million of the remaining deferred tax asset reserve all of which pertains to state taxes.
We expect reversing another $30 million to $40 million this year if our earnings trend continues.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Our liquidity remained strong during the quarter with $1.1 billion of cash on hand and no outstanding borrowings under our $525 million credit facility.
We continued our balance sheet strategy of pushing out debt maturities while driving down cost of capital as we raised $275 million of 4.125% 6-year senior notes and $175 million of 4.750% 10-year senior notes during the first quarter.
We received a ratings upgrade from S&amp;P to BB- during the quarter and our net debt to total capital improved by 30 basis points year-over-year to 49.3%.
To recap what was said on this call and highlight a few additional items for future quarters in 2013 I'm going to list a few areas starting with active community count.
Stuart mentioned that we are on track to be at 550 for the end of 2013.
I wanted to remind people that there's a heavier concentration opening in the second half of the year.
We expect our backlog conversion ratio to be between 85% and 90% for the second and third quarters and then should increase to between 90% and 100% in the fourth quarter.
We expect to continue to see a positive gross margin trend during the year increasing from last year's average of 22.7% for the whole year to between 23% and 24% as an average for 2013 with the typical seasonality throughout the year.
We expect to see about 100 basis points year-over-year improvement in SG&amp;A percentage in each of the next 3 quarters remaining in 2013.
Financial Services.
We do expect that the number of refinanced transactions will slow as we progress through the year and the profit per transaction which is at very high levels right now will moderate as we go through the remainder of the year.
As highlighted on the call Rialto is in a transitional period as the PPIP investment was successfully completed last year and the second real estate fund will be ramping up throughout the year so Rialto's profitability is expected to be backloaded in 2013.
Excluding the impact from additional deferred tax asset valuation allowance reversals we expect to have an effective tax rate going forward of approximately 39%.
We're very well positioned as we start our second quarter with the strong backlog dollar value that Stuart mentioned and the favorable industry dynamics as well.
So with that let me turn it over to the operator and we'll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is coming from Stephen East ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Actually this is Paul Przybylski on for Stephen.
I was wondering if you could go over your philosophy on order pace versus price and what you're focusing on now as we move through the year.
It's Rick Beckwitt.
It's a delicate balance in the field.
We are reviewing pricing weekly in every community across the country.
We have been increasing prices probably every couple of weeks in some communities at least once a month in all communities.
And we balanced the pace-price split really on a local basis.
Our preference is to increase price over pace particularly in communities where we have a long position a lot of homesites to close out ahead of us.
And to the extent that we're on the back end of the community we may move through that community without too much price increase because of the incremental overhead associated with the fewer deliveries.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you spent $500 million on land.
What's your target for this year? I think that you could probably count on about $500 million a quarter.
The next question is coming from Michael Rehaut JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate your comments at the beginning Stuart where you mentioned in terms of some macro comments that you believe the housing recovery is actually growing stronger and that credit also is slowly improving.
I was wondering if you could give -- certainly your own trends are improving quarter-to-quarter particularly in terms of price and the comments that Rick gave are very helpful.
Are there any areas of specificity or granularity particularly as it relates to the market growing stronger? It kind of almost points to acceleration and I think that kind of belies some of the optimism particularly around pricing that you shared with us when we met with the last month.
Well I think Mike that -- I think that when we look backwards what we have generally seen is that the trends that start to reveal themselves in the national numbers and come through performance reports are things that we start to see and feel in the field early.
It's tough to be granular about these things.
It's more about traffic quality of traffic and the conversations at the field level that you're having with customers.
I've noted that this recovery is starting to feel fundamentally driven and fundamentally sound and it's primarily because the communications in the field are about people thinking about their monthly payment as it compares to rental rates their monthly payment as it compares to stability and disposable income.
And this is a real shift from people just kind of saying "Hey I want to own a home." It's about nickels dollars and dimes and making sure that they're managing their life as well as possible.
We are seeing that demand is growing.
It is somewhat constrained by the smaller funnel of mortgage approvals.
And so we're seeing not as much demand come through the numbers as demand is out there.
And the constraint of the mortgage approval process is really keeping the recovery more sedate than it feels like it wants to be.
And again this is somewhat of a feeling from the field.
Now looking at the mortgage approval process it feels like it's fairly static when we think about it in kind of real-time sense.
But if we go back a year or we go back 2 years the mortgage approval process has really liberalized itself quite a bit.
It was just a couple of years ago that it was virtually impossible to make your way through the maze of the paperwork and verifications that were required to get a mortgage.
And though those might not be hard credit statistics those impediments were just as severe as a 780 FICO score.
People didn't want to go through the morass of trying to get a mortgage.
Today it is a more streamlined process.
The buyer is educated as to what their down payment their FICO scores their credit status have to be in order to get approved and they're coming in more prepared.
Mortgage money is becoming marginally more available and I think that trend will continue as we start to get legislative and regulatory certainty injected into the banking system; the overlays will start to dissipate a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Great I appreciate that.
I guess the second question on the Rialto business.
I believe you said that -- in the release that there was a $7 million impairment.
Just wanted to get a sense of what that share was for Lennar's consolidated in terms of your pro rata share how that affected profitability.
And the real estate fund $6.4 million contribution as well is that something that we can assume will kind of continue in that rate? Or is it going to be kind of lumpy or maybe grow modestly? How should we think about that? Okay.
Let me start Mike with your first question the impairment of $7 million that was noted in the release.
40% of that is ours.
That's our share in the FDIC transaction.
And that's really based on as we look at our cash flows it's more of a timing issue.
As we pushed out the timing of some of the resolution of the assets that resulted in a little bit of an impairment.
So in our numbers it's 40% of that $7 million.
On the real estate fund question each quarter we go through a fair value analysis.
The real estate Fund #1 is doing exceedingly well.
And as Stuart talked about there being a significant carried interest that will mirror back to Rialto that's a significant amount of profitability that will come in at the tail end of the fund as opposed to on a regular basis.
So there's significant value creation there but that tends to be backloaded.
The quarterly amounts for the real estate fund will be based on the fair value of the assets each quarter.
Research Division</strong> So quarter-to-quarter it could differ? It's not as much of a stream? Sorry.
One more time Mike? Research Division</strong> I said so you're saying you've kind of a fair value analysis? So quarter-to-quarter it might differ as opposed to kind of like more of a consistent stream? Mike it's Jeff Krasnoff.
There is a consistent stream from regular operating earnings as well.
So the answer is it could vary quarter-by-quarter but it is an ongoing stream.
The next question is coming from Ivy Zelman Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> I guess I wanted to ask you Stuart given the success you've had in the quarter and arguably with the early signs of recovery many clients asked me the question "What can derail the housing recovery?" And the question is always posed and as we see the Federal Reserve now with zero fund -- fed fund rates QE3 likely to end potentially second half or first half of '14 how do we think about those risks and the potential negative impacts on the housing fundamentals and your just overall view on QE3 and the fed funds et cetera? Well look as I noted Ivy there are political and economic questions that could impact.
And clearly the government is contending with questions of how to deal with the debt issues.
And a radical mistake which I don't think we're prone to make as a country a radical mistake could derail everything.
So I don't want to minimize the possibility that something very severe comes our way in terms of political risk.
It just seems unlikely to me.
The strength of this recovery as I see it and as we see it in the field it really is driven by monthly payment and people desiring to find a stable way to identify their cost of living monthly cost of living in a static wage environment and maybe even a growing wage environment.
Because of those fundamentals I think that we are pretty secure in terms of moving forward and continuing to recover.
Now in terms of QE3 and the elimination of QE and all those questions we're really talking about interest rates.
And I think that we're -- as we look at our business we think that there's room for interest rates to go up without derailing the current trajectory.
If you really do the math and look at the impact of interest rate of an increase of 100 or 200 basis points in today's limited shelter alternatives environment we're likely to see rental rates get pushed up if demand shifts back over to rentals.
And therefore the comparison even at those higher interest rates is going to be favorable and people have to have a place to live.
So I think there's pent-up demand.
I think there's a shortfall in supply that derives from the downturn.
I think that the cost the monthly cost of living is where people are focused right now and we're likely to see a continued recovery.
That's my best guess.
LLC</strong> No that's very helpful.
I guess my question will be more specific to the strategy Rick you alluded to that you prefer to take price over pace but you have a balancing act to maximize.
And what many of our clients are struggling with is trying to differentiate builders and the positioning they have whether they were like you aggressive in the downturn utilizing your capital structure and positioning yourself.
Is it fair to say that even operators that are not as well positioned as long as home prices are going up that we should see generally for the industry and probably Lennar we'll outperform on margin improvement.
Because many think we're hitting a wall because of labor constraints or raw material inflation land inflation is getting too ahead of us.
So just your general comments.
I don't know Rick if you want to answer that.
Sure Ivy.
Clearly if prices continue to increase the industry will benefit from additional potential margin as long as the builders are careful and controlling the cost and the input cost into the homes.
We're working it every day.
We're not accepting all price increases that come through although we are taking some on the chin.
And we'll continue to work the inputs into the home.
And we have to value engineer to keep costs down that's what we'll do.
I think some companies and probably the publics are better at dealing with these type of issues than the privates are.
And we're optimistic that margins will continue to increase.
We've given that guidance throughout the year and we'll see where it goes Ivy.
Let me just add to that and just say that look the increasing costs come from land labor materials.
Our land component is really well identified over the next couple of years and the land that we're purchasing is for 2015 and beyond so we have a pretty good lockdown on the land cost relative to the homes that we'll be delivering over the next couple of years.
And that's a big component of what is in some instances a cost increase component.
From a labor and materials perspective we think that home price appreciation is likely as we go forward to continue to outpace the increases in those 2 areas.
We've seen that.
I think that we noted in our opening comments that sales price had increased some 9%.
Costs were somewhere around 4%.
Whether that's a relationship whether it tightened a little bit we still see sales price outpacing cost increases as we go forward.
One last thing I'll say is as it relates to land we are buying and have been buying a lot of land but a lot of that land is in our pipeline already: land deals that have been contracted for that are in diligence or in some form of entitlement process that are waiting to be closed.
So these land deals even as we close them from today going forward many of them were negotiated at a different point in time and help us lock down that cost component.
The next question is coming from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's John filling in for Stephen today.
Since you touched on cost could you maybe run through the various cost components and what specific materials you're seeing the biggest increase in price? And for those that you are seeing pretty dramatic increases in price is there any ability to hedge that away? Maybe if you could give some color on that.
Jon why don't you take that? Sure.
The materials where we see the biggest increases in order of that is lumber being the largest then drywall and then concrete.
On the labor side associated with that framing labor has seen the biggest stress and therefore the biggest increase; drywall labor as well; and then plumbing and paint labor.
Still seeing a lot of the metrics for pressure upward pressure on those material costs as we look forward and we expect we'll continue to see that.
And the way that we manage -- we don't go out and buy hedges but we through our national purchasing process lock in extended contracts.
And those vary in length depending on what the materials are.
So for example lumber which has been volatile we're typically locking in 3 or 4 months of pricing at a time.
Other products and materials we might be locking in a year at a time.
Labor tends to go on a community-specific basis in terms of time period that that's locked in.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's really helpful.
Then just wanted to get an update on the schedule for the big FivePoint Communities that you have out West.
I believe the first one to really come on is going to be El Toro.
But do you have any update as far as timing for those various communities? This is Jon again.
At El Toro we'll see our first transaction where we'll be selling homesites to builders closing sometime in our second -- sometime in this quarter and for builders to be having a grand opening of their products sometime later this year.
At Newhall we continue to move through the Valencia assets that are on the east side of the freeway.
And Newhall Ranch which is on the west side is still in its processing of its maps for that process so that's still probably about 18 months or so in front of us.
In San Francisco Hunters Point we'll see the first vertical product coming out of the ground by sometime in the late second quarter or early third quarter of this year.
The next question is coming from Dan Oppenheim Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Was wondering if you could talk about the trend in the West.
Looking at the order growth it was a little bit lower.
So what we've seen is a lot of communities where they're temporarily sold out in terms of having lots for the future but sort of metering the pace of sales now.
Can you talk about how much you're doing that in some of these communities and what we should think about in terms of order growth and pricing and such? Jon go ahead.
Sure.
In the West it will be a very community-specific review of that sales pace.
So since there hasn't been much in the way of finished lots being produced by the industry over the last several years there are many communities which we do meter the rate of sales and suppress it below what the market would demand.
So in that case we are seeing more significant price increases.
In some markets where there are finished homesites in front of us we're able to achieve a much higher sales pace.
So for example in Northern California in the Sacramento area where we have a healthy supply of homesites in front of us or the Inland Empire we were able to be achieving a higher absorption level because we're able to pick up our production levels.
And this is Rick.
The other thing I'd add is if you look back over the last several quarters probably going back through the last 2 or 3 4 the West has been a large percentage of our new land acquisition.
So you'll continue to see some growth stemming from those recently acquired deals in the next year or so.
Research Division</strong> And then next the follow-up you talked about the market broadening in terms of the recovery overall.
We've heard some talk about how traffic isn't improving so much but so that it's very high quality in terms of conversion.
Can you comment at all in terms of what you're seeing with the broadening? Are you seeing traffic increasing as well or how is that Rick? This is Rick.
Traffic has been very strong.
Quality of traffic is even stronger.
Year-to-date our traffic is up significantly pretty much across the board and conversion rates are strong.
So we're encouraged with what we're seeing out there.
It gets back to some of the fundamentals that Stuart mentioned in his opening comments with regard to limited supply people being -- understanding the qualification process.
It's a decent market today.
The next question is coming from Adam Rudiger Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Stuart I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the 2015 land purchase -- lands you're buying for 2015 and beyond in terms of what the competition is for those kind of lots relative to newer delivery-type lots what the assumptions you used for those are and kind of what the state of that land is that you're buying or looking at? Well listen I'll let Rick take the bulk of that.
But I think that a lot of the land parcels that we're looking at for 2015 or that we're purchasing for 2015 are really already identified and in our pipeline.
We've been working on those deals.
Either they're in negotiation and -- or under contract.
The assumptions for many of our deals are without a pricing increase model though in some instances we do find that we're injecting some inflation into our underwriting.
So Rick why don't you...
Yes I think pretty much across the board the stuff that we're looking for '15 and '16 for that matter is things that are not yet developed.
They're either raw or need some entitlement work.
So we will work jointly with the landowner today put some seed money into the deal or maybe carry the -- cover the entitlement cost with an opportunity and a lock on the purchase of the land once things happen.
And as a result of that land owners today don't have a lot of capital to invest in the underground -- the underlying property.
So it's a win-win deal for us and for them.
They move the property along and we contract it at a wholesale price.
So when things pass go and we get everything in line the approvals the entitlements the -- everything the way we want it the density we'll close on the land 2 years from now.
So it works well for us.
With regard to the competition in that piece of the pie what we found is that most of the other folks right now are looking for current delivery things.
There are some that have a land-light model and don't want to invest in underground -- underlying property and develop.
So the competition is much more limited.
I think that one of the advantages if I could just add that we're finding there are 2 groups of potential competitors that are kind of hamstrung right now the land developers -- the banks are just not lending on land.
The old acquisition development loan for land deals is not getting back on track right now.
So it really is the well-capitalized public company that has the ability to access the capital to invest in land assets and to drive the entitlement and development process forward.
The other group that's really sidelined are the smaller builders.
The smaller builders have also had that same access to capital issue where coming out of the downturn the banks have just not recast their confidence relative to that group that did not perform particularly well in the downturn and so they're not competitors.
So while the large capitalized -- large well-capitalized homebuilders are out there and competing for some of the same properties our ability to really cast our sole attention to those later land deals enables us to negotiate well and to position ourselves well and focus just on that group of assets.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
The second question Bruce I wanted to ask about gross margins I know you made a pretty intentional -- it sounded like some potential commentary on some other puts and takes but I just wanted to ask the question again anyway.
If I look at the gross margin this quarter relative to say the second quarter of last year when you actually had -- you did greater revenues Homebuilding revenues this quarter which would suggest volume maybe didn't -- wasn't a negative impact for you.
I was just surprised.
I would have thought the gross margins would have been up more given how strong the reduction in incentives there.
So can you just talk about that a little bit more and maybe what I'm missing? Sure.
There is really 2 items that I'd say are different there.
Number one we did have an increased product mix coming from our Central and other regions where the gross margin percentage tends to be lower than the company's average.
And then additionally our field costs tend to be higher in the first quarter.
And what we did is we looked at our states that have colder weather: Minnesota New Jersey Colorado some of the mid-Atlantic and even Pacific Northwest.
And there's a number of costs that are involved when you're looking at those winter states that happen in the first quarter.
And we went back over the last decade or so and it's a typical trend that your first quarter falls off as you go sequentially from Q4 to Q1.
And even if you looked at similar revenues you just tend to have more of those winter costs which Rick you might want to highlight a couple of those.
Yes it's not in all the markets but clearly Minnesota Chicago Maryland Virginia New Jersey Boston and to a lesser degree the Carolinas depending on the market.
They're just incremental direct costs.
Excavation is more important more expensive depending how deep the frost line is and you've got to over-excavate.
You can't use the fill.
You got to bring sand in because you can't compact the cold dirt.
You got to mix the concrete hot with CO2 and with chloride and water -- hot water.
You've got incremental field expenses associated with trenching for the utility lines.
Cost of heating the homes is higher.
There's just a lot of costs associated with building in the winter.
For some markets like Minnesota it could be $10 000 to $12 000 to $13 000 more per home during that time period of the year.
So it happens every year.
Depending on the amount of snow and how cold it is it's worse or better.
The next question is coming from Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to follow up on Adam's question about the land purchases.
You mentioned you're focusing on land purchases for 2015 and beyond.
I wanted to understand in terms of your land buying activity how absolute a statement that is.
In other words does that imply that if you see a finished lot deal or your land guys who are obviously going to be super busy right now they see a finished lot deal come up they don't even bother going through the brain damage of submitting a proposal for it just on the presumption that the pricing is not going to be attractive? Maybe if there's some numbers you could give us the kind of help us understand like 70% of land or lots that you're buying is for 2015 and beyond some of them may be for a nearer term.
Just some color around that please.
This is Rick.
Clearly if we find a finished home site deal that's available at good margins with a developer that we're working with today good relationships we're going to gobble that thing down.
What Stuart and I have been saying is that given the fact that we have in place today a pipeline of land to meet deliveries through 2014 it gives us the flexibility to focus more on the long dated type of things that will come online in the later years.
We've very focused on leveraging our overhead structure investing cash maximizing returns and driving profitability for our shareholders.
So to that extent if we see something that can be added for this year or next year we're going to focus on that.
It just gives us the flexibility to look a little bit longer in the land curve.
Yes.
Just adding to that we have always been driven by opportunity.
And I think that that is what is unique about our company is our ability to hunt I think is better than it's ever been.
It's Eric's birthday.
He's sitting here in the room.
But Eric I've mentioned before has been a bridge between Rialto and Lennar enabling us to find opportunities when we're looking for one thing that really services another part of our company keeping that open mind to opportunities where and when they might exist that might be off the beaten path.
To the extent that we see opportunities to get off-market deals that are not subject to the same competition the same pricing pressures where we can make a company-normalized margin we're all over that.
And those kinds of opportunities are still out there for us and we're still looking for them it's just not our primary everyday focus.
Our primary everyday focus is recognizing that as we go forward we're going to have a -- we're already stable for 2013 and '14 in terms of what we expect to deliver.
And '15 and beyond is where our primary focus is right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And second question I wanted to ask about was spec homes under construction.
I was just wondering if you can give us an update on those numbers.
And in particular what I wanted to understand was we're heading into the -- or I'm sorry we're in the spring selling season obviously with a greater degree of confidence than we've had in years and years.
And so how has that affected your rate of spec build and just generally what you're seeing out there from your other competitors as well? Okay.
In terms of the spec building the number of homes under construction that are unsold are 3 667 this quarter and that's about -- that's 52% of what's under construction during the quarter.
And if you look at total starts for the quarter we had 4 898 and that compares to 2 954 in the first quarter of last year.
And I guess the other stat we look at is number of completed homes that we have across the universe of our communities that are unsold and it's less than 2.
So we think that we have a very fresh inventory today.
We're starting on a very fast clip.
We want to get our inventory moving.
And if you look at it today versus at the end of the year we had about 1 600 or 1 700 more homes than where we ended up at the end of the year.
The next question is coming from Will Randow of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Stuart Rick I wanted to revisit the color you provided on land spend a few times.
I was hoping to get a feel for the breakdown in 3 ways; specifically what is the breakdown between develop spend -- or development spend rather spend on undeveloped dirt and spend on developed lots.
Will I don't have the breakdown right now but we could get it to you later on what was finished versus developed.
So I'll have to get back on you -- back to you on that.
Research Division</strong> I guess could you provide color directionally on how you think -- how you go through that thought process for when you're acquiring today? Is it more on development dollars? There are some markets where there's a pretty active development business.
Those would be in some of the Texas markets where there's developers that are churning land today.
So in those type of markets we're buying finished homesites on a takedown.
I would tell you that across the board we have been acquiring properties that require some development activity.
We've got development skill set in-house and we're leveraging that expertise.
My guess is if I had to pick a number out it's probably 60% 70% development-oriented deals and the balance is either finished or semifinished take them down on a plot and just doing on-site versus the off-site.
Research Division</strong> And then Bruce as a follow-up I may have missed it but did you mention where demand is tracking second quarter to date? And could you provide any color on what gross margin is for that demand? No to answer your question Will we did not give any additional color going into the second quarter on demand and we didn't talk specifically about the gross margin trend going into the second quarter.
But we did reiterate that we're still comfortable that our gross margins for the year will be 23% to 24% for the full year and that the sequential trend will continue where it's lower at the beginning of the year and tends to grow each quarter throughout the year.
The next question is coming from David Goldberg UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Sue for David.
Bruce in your comments you mentioned that you guys have closed out of your design studios in Houston.
And as this recovery is coming together are you finding that your Everything's Included is sort of ramping up with that in that you're having to make fewer sort of one-off or specific changes to what's in the packages? And as part of that given that this recovery is more concentrated among the move-up buyers have you made any fundamental changes to it in order to be more attractive to the buyer that you're seeing out there today? This is Rick.
In Houston we do operate under the brand Village Builders which has a component of a design center but we still are a very much EI-oriented builder.
What we have done on the EI platform is incorporate just to simplify the good better best type of specification level for our homes.
You can't choose the individual items out of the package.
It comes with the package so it's Everything's Included in that package.
That's allowed us to move up through the different stages of what someone wants to spend on the homes.
This is Jon.
I'd also add that our EI platform makes it easier for us to ramp up our production because we know what we're going build we don't have to wait for the customer's order as well as in markets where we're able to benefit from greater appreciation by wading into the construction cycle since we know what's going to go into the home before we sell the home.
So our EI platform is both very efficient as well as it allows us to maximize the margin having our cost locked in when we start the home before we sell it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then along those lines as demand ramps up and as we get further into this cycle are you seeing any changes in your cycle times? And now do you think those will compare as demand improves relative to past cycles? This is Jon again.
We're clearly seeing a small increase in cycle time as there is stress on the labor market as not only we but the whole industry is increasing the production flow that's out there.
It's still below where it was at the peak of the last cycle and we feel like we're much better able to control it with our more focused product strategy and fewer divisions.
So we have more consistency of product.
But clearly as you would naturally expect as the cycle picks up its volume we are seeing a little bit of movement in cycle time.
Okay let's take one last question.
And the last question is coming from Ken Zener KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could give us -- given your joint ventures are getting more active clearly in places like Valencia or El Toro [ph] as they're coming online can you give us one a description of how much income you expect within a range from your JVs this year versus let's say last year? And then taking a step back are you more inclined to be the seller of the land? Or should we think that the buyer of the land is actually getting a better deal however you want to cut a balance? Because I would think the seller of the land would be in a better position than the builder.
If you could just kind of give us a sense how you balance that in terms of the price you set to the other side the buyers? Well first of all we're generally not giving an overall guidance as to what the joint ventures will produce.
Those earnings will come as they come and they will tend to be a little bit lumpy from time to time.
In terms of the pricing of the property the land right now those ventures the FivePoint deal the deals that fall under the FivePoint umbrella are really uniquely positioned in just some of the most desirable markets that are extremely land constrained.
And any time as an owner of land and a developer you find yourself in that position pricing really does come down to what the seller's selling for.
So it really gives us some pricing power and opportunity to drive earnings as the market continues to improve and we just think that FivePoint is very well positioned.
I think Bruce talked earlier about some of the timing relative to some of our positions coming on -- or Jon did.
But that's about as much guidance as we give.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
It seems like as a seller of land you're in the better position.
Maybe Bruce or whoever I think people investors have in their mind given the deflationary environment we faced or are coming out of that in fact specs are lower margin which in the last 4 5 years has been the case.
But it seems to me given pricing moving upwards more often than not can you talk about specs and how you see the spec spread coming in? Because it's seems if you -- especially with an Everything's Included house if you start building in January and fix the price you can actually be in fact making more money on specs as you move through the cycle if in fact the home is worth more in May when you're setting the price as opposed to have locked it in in January.
So can you talk about the impact of spec margins impacting you and if my thesis is correct? Well this is Rick and I'll start out.
And if Jon's got something he can add to it.
We definitely have crossed the line where a spec is not something that's discounted.
We are waiting to lock the price of that as late in the process as we can.
Our inventory is working for us today as opposed to several years back where someone wanted a discount if there was something that was standing tall in a community that was unsold.
So we're letting the appreciation in the market work towards our benefit.
And what we are doing also is on presales we're not discounting those as well.
To the extent someone wants a premium homesite in a community we're loading it with what that homesite premium should be.
And for them to choose a homesite and a community and a particular home we're loading that up at the front-end given the fact that it probably takes us 2 to 3 months to build it.
Jon do you have...
Yes this is Jon.
I would just add to that that as Rick said earlier we manage this weekly in each of our communities what the pace is and pricing.
We're clearly able to drive more to our bottom line margin by having our construction cost locked in with a started home versus a presale situation and benefit from an appreciating market by selling later in the cycle.
So we should see incrementally more margin to specifically answer your question on a spec home versus a presale.
All right.
That concludes our conference call.
We want to thank everybody for joining us.
Look forward to reporting as we go forward and thank you.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to Lennar's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to David Collins for the reading of the forward-looking statement.
Good morning.
Today's conference call may include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to Lennar's future business and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements may include statements regarding Lennar's business financial condition results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar's estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could affect future results and may cause Lennar's actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described in this morning's press release and our SEC filings including those under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar's Annual Report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Okay very good.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us for our second quarter 2013 update.
We're very pleased to share our results to you this morning.
We are here in our Southern California office as we're here to host our Board of Directors meeting and to have our board spend some time with our California management team and to see some of our product out here as well.
In the context of our board meeting let me take this opportunity to welcome our newest board member Teri McClure.
Teri brings a tremendous amount of background and experience to our board as she is General Counsel for UPS and you can read more about Teri's experience and history in the press release that we put out this morning.
Now this morning I'm joined by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; Dave Collins who you've just heard from who's our Controller; and Diane Bessette our Vice President and Treasurer.
Additionally Rick Beckwitt our President; Jon Jaffe our Chief Operating Officer; and Jeff Krasnoff Chief Executive Officer of Rialto are here as well for our Q&amp;A session.
I'd like to begin this morning with some brief overview remarks on the overall state of the housing market recovery in the context of today's volatile market conditions and then briefly overview our operations.
Bruce then is going to as usual provide greater detail on our overall numbers as well as some further comments on our Financial Services segment.
And then as always we'll open up for Q&amp;A.
As we have in the past we request that during Q&amp;A each person limit themselves to one question and just one related follow-up.
So let me begin.
And to begin let me state the obvious.
Interest rates have moved higher and mortgage rates have moved from their unprecedented low point towards more normalized levels.
And while this movement is not a surprise given the improvement in economic conditions and in the housing market in general it seems that the timing has caught the investor community off-guard and has shaken investor confidence in the overall housing recovery.
Our view though is that the housing recovery is still very much intact and that the fundamentals of that recovery remain solid.
The overriding driver of recovery in the housing market remains the underproduction of both single and multifamily product throughout the economic downturn and up to and including this year.
Over the past 5 years of housing production we've built an average of under 700 000 single and multifamily homes total per year with an average obsolescence rate of approximately 300 000 per year.
This compares to a need for new dwelling units per year of between 1.2 million and 1.5 million.
This year a significantly stronger year of building activity we will produce approximately 950 000 single and multifamily dwellings and again will underserve the country's needs.
We have more than absorbed the overbuilding of the early to mid-2000s and have been underproducing for a protracted period of time.
This shortfall will have to be made up and the builders of both multi and single-family products have been pushing to increase production.
The increase in production has been slow and difficult because of 2 factors.
First there's a shortage of entitled and developed land to build on and land prices have been moving higher.
Secondly the increased production has created labor shortages in many major markets.
We hear of the labor shortage not just from the builders in the field but also from the manufacturers and distributors that serve the industry.
While these shortages add to the cost to build in the short term they also fuel the longer-term prospects for housing as employment drives confidence and the wage increases that lure workers off the sofa and back into the field to meet demand also enable more families to afford to purchase or rent.
While production continues to lag the need we are experiencing supply shortages against a growing demand.
While some have argued that increased demand is being driven by low interest rates we believe that it's being driven by a generally improving economy driving household formation and a decoupling of households under one roof.
New families are seeking to find independent shelter.
Where attractive financing is available and obtainable households seek for-sale product.
But in the absence of a for-sale option they seek rentals.
But that just increases demand for rentals and drives up the rental rates making for-sale monthly payments even more attractive.
The bottom line is that there are too few dwellings for a growing population and for normalized household formation.
Inventories are low for both new and existing homes as well as for rentals.
As demand increases there are fewer homes or apartments to purchase or rent and prices are being driven higher as you can see in today's Case-Shiller results and today's new home sales beat.
Distressed homes are being absorbed by the investor community and repurposed as rentals.
In the short term these rentals are helping to fill the void of the short supply of rentals for growing demand.
The relationship between rental rates and for-sale monthly payments has favored homeownership for some time now.
Even with interest rates edging upward to more normalized levels the monthly payment math continues to push families to find a way to purchase in order to lower their monthly payment to increase their disposable income and to stabilize their living expenses without annual repricing.
And interest rates though modestly higher are still at historically low levels.
Customer perception at this point remains that today's low interest rate still presents a unique opportunity to lock in a very low cost of capital and this opportunity might not be available forever.
At current interest rates affordability remains at historically very high levels.
Even with more significant movement in both interest rate and pricing homes remain affordable by all measures and will continue to remain attractive relative to rental options as well.
Finally while demand for homes has been constrained by an overly-restrictive mortgage market which has limited access to homeownership with highly conservative underwriting criteria the landscape is improving as lenders are beginning to reconsider their credit underwriting overlays and open the doors for more -- to more approvals.
While this process has been and continues to be slow to mature we've come a long way since last year at this time and we expect to see further easing of credit standards to normalized levels and further extension of credit to the market.
As we've seen in the past week there have been and still are economic and political uncertainties ahead that will affect and bring questions to the future of housing.
We continue to feel that this housing recovery is fundamentally based and driven by a long-term demographic need for dwelling units.
We believe we're still in the beginning stages of a recovery that will be sustained for several more years.
Now turning to Lennar.
Lennar has been and continues to be very well-positioned for recovery in housing.
This is reflected in our second quarter 2013 results and in our positioning for the future.
In our second quarter new orders were up 27% over last year and our dollar value of backlog is up over 76% to its highest level in 5 years.
Gross margins improved year-over-year to an industry-leading 24.1% a 160-basis-point increase over last year.
And operating margins increased 410 basis points to 13.3% reflecting the powerful operating leverage in our absorption rate growth.
For the full year 2013 we expect our average gross margin to continue to improve throughout the year.
Margins continue to benefit from our aggressive land acquisition strategy as well as higher home prices lower incentives and operating leverage from greater absorption per community of approximately 4 per month now which is a significant improvement over last year and then of course from more sales as well.
During the quarter we continued our aggressive land acquisition program and closed on approximately 8 700 homesites for $450 million and that land had basically been contracted between 1 and 2 years prior to its closing.
Additionally we spent approximately $122 million on bringing land to developed status ready for production.
Combined our land acquisition and land spend is up about 100% year-over-year.
Our average selling price for the second quarter was $282 500 a 13% increase over last year which covered the increases in labor and material costs and increased -- which increased approximately 8% over the prior year.
Our Homebuilding operations have been improving due to a strong operating strategy complemented by an excellent management team and management execution.
Additionally we opened 93 new communities and closed out 83 communities during the quarter to end at 9 -- 492 active communities a 12% year-over-year increase.
Today we are fortunate to have the land in-hand to meet our projected deliveries through 2014 and as a result we're pursuing land opportunities for 2015 and beyond.
This is an enviable position in today's market and is a position that was earned through our very strategic land acquisition program that began back in 2009.
Complementing our Homebuilding operations our Financial Services segment had another strong quarter with operating earnings of $29 million compared to $18 million last year.
Our mortgage company captured some 79% of Lennar homebuyers within the markets in which it operates.
Mortgage operations have also benefited from a robust refinancing market which of course is now starting to subside.
Lennar home mortgages should continue to grow alongside our expanding Homebuilding business as well as serve non-Lennar purchasers in a growing number of markets.
While our Homebuilding and Financial Services divisions are the primary drivers of near-term revenues and earnings our 3 additional operating divisions are all maturing to be excellent longer-term value-creation platforms for the company.
Rialto continues to grow as a blue-chip capital investment management company and commercial real estate capital provider.
While current earnings have slowed as we have shifted from balance sheet investment to a fund investment model the prospects for future consistent earnings continue to improve.
We have now invested or committed almost $1 billion of equity through Fund 1 and we are now harvesting those investments.
Performance for the fund is already well ahead of original projections and we started distributing capital back to investors and have returned almost 1/2 of the original investment.
In addition if we continue on our current performance path we expect we will exceed the return hurdles set for our investors which means that the carried interest to Rialto as the manager of the fund will exceed our expectations and none of that potential value is reflected in our current earnings picture.
Finally in December Fund #2 had its first closing of commitments of approximately $260 million including $100 million from us.
And in the second quarter we closed an additional $260 million to bring the total in Fund 2 to $520 million closed which is about halfway to our total goal.
And we have already started investing that capital as well.
Although the shorter-term earnings have slowed we have morphed to a private equity program and our Rialto program is maturing.
We are very excited about the long-term prospects for value creation from this program.
Lennar multifamily our apartment division has now commenced construction on 5 apartment communities nationwide totaling approximately 1 500 apartments and $225 million in development.
And it's moving forward with a growing pipeline.
We expect that rental will continue to thrive alongside the for-sale market as many will not be able to access the for-sale market and rentals will meet their housing needs.
Even with the step-up in apartment production nationally additional product will be needed to meet the demand to fill the shortfall from prior years.
Finally FivePoint Communities is quickly moving to bring developed land in premium locations to the market to fill the growing demand for well-located approved and developed homesites.
This quarter we saw the first earnings contribution from this division which will continue to contribute as additional land becomes entitled and developed over the next years.
In conclusion while we are aware of the concerns that are being reflected in current market volatility it is our belief that the market remains positioned to continue to recover and that our company is exceptionally well-positioned to benefit.
The housing market is healing and recovery is accelerating as we produce shelter that is needed for a growing population and a return to more normal levels of household formation.
As the housing market continues its overall trajectory back to normal it is providing stimulus to the overall economy through job creation and building long-term consumer wealth which for generations has been the benefit of homeownership.
Lennar's Homebuilding machine is extremely well-positioned and continues to gain market share.
We have excellent land positions in all of our major markets while the land market overall is very constrained and we have an excellent management team that will continue to be our primary driver of current earnings.
Homebuilding of course is supported and enhanced by our Financial Services division which will grow in step with the homebuilder and continue to develop its third-party operations to enhance its bottom line.
Rialto continues to expand its franchise and invest in high-yielding alternative investments while supporting the homebuilder with access to off-market homesites.
Our growing multifamily platform will continue to provide an additional long-term complementary growth opportunity for the company.
And FivePoint with its large long-term California land assets could not be better positioned to reap the benefits of an appreciating land-constrained housing market.
Although there continue to be political and economic headline risks the primary drivers of our business are fundamentally sound.
I am confident of Lennar's position today in the marketplace and rest assured that our future growth is supported by a strong balance sheet with an exceptional group of leaders who will be able to navigate through the challenges and towards the opportunities that lie ahead.
With that let me turn over to Bruce.
Thank you Stuart and good morning.
Our net earnings for the second quarter were $0.61 per diluted share.
If we excluded the reversal of the deferred tax valuation allowance in both years and normalized the tax rate at 39% the EPS comparison per diluted share would be $0.43 for the quarter versus $0.15 in the prior year.
Revenues from home sales increased 58% in the second quarter driven by a 39% increase in deliveries and a 13% year-over-year increase in ASP to $283 000.
The average sales price by region is as follows: East region $263 000 up 14%; Southeast Florida $273 000 up 3%; Central $257 000 up 12%; Houston $253 000 up 10%; West Region $321 000 up 5%; Other $399 000 up 25%.
The gross margins from our new communities purchased after 2008 continued to outperform the company average gross margin during the quarter and they represented approximately 59% of the company's deliveries in Q2.
Sales incentives were $20 200 per home delivered during the quarter or 6.7% of home sales revenue.
The sales incentives improved by 400 basis points or $9 600 per home delivered versus the prior year.
The gross margin percentage for the quarter was highest in the East Southeast Florida and West regions.
Selling general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues from home sales improved 230 basis points to 10.9%.
And this is the incremental operating leverage that we've been discussing primarily as our volume and particularly our absorption per community has been increasing.
Again our absorption per community this quarter was 4 sales per community per month.
That's an increase over last year's 3.5 per community per month and 2.9 in the first quarter of this year.
This was the lowest SG&amp;A percentage as a percent of home sales in the last 7 years.
During the quarter Stuart mentioned the El Toro joint venture sold their first homesites to homebuilders including Lennar.
Our 25% interest in the joint venture resulted in a $13 million profit on our joint venture line.
Lennar purchased 3 of these communities that were sold by the venture and the profit relating to the communities purchased by Lennar are deferred and recognized in our gross margin at the time that Lennar delivers the homes which we expect to start in fiscal 2014.
Turning to Financial Services.
The second quarter improvement was again helped by the strong refinance environment leading to higher volumes and higher profit per transaction.
The mortgage pretax income increased to $26.1 million from $17.2 million in the prior year.
This quarter's mortgage originations increased by 45% to $1.4 billion.
Originations with non-Lennar homebuyers were 51% of the total originations this quarter.
And again that was helped out by the increase in the number of refinance transactions.
Our title company had a good quarter as well.
They had a $3.7 million profit during the quarter compared with $1.4 million in the prior year.
Our Rialto business segment generated operating earnings totaling $2.8 million compared to $4.3 million in the prior year.
Both amounts are net of noncontrolling interest.
The composition of Rialto's $2.8 million of operating earnings by type of investment is as follows: the Rialto real estate funds contributed $4.4 million of earnings; the FDIC and wholly-owned bank portfolios contributed a net of $4.5 million of earnings; and these amounts were reduced by $6.1 million of G&amp;A and other which is net of management fees and reimbursements of $9 million.
The prior year amount included $2.7 million of earnings from PPIP which was successfully completed in the prior year.
At quarter end the FDIC debt net of cash available in the defeasance [ph] account and in Rialto's cash account was down to $48 million.
We expect this debt to be paid off around year end and then there will be more significant cash flow generated back to the parent.
During the quarter we reversed approximately $41 million of the remaining tax asset reserve all of which pertains to state taxes.
This was the remaining reserve we expected to reverse this year and going forward we expect an effective rate of 39%.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Our balance sheet liquidity remained strong in the quarter at $728 million of cash and no outstanding borrowings under our unsecured credit facility.
In June this facility was increased to $950 million and the maturity extended to June of 2017.
During the quarter we issued an additional $50 million to our $525 million of 4.750% notes due 2022.
And in the last 4 quarters we have now issued a total of $1.2 billion of long-term senior notes with an average coupon of 4.6%.
I wanted to summarize what was said on this call and highlight a few items additionally for the remainder of 2013.
Number one we have noted an increase in our cycle time and have generated a high percentage of pre-sales during the spring selling season and as a result we expect our backlog conversion ratio to be between 75% and 80% for the third quarter.
Although the backlog conversion is declining in the third quarter we are well-positioned with our backlog and expect to deliver between 18 250 and 18 500 homes for all of 2013.
As Stuart highlighted our gross margin is increasing throughout the year.
And with the strength of our backlog it gives us confidence to increase our gross margin guidance to approximately 24.25% for Q3 and 24.75% for Q4.
For a couple of quarters we have highlighted that we expect the number of refinanced transactions will slow as we progress through the year and the profit per transaction in our mortgage business is likely to moderate a little bit.
Additionally we are required to book profit on our mortgage originations at the time that we lock the loan.
As a result the profit for Financial Services is higher in the spring selling season and we expect that profit in Financial Services will be sequentially lower both in Q3 and Q4.
As highlighted on the call Rialto is in a transitional year and we expect Rialto's profitability to continue to be backloaded to the fourth quarter of 2013.
With that let me open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ivy Zelman of Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> It's actually Alan on for Ivy.
The first question I had just relates to kind of your stock performance year-to-date which has underperformed despite obviously the very strong performance in your Homebuilding business.
And we've heard from some clients just general concerns or questions about your expansion into some of the other ancillary businesses such as apartments and obviously the Rialto business which the profitability has declined here a little bit.
I was hoping you might be able to just put the rising rates -- put some perspective behind that on the impact on those ancillary pieces of your business and obviously in Rialto specifically given the high-yield investments there if you would expect to see any impact on future profitability from higher rates? Wow.
That's a lot of questions in one Alan.
But let me see if I can attack that.
First of all as it relates to stock performance as a management team we're highly focused on operational performance in the company and the investor community is going to have to interpret things as they might.
We of course have pretty much gotten out ahead of the rest of the market in terms of land acquisition and -- okay so let me just continue.
So we've gotten out ahead in terms of land acquisition and margin enhancement and we've had pretty strong margin growth early on in the recovery cycle.
So we've enjoyed I think a pretty good program relative to our position within the industry and our stock price as well.
Perhaps that subsides it [ph] a little bit.
I'm not really sure and of course interest rates have kind of altered the landscape for the entire industry at least over the short term.
As it relates to our fundamental business we've said consistently our primary driver is and continues to be our Homebuilding operation.
We are extremely well-positioned from a land standpoint.
We're well-positioned in terms of margin generation and our management team really is hitting on all cylinders.
With that said our ancillary businesses are really well-positioned for future growth and for future contribution.
Frankly I have not been more excited than I am today about the prospects for Rialto and as well the prospects for our multifamily even given the increase in interest rate that we've seen and the changing environment.
Rialto has morphed from an on-balance sheet to a private equity model.
In doing so you're seeing fewer earnings flow through to the bottom line right now.
That will change over time as our press starts to be brought into earnings in the future.
But as it relates to our Fund 1 performance it has been nothing short of exceptional and Fund 2 monies are already starting to be invested.
We are providing capital for commercial real estate financings and other positions within capital stack [ph].
We think that this is business is going to continue to grow and is going to be a very exciting part of our story going forward.
As far as the rental apartment properties division is concerned we have a growing pipeline growing from $1.5 billion to $2 billion in properties that are going to be coming online.
As I noted in my opening comments we have 5 properties under construction.
And I think in the context of a market that is short on dwelling units overall people are going to be looking to purchase because the monthly payment is lower if you're able to purchase.
But if not there's a growing demand for rentals and we think that rental rates are going to continue to be pushed up higher.
So even with interest rates going up we feel pretty comfortable about the rental community development as well.
I guess the only thing I'd add too is all the time we've been expensing startup costs associated with these businesses and our pretax income has doubled on a year-over-year basis and our margins are up on a year-over-year basis.
So I think we've been a good steward of the capital.
LLC</strong> Okay Rick I appreciate that and sorry I jumped on late.
You guys couldn't hear me I was muted.
But I think that Stuart as the most senior tenured leader of the industry I think people would really appreciate maybe a little bit more specifics on your view of the backup in rates.
I know you said that -- you commented that we have a lot of room to go.
But what rate starts to get you nervous? And I recognize you can't really think about rates in isolation so can you give us your more elaborate sort of expectations on what really starts to make a difference from the consumers' affordability? Well Ivy the first thing that I'd say is that rates have been at historically low levels.
They're reverting and maybe they're actually starting a movement or maybe it will ebb and flow a little bit.
But they're going to ultimately revert to more normalized levels.
Now but you can't look at the interest rate in isolation.
We have to be looking at interest rate in the context in which they're moving which means an improving economy an improving employment picture.
We are seeing labor shortages across the country not just for the homebuilders and people in the field but for manufacturers and distributors.
We're hearing from all of those people that not only are there labor shortages but wages are moving up in order to get people off the sofa and back into the field.
And this portends good things for demand for housing both on the for-sale and the rental side.
Interest rates that are moving higher in the context of economic improvement employment improvement at the same time really reflects a healthy economy and a healthy movement.
And for housing in general has historically meant that housing is going to thrive as more people are able to afford to buy or to rent and to match-up with the supply that is available.
And of course right now we're looking at a supply shortage so that means that even in the context of rising rates and a better economy we're likely to see price increases and rental increases as well.
Our next question is from Jade Rahmani of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask on Homebuilding SG&amp;A.
I think last quarter you provided some sequential comparisons and expectations for the rest of the year.
I think given the step function down this quarter would you be comfortable providing any expectations for the rest of this year on that line item? Sure Jade.
This is Bruce.
I think as you look at the next quarter I would expect a similar type of SG&amp;A percentage as we had this quarter and a little bit more leverage as we go into the fourth quarter as we expect to have more deliveries in Q4.
So we'll see what that percentage is.
But figure flat next quarter and a little bit of improvement going into Q4.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Regarding Rialto is there a way we can think about the value of the carried interest benefit that you could receive? And have your -- are your comments meant to suggest that this could be a 4Q event? Or would that be next year? I think I'd be looking to next year and we haven't given guidance on the magnitude of the carried interest.
But we are becoming more enthusiastic about our prospects in all of our fund investing.
And I think that we'll have to ask for you to be patient until we have better clarity to bring to the market.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And finally the pick up or the -- reportedly Rialto has begun conduit operations or is in talks regarding that I think you alluded to that in your commentary.
Should we expect all of those lending programs to flow through the private equity funds rather than through the wholly-owned subsidiary earnings? A lot of the capital activities will be wholly-owned.
So it will be -- some of that will be split between the private equity and the on-balance sheet.
But the operations that are kind of the natural evolution of that business the conduit activities the origination side is generally on-balance sheet.
The purchase of securities and special servicing is going to flow more through the private equity so it's kind of split.
Our next question is from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions for you.
One I guess the question we're getting a lot from investors relates to the impact of rising interest rates on your business and obviously you've done a good job here of addressing the fact that you really haven't seen that yet.
Implicitly it would seem that if you have not -- if you're not anticipating seeing let's say a 100 basis-point rise that we've almost absorbed affecting demand implicitly what you're saying is that the buyers who have been buying over the last year have not been maximizing their purchase -- purchasing power and therefore are able to absorb somewhat higher rates and still make a decision to buy essentially the same unit and the same price that they would have bought let's say 6 months ago or prior to the higher rates.
My observation is that that's probably true because the lending standards are much more difficult right now and so if you can actually get a mortgage you're probably a solid-enough citizen with a solid-enough balance sheet that you're probably being relatively prudent.
But I'd love to hear your particular view on whether or not your buyer over the last 6 months has been able to buy more than they have been buying and therefore can tolerate a higher rate environment? It's Rick.
As we were coming out of the downturn and people were trying to get a sense of footing of where the economy was going I think they didn't put everything they could into the home.
They left a little bit on the table.
They wanted to feel and see the economy improving.
And we've seen over the last 12 months incremental changes in the type of spec level that we've been putting in our homes given the fact that people have a little bit more appetite and purchasing power today than they had a year ago.
But the other thing that sometimes gets skewed as you look at it from a lofty level is that it's a different mix of buyers every day out there.
And while we try to draw some comparisons on a trend line it's real difficult to do because you have different groups of people different products at any point in time that are for sale.
But generally speaking you're correct.
There is increased purchasing power today notwithstanding the fact that people had that muscle before.
Let me just add to that and say that there are a lot of different stories out there.
I think in part there has been a more conservative approach to using all of the buying power as Rick just described.
But additionally this decoupling that is going on people having been 2 generations under one roof during the downturn and unwinding that has really enabled the generation that's moving out and finding its own new shelter to save money to reposition their credit and to be positioned to be able to purchase.
That new entrant into the marketplace or reentrant into the marketplace as the case may be is positioned to be able to make a lot of choices because they've saved some money and they've gotten their credit history in good position to be able to afford something.
And the important thing right now Steve is the relationship between monthly payments in for-sale relative to monthly payments for rent is really a driver and very compelling for people to find a way to afford as much as possible on the for-sale side.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's very helpful.
My second question relates to your land spend activity.
I think you did a good job of talking about the fact that you have a very strong land pipeline and you've done a lot of things when times were bad so that you don't really have to force anything now that times are getting better.
I wanted to ask you though if you could help us understand what you would likely do differently in the near term if over the course of the next few months God forbid you did see something happening out in the field that was markedly worse if the environment got markedly worse and you saw that in your selling communities what would be the likely response in terms of your land spend activity? And I'm really trying to frame sort of how much of your land spend that you've been doing and that you're expecting to do here over the remainder of the year is for communities that you don't really need in other words like 2015 2016 versus stuff that you actually kind of need to open in various markets in the next year or 2? Well Steve It's Rick.
As we've shared with you before and Steve -- and Stuart highlighted on the call earlier we've been way ahead here.
I can tell you that while we're continuing to look for opportunities where we can feather in some things for the balance of 2013 if they fall in our lap or early 2014 mid-2014 the lion's share of what we're looking for is 2015 and 2016.
So with that said a dramatic shift in the land environment for us would possibly be a good thing because it would create some turmoil out there in the market.
From a general perspective as we're looking at those type of opportunities given the long runway that has to happen through entitlement or processing and zoning and those type of things the values for those assets are still incredibly wholesale opportunities.
So we probably wouldn't approach it in a different way we might be a little bit more cautious.
But given that's where we're looking it wouldn't dramatically change what we're doing.
Research Division</strong> Are you buying those or are you optioning those kinds of properties out to 2015 and '16? More often than not what we're doing is we're working with the owner of the land putting it under contract giving them a small amount of earnest money and helping them with the entitlement process by using our intellectual capital and expertise with the cities as currency.
Our next question is from Stephen East of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I don't know if this is for Stuart or Rick.
But if you look at your markets when you think about higher rates and lower affordability what would be the top 2 or 3 markets that you think are most susceptible to having problems with the higher rates? And which markets do you think would be in the best shape? I think Stephen pretty much across-the-board affordability right now is at a place where the markets are going to -- look we all recognize that there isn't a national housing market and each market is local and unique unto itself.
But I think that affordability is in such a comfortable place right now that when you ask about market susceptibility to interest rate movement if you're in a range of moderate increases in interest rates as we have seen I think that all markets pretty much across-the-board are going to continue to be reasonably strong.
So I wouldn't differentiate the markets unless you saw some kind of violent move in interest rates which I'm just not projecting at this point.
Steve it's Rick.
I think it's more of a price-point issue as opposed to a market issue.
I think when you get down into that sub-120 price point if there is interest rate moves or confidence issues then that business starts to get a little bit more difficult.
Similarly although most people would say that at the high-end of the market those buyers don't necessarily need a mortgage they're sophisticated buyers and they're getting one.
And a movement in interest rate tends to after time affect the very high end.
Given the fact that we're a first-time move-up middle-market and some of our things are sort of second-time move-up we think that we're pretty well insulated to a large degree from interest rate movements in the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful to me.
And then if you look at El Toro you had some nice community sales this quarter.
As we look out over the next -- the rest of this year and '14 can you talk about -- give us some timelines so we can understand how we sort of forecast these businesses unwinding not only El Toro but some of your other parcels that you have in California? Yes Stephen it's Jon.
El Toro should see its next delivery homesites in 2014 about a year out from this first group that was just delivered.
It would be a similar size perhaps a little bit larger.
What we just closed recently was about 725 homesites and you should see an offering about once a year coming out of El Toro.
In San Francisco we just broke ground this month at Hunters Point with product -- that product is being built within the venture and you should see actual home deliveries from that in about 14 to 18 months.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And just one last question you talked about 59% of your delivery sort of from your new communities.
Can you remind us what the differential was on gross margin? And whether you're still seeing that consistency new versus old legacy land? Sure Steve it's Bruce.
We're still seeing approximately 200-basis-point increase in gross margins from the new communities we've purchased since 2008.
Now the legacy communities are still doing well from a gross margin perspective but the new communities are about 200 bps higher.
Our next question is from David Goldberg of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow-up actually on Stephen East's question and Rick's response which I thought was a really interesting and good response on the buyer segment and price point and how rates affect different buyer segments.
And I'm going to ask a question I don't know if it's answerable but I'll give it my best shot which is when you think about that sub-120 price point how important is that to the overall recovery of the housing market long-term when we think about past peaks and we think about getting margins -- excuse me volumes back to starts or new home sales back to where we were? And how important was that for Lennar in the last cycle? And kind of how important do you envision it as you go through this cycle? Well as far as how important it is for the industry I think it's a function of 2 things.
One is what employment growth is going to be to a large degree people buying that -- and whether it's sub-120 I used that as a number it could be sub-110 that's probably a better number.
There's people that buy.
I think it has more of an impact on the resale market than on the new home market because people will be not able to buy some of that product because there is less of a new construction market in that sub-120 110 market.
We're not really in that market except for a couple of divisions that offer some product like that.
Bruce you want -- or Stuart talk about how this affected Lennar in the past cycles? This is Jon.
As Rick said our -- primarily what we're delivering is in the middle market.
So as you're dealing with those people who are just trying to enter the market for the first time that really didn't have a big impact on our business.
And as you look at markets like California which tend to do very well on the upswing the big price movements you're not in that price point anyway even in the Central Valley.
You're starting in the mid-2s to $300 000 price points.
And David one other thing I'd say is this may be a different set of cards this time.
And the reason I'd say that is there was such deferred purchasing.
You're seeing an older group of first-time buyers coming into the market that may have double income associated with that.
So I'm not sure you can truly draw parallels to what happened in the past although I'm sure that someone can.
I just want to say David I think you might have gotten it right in the beginning when you said this question might not be answerable.
I think at the end of the day this is a new environment.
We're going to have to wait and see how it unfolds in terms of -- every part of the market kind of interacts with other parts of the market.
The move-up buyer historically has been selling a home to a first-time buyer in order to move up.
Right now the move-up buyer is coming out of mom and dad's home or a coupled environment.
So we have a new evolution this time around.
I think that one of the other defining components of this particular market recovery is the fact that we are dealing with a housing shortage overall both on the rental side and on the single-family side.
And so some that might be move-ups have to look at rentals but rental rate is high so instead they go for something that's smaller in nature and more affordable.
It's going to be interesting to see how it evolves and I don't think there's a clear answer.
Research Division</strong> Just one other quick question.
Stuart you mentioned in the prepared comments that you're seeing some easing on the credit standards side.
Maybe you can talk about is that additional liquidity more players some of the more traditional big correspondent lenders coming back to the market? Is it actually showing up in standards? Or is it just additional liquidity that you're seeing coming back? I was watching CNBC as the CEO of LendingTree was talking yesterday and I watched him struggle with some of the same questions.
It's hard to put your finger on exactly where the loosening is taking place.
I don't know if the customer is coming to the table better prepared with more down payment and more documentation or if it's the lenders that are really opening the doors a little bit.
But it's at the margins and it's hard to identify exactly where the loosening is taking place but it is.
More people are getting approved more people are finding their way to mortgage approval and I think it's a trend that we're going to continue to see.
Appraisals are clearly loosening up as part of the process as well.
So I think the important thing to do is to look backwards a year or 1.5 years.
And if you look backwards you see we've come quite a long way in terms of people finding access to the mortgage markets.
I think as we look to next week and next month it's hard to see where those incremental moves are going to come from.
But I think a year from now we're going to continue to see loosening and reversion to normal underwriting standards as markets the financial markets governmental markets become more and more comfortable with an improving and recovering housing market overall.
I think the overlays are just going to dissipate very -- at the margins.
One other thing I'd add to that David is one area that we are seeing some improvement is with the mortgage insurers.
So there's a greater percentage of mortgage insurers coming back in and that's allowing somebody that previously was going for a 20% down with a conventional mortgage you're now seeing the ability to have lower down payments and we see that that's likely to increase even further as we go forward.
Our next question is from Desi DiPierro of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the labor and material side you said it was up 8% in the quarter.
In recent months have you seen in a slowdown in the rate of increase or even a decline in material prices given lower lumber and OSB prices? This is Jon.
For example lumber has just come down recently but the way that the pricing works is that will affect our starts in this quarter and our deliveries into the fourth quarter and first quarter.
So you'll see a trend up until those deliveries hit.
Other products have been relatively flat.
Of course some commodities are down like copper.
So on one side you have pressure from labor that's pushing cost up.
And then on the materials side things tend to be plus or minus flat with the exception of lumber as I just mentioned which came down for panels about 25% and dimensional lumber about 15%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just looking at Financial Services I know you said that operating income would be lower sequentially due to the seasonality.
And so I also wanted to see if you in addition to lower volumes are you seeing a change in the spread on the mortgages that you're originating when you go to sell them as well given the results [ph] ? Sure.
Spreads have been at high levels compared to historical norms.
So we're expecting that that will be the case as we go into the second half of this year.
We haven't seen a lot of that yet but the expectation should be that that will be moderate as we go through the rest of 2013.
That is all the time we have for today.
I would now like to turn the call back to Mr.
Stuart for closing remarks.
Okay.
Well listen thanks everyone for joining us.
As you can see we're pretty enthusiastic about our positioning as it relates to the future and we feel pretty strongly that the housing recovery is intact and likely to continue for some time to come.
Thanks for joining us and we'll report back at the end of next quarter.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may disconnect your phones at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to Lennar's third quarter earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
David Collins for the reading of the forward-looking statement.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Today's conference call may include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to Lennar's future business and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements may include statements regarding Lennar's business financial condition results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar's estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could affect future results and may cause Lennar's actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described in this morning's press release and our SEC filings including those under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar's annual report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Great.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us for our third quarter 2013 update.
We're very pleased to share our results with you this morning.
This morning I'm joined by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; David Collins who you've just heard from who is our Controller; and Diane Bessette our Vice President and Treasurer.
Additionally Rick Beckwitt our President; and Jeff Krasnoff Chief Executive Officer of Rialto are here with us for our Q&amp;A session.
And Jon Jaffe our Chief Operating Officer is available for Q&amp;A from California by phone.
I'd like to begin this morning with some brief overview comments on the overall state of the housing recovery in the context of today's ever-changing market conditions and then briefly overview our operations.
Bruce then is going to as usual provide greater detail on our overall numbers as well as some further comments on our Financial Services segment.
And then as always we'll open up for Q&amp;A.
As in the past we'd like to request that during Q&amp;A each person limits themselves to one question and just one related follow-up.
So let me begin.
In preparation for today's call I reviewed my comments from last quarter's conference call to consider those comments and see how my thoughts might have changed.
When we reported last quarter our results were very solid though the interest rate environment had begun to change and talk of the pending taper of federal stimulus had just recently begun.
We believed then as we do now that generally speaking the housing market remains in a solid recovery mode and is likely to continue to improve over an extended period of time.
While the rate of that improvement is likely to moderate as the market has now snapped back from the abnormally severe downturn that we experienced we nevertheless believe it will continue to improve.
Clearly interest rates have moved higher and mortgage rates have moved from their unprecedented low point towards more normalized levels.
Accordingly over the past couple of months we've experienced a slowdown in our sales pace and traffic in our communities as the consumer has adjusted to the change in the interest rate environment.
But it is our belief that this change is mild and temporary given the extremely low levels of housing inventory in the market.
In our view the primary driver of our business strategy is that the housing recovery is still very much intact and that the fundamentals of that recovery remain solid.
The overriding driver of recovery in the housing market remains the production deficit of both single family and multi-family product throughout the economic downturn and up to and including this year.
This year even with significantly stronger building activity we will produce approximately 900 000 to 950 000 single and multi-family dwellings and again will underserve the country's needs by a wide margin.
We have more than absorbed the overbuilding of the early- to mid-2000s and have been underproducing for a protracted period of time.
This shortfall will have to be made up and the builders of both multi- and single family products have been pushing to increase production as inventories of rentals existing homes and new homes have remained extremely low and pricing for all of these products have been moving up.
And inventories are likely to remain low as production increases are constrained by a shortage of entitled and developed land to build on.
Interest rates though somewhat higher are still at historically very acceptable levels.
Consumer perception at this point remains that today's low interest rate still presents a unique opportunity to lock in a very low cost of capital and this opportunity might not be available forever.
Even with more significant movement in both interest rates and pricing homes remain affordable by all measures and will continue to remain attractive relative to rental options as well.
Finally while demand for homes has been constrained by an overly restrictive mortgage market which has limited access to home ownership with highly conservative underwriting criteria the landscape continues to improve as lenders are beginning to reconsider their credit underwriting overlays and open the doors for more approvals.
While this process has been and continues to be slow to mature we've come a long way since last year at this time and we expect to see further easing of credit standards to normalized levels and further extension of credit to the markets.
As we've seen over the past quarter there have been and still are economic and political uncertainties ahead that will affect and bring questions to the future of housing.
The pending debt ceiling debate the future of the taper discussion and the international swirl around Syria and the Middle East will all produce bumps in the housing recovery road.
We continue to feel however that this housing recovery is fundamentally based and driven by a long-term demographic need for dwelling units.
We believe we're still in the beginning stages of a recovery that will be sustained for several more years.
And strategically this is how we are positioning Lennar for the upcoming years.
Now turning to Lennar specifically we feel that our company is really hitting on all cylinders.
Lennar has been and continues to be very well positioned for current market conditions and recovery in housing.
This is reflective in our third quarter 2013 results and in our positioning for the future.
In our third quarter new orders were up 14% over last year while our new order dollar value of $1.5 billion was up 32% over the prior year.
Our dollar value of backlog is up 53%.
Gross margins improved year-over-year to an industry-leading 24.9% a 170-basis-point increase over last year.
And operating margins increased 350 basis points to 14.7% reflecting the powerful operating leverage in our platform.
For the fourth quarter 2013 we expect that our gross margins will remain consistent with current levels.
Margins continue to benefit from our aggressive land acquisition strategy as well as higher home prices and operating leverage.
While recent sales have seen a mild increase in the use of incentives on selected inventory margins are remaining steady.
During the quarter we continued our aggressive land acquisition strategy and closed on approximately 11 600 homesites for approximately $610 million.
And that land has basically been contracted for between 1 and 2 years prior to its closing.
Additionally we spent $160 million on bringing land to developed status and ready for production.
Our average selling price for the third quarter was $291 000 a 13% increase over last year which covered the increases in labor and material costs which increased approximately 8.4% over the prior year to around $45 per square foot.
Lumber costs have been -- have recently come down but this has been offset by increases in labor.
The most labor-constrained categories are framing drywall plumbing and concrete.
We expect that costs for fourth quarter closings will be slightly higher than our third quarter.
But our average selling price of homes in the third quarter was up 16% and those price increases will continue to cover the increase in costs.
Our Homebuilding operations continue to improve due to the strong operating strategy strong land position complemented by an excellent management team and management execution.
Additionally we opened 77 new communities and closed out 57 communities during the quarter to end up with -- to end up at 514 active communities a 16% year-over-year increase.
Today we are fortunate to have land in hand to meet our projected deliveries through 2014 and much of 2015 as well.
And as a result we're pursuing land opportunities for 2015 and beyond.
Complementing our Homebuilding operations our Financial Services segment had another strong quarter with operating earnings of $23.5 million down slightly from the $25.3 million last year.
Our mortgage company captured some 70% -- 77% of Lennar home buyers within the markets in which we operate.
The mortgage operations have benefited from a robust refinancing market in past quarters that -- and that part of the business is now starting to subside.
Lennar home mortgages continues to grow however alongside our expanding Homebuilding business as well as serve a number of non-Lennar purchasers in a growing number of markets making up some of the shortfall from the slowing of the refi business.
While our Homebuilding and Financial Services divisions are primary drivers of near-term revenues and earnings our 3 additional operating segments are all maturing to be excellent longer-term value creation platforms for the company.
Rialto continues to grow as a blue chip capital investment management company and commercial real estate capital provider.
While current earnings have slowed as we have shifted from the balance sheet investment model to a fund investment model the prospects for future consistent earnings continue to improve.
In Fund 1 we invested approximately $1 billion of equity in 60 separate transactions and actual performance continues to well exceed our original projections.
So in addition to being able to recycle and invest an additional $300 million of capital with only 2 -- within only 2 quarters subsequent to becoming fully invested we have already been able to distribute $365 million to our investors or over 50% of their initial capital contributed.
In addition if we continue on our current path the carried interest to Rialto as manager of the fund will exceed our expectations and none of that potential is yet reflected in our current earnings picture.
While Fund 1 is now fully invested our opportunistic program has continued uninterrupted through our second real estate fund which has already closed private equity commitments of almost $650 million compared to the $260 million reported at the end of the second quarter.
And this is well on its way towards our goal of raising approximately $1 billion by year end.
Fund 2 has already invested over $230 million in 17 separate transactions.
And following on the theme of high-return-on-capital businesses earlier this year we brought on board one of the industry's most experienced commercial real estate origination groups led by Brett Ersoff and John Herman.
Our initial objective for Rialto Mortgage Finance has been to originate and securitize long-term fixed rate loans on stabilized cash-flowing institutional-grade commercial real estate properties.
And this program is now well on its way to profitability.
Although the shorter-term earnings have slowed we have morphed into a private equity and high-return-on-capital program and our Rialto program is maturing on plan.
We are very excited about the long-term prospects for value creation from this platform.
As with Rialto we're really pleased with the progress of our multi-family rental business.
This business began operations in early 2011 and is positioned to become one of the leading developers of new Class A apartments in the United States.
We have assembled a seasoned team of professionals that is leveraging every aspect of our company.
In the third quarter we commenced construction on 2 new apartment communities and now have seen -- and now have 7 active projects totaling 2 100 apartments with an estimated development cost of approximately $326 million.
Including these active communities today we have a geographically diversified development pipeline that exceeds $2.5 billion and over 11 000 apartments.
As we've discussed in the past we're building these apartments with third-party institutional capital and each deal has been conservatively financed with non-recourse debt.
In addition we have underwritten our investments using today's rents and unlevered yield on costs that are 125 to 200 basis points over the prevailing cap rate.
With our conservative financing and underwriting we're positioned to earn IRRs exceeding 25% and cash multiples greater than 2x.
We anticipate that the construction of our development pipeline will be completed over the next 3 to 4 years.
As a merchant builder of apartments we plan to sell our apartments once rents and occupancies have stabilized.
Given our construction timeline we should begin to see returns on invested capital by the middle of 2014 with a more meaningful contribution from the multi-family segment in fiscal 2015.
Finally our FivePoint Communities program continues to mature as a long-term strategy as well and is quickly moving to bring developed land in premium California locations to the market to fill the growing demand for well-located approved and developed homesites.
In the second quarter we saw the first earnings contribution from this division which will continue to contribute as additional land becomes entitled and developed over the next years.
Again we believe that FivePoint Communities will create excellent long-term shareholder value.
In conclusion let me say that while we are aware of the concerns that are being reflected in current market volatility our company's strategies continues to be driven by our belief that the market remains positioned to continue to recover and that our company remains well positioned to benefit.
The housing market is healing and recovering and we -- as we produce shelter that is needed for a growing population and return to more normal levels of household formation.
Lennar's Homebuilding operation is extremely well positioned and continues to gain market share.
We have excellent land positions in all of our major markets while the overall market is still very constrained and we have continued to fortify that position.
Our Homebuilding operations will continue to be the company's primary driver of current earnings.
Homebuilding of course is supported and enhanced by our Financial Services division which will grow in step with the homebuilder and continue to develop its third-party operations to enhance the bottom line.
Our ancillary businesses of Rialto Lennar multi-family communities and FivePoint continue to mature and expand their franchises and will continue to provide longer-term opportunities to enhance shareholder value in the longer term.
Although there continues to be political and economic headline risks the primary drivers of our business are fundamentally sound.
I'm confident of Lennar's position in the marketplace today as our strong balance sheet and exceptional group of leaders will continue to be able to navigate through the challenges of today's market landscape and towards opportunities ahead.
With that let me turn over to Bruce.
Thanks Stuart and good morning.
Our net earnings for the third quarter were $0.54 per diluted share and I'm going to review the financial highlights starting with Homebuilding.
Our results reflected strong top line growth as our revenues from home sales increased 55% in the third quarter driven by a 37% increase in deliveries and a 13% year-over-year increase in average sales price to $291 000.
That sale price by region is as follows: the East region was $261 000 up 7%; Southeast Florida region was $299 000 up 8%; Central region $261 000 up 16%; Houston was $272 000 up 15%; the West region was $361 000 up 21%; and other region was $394 000 up 10%.
The 24.9% gross margin that was up 170 basis points over the prior year was driven primarily by new communities purchased after 2008 which continued to outperform the company's average gross margin and they represented in this quarter 61% of the company's deliveries.
Sales incentives were $18 700 per home in the third quarter or 6% as a percent of home sale revenue.
The sales incentives improved by 330 basis points or $7 400 per home delivered versus the prior year.
The gross margin percentage for the quarter was the highest in the East Southeast Florida and West regions.
SG&amp;A percent as a percent of revenues from home sales improved 180 basis points to 10.2% and we are realizing significant operating leverage as our Homebuilding volumes increased.
That resulted in a 350-basis-point improvement in our operating margin.
Additionally we have seen significant operating leverage in our corporate G&amp;A line as our corporate G&amp;A improved 60 basis points to 2.3% as a percent of revenue during the quarter.
During the quarter equity in the earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures was $10.3 million versus a loss of $6 million in the prior year.
This is primarily a result of income related to the sale of homesites at our El Toro joint venture to third-party builders.
Turning to Financial Services.
As Stuart mentioned our earnings were $23.5 million in the quarter versus $25.3 million in the prior year.
Our mortgage pretax income decreased during the quarter to $18.8 million from $22.3 million in the prior year.
As I have been highlighting for a few quarters we have been expecting the number of refinanced transactions to decline and the profit per transaction to moderate and we did see that in our results this quarter.
Our Eagle Mortgage retail channel experienced a reduction in refinance volume from 49% of the total originations being refinance-oriented versus now 26% in the current quarter.
Our Universal American Mortgage Company subsidiary provides mortgages to our home buyer customers and therefore almost all of these are purchase transactions.
In total our mortgage operations are now 88% purchase transactions and 12% refinance transactions.
This quarter's mortgage originations increased by 7% to $1.4 billion as we have been effective in growing our purchase transactions to offset the reductions in refinances.
However there has been margin compression in the market as a result of more competition targeting the purchase business.
Our Title Company had a $5.2 million profit in the third quarter and this compares with a $3.6 million profit in the prior year.
And this is on a 7% increase in revenues.
Turning to Rialto.
We generated $1.5 million of profits compared to $7.7 million in the prior year.
Both amounts are net of noncontrolling interest.
The composition of those profits by type of investment is as follows: the Rialto Real Estate Funds contributed $5.2 million of earnings; the FDIC and wholly-owned bank portfolios contributed a net of $2 million of earnings and these amounts were reduced by $5.7 million of G&amp;A and other which is net of management fees and reimbursements of $9.3 million.
One thing to note the prior year amount included $15.4 million of earnings from the PPIP program which was successfully completed in 2012.
The FDIC originally provided $627 million of seller financing which had to be repaid before we could make distributions back to the company.
As of today we now have enough cash in Rialto to fully retire the remaining debt balance which will allow us to make additional distributions in the coming quarters to the partners.
Additionally it positions Rialto with an underlevered balance sheet.
Turning to our balance sheet our balance sheet liquidity remained strong in the third quarter with $434 million of cash and $100 million outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facility.
During the quarter that credit facility was increased to $950 million and its maturity was extended to June of 2017.
Our stockholders' equity increased to $3.7 billion during the quarter and our book value per share increased to $19.10.
Our homesites owned and controlled now total 147 000 homesites.
119 000 are owned and 28 000 are controlled.
Our completed unsold inventory remains low averaging about 1 home per community.
I wanted to summarize what's been said on this call and highlight a few additional items for the remainder of 2013.
First we remain comfortable with our backlog and we continue to expect to deliver between 18 250 and 18 500 homes for all of 2013.
This will result in a backlog conversion ratio exceeding 90% for the fourth quarter.
Second the strength of our backlog has given us confidence for our gross margin guidance to be maintained around the third quarter actual gross margin level of 24.9%.
Third Lennar Financial Services' earnings are expected to decrease sequentially from the third quarter as we book our mortgage profits based on loan locks and this is due to the normal seasonality that occurs in our fourth quarter.
And then last our effective tax rate for the third quarter was approximately 36% as we were favorably benefited by several tax credits which were applicable to the third quarter.
And as we look at the fourth quarter we now expect our fourth quarter effective tax rate to be approximately 38%.
And with that let me turn it back to the operator and open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is coming from Bob Wetenhall RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask -- it was a strong quarter in terms of gross margin performance and incremental operating leverage.
Could you help give us a sense of where you see gross margins going in the next 2 or 3 years if volumes continue to recover? So Bob looking forward as we think about gross margins there are several opportunities still for gross margins to grow.
We think we have the opportunity for margins to exceed our past peak which was around the 26% to 27% range if everything goes according to plan.
And that's based on the following: it's based on average sales prices continuing to grow as there's still room and affordability; sales incentives still have room to go down from the current 6% level over time to what's more normal at 3%; we have more of our new communities that would come online that have a higher gross margin than the company average.
Currently 61% of our deliveries as I mentioned were coming from new communities so that should be helpful as well.
And then as absorption increases and gets back to normalized levels we have the ability to amortize fixed costs over more deliveries.
So if everything happens according to plan there is room for upward mobility in the margins over time.
We think the next quarter however will probably be somewhere close to the level that you saw in the third quarter that we just reported.
Hey Bob this is Rick.
Just one other thing I'd point out is as we have typically discussed in the past we're more focused on our operating margin than by -- than the gross margin.
We're very focused on leveraging the overhead the infrastructure of the company.
We will within any quarter adjust pricing and pace to maximize the underlying value of the assets.
So gross margins will move up and down but the real thing you should focus on is the operating margin line.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's really informative.
I appreciate the granular detail.
If -- on a follow-up Stuart had said that interest rates are probably having an impact on order growth but he characterized the impact as been temporary and mild and touched on the production deficit.
If rates stay in the current context for 30-year fixed how do you think the recovery looks from here on out during the next 12 months? Bob it's our view that the recovery -- it just continues forward.
I think that the first move in both sales pace and pricing has been stronger than people anticipated in large part because it's a reversion as opposed to just a straight-line recovery.
When I say reversion we had a very very unusual downturn.
It was much more severe than we've seen historically and I think there's been somewhat of a snap back.
The fact that the rate of growth in sales and sales price will and should moderate does not derail the recovery.
We think that the recovery will be more orderly and slower in nature.
But we think that over the next 3 to 5 years we're likely to be in a steady recovery mode.
The next question is coming from Stephen East ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Stuart you talked about what you were seeing with demand a little bit if you could talk a little bit more just what you all were seeing as you went through the quarter and post-quarter for demand and pricing? And then as you go through this a bit slower time what's your strategy? Or how has your strategy changed a little bit to navigate through this period? Yes.
Let me turn that over to Rick and then to Jon.
They have a real close -- they're in close touch with the people in the field and you'll get a better answer from them.
Rick? As we look at the quarter Steve I would tell you that July was the slowest month for us and we saw August actually being the strongest month on both a nominal and year-over-year basis.
That was pretty much consistent with both number of sales and dollar pricing power.
There was a little bit of sticker shock associated with the rate increase so dramatically a little pause on the market and we saw buyers starting to come back to the market.
And as Stuart said in his opening comments and his talk about the economy we see just strong viable fundamental demand out there.
But it's cooled a little bit.
As a result of that we have -- from a pricing standpoint we've selected some of our inventory select inventory and have increased some incentives associated with that inventory.
But blended across the overall pool it's got a relatively modest impact on pricing and net sales price.
It varies dramatically by market.
The A communities are performing extremely well and -- but we're really focused on discounting.
If there was discounting on stuff that was ready to close and we -- it was just the best way for us to focus on a return on investment.
Jon any further comments? As we manage through what is apparently more of a normal season as Bruce highlighted we're focused on our unsold inventory which is about one home per community.
And we'll manage the levers of price and pace to make sure those homes are delivered they're sold and they close and that will create some fluctuations from community to community.
But as I look at our backlog and look at the end of third quarter sequentially compared to the second quarter I feel very comfortable that we are managing our average sales price in a level or upward trend and the same with our gross margin.
So I think we managed through this somewhat bumpier time because our inventory is under control -- we're not under pressure to incentivize any greater than the market needs to keep that pace.
And just a final thought on that Steve.
I think this is at the top of the mind of the market right now.
What we're hearing from customers in the field clearly there's a little bit of sticker shock relative to interest rates moving.
At the same time the prices have been moving up.
We saw across the country in the Case-Shiller report this morning that prices are up in a healthy way.
And so as interest rates have moved people have had to confront the fact that the price that they were looking at a few weeks ago might be different than the price -- or the monthly payment might be different than today.
But by and large they still have to measure their decision on where they're going to live against rental rates.
And they still have to -- and they still have the opportunity to look at reasonably low interest rates that are going to hold them in good stead for years to come.
The attitude of the consumer in the field still seems to be positively oriented towards finding a way to purchase and making it through the mortgage maze right now and finding their way into homeownership.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's really helpful.
And then if we look you can grow 1 of 2 ways.
You can buy the lots and the land or you can buy the company.
There are -- both are pretty fluid right now on the M&amp;A side.
We're seeing some small deals but then we also have the 2 big ones that are sitting out there and the land environment itself looks like it's getting a bit more rational.
Can you talk about those 2 and how you all view your appetite for potential M&amp;A? And then what's actually going on in the land market? Yes.
As has been the case with our company for a very long time there is nothing that we don't look at and consider.
We look at M&amp;A the same way that we look at organic growth.
It's all about competing capital and we measure the returns on capital that we can generate from a company acquisition against comparably deployed capital in a well constructed organic program.
And wherever the best returns for our company are going to lie that's where we act.
So there is nothing off the table as it relates to Lennar.
We are focused on and have reviewed every M&amp;A transaction that's out there and we are looking at just about every organic opportunity to purchase new land positions.
It's all about returns on the invested capital.
Research Division</strong> Has the land market changed? Yes Steve this is Rick.
The land market has been going through a state of evolution as we've discussed in the past because there are more ready-to-go finished homesites out there that have been priced up.
That's not to say that you can invest in communities that produce a good return and a decent gross margin.
But clearly not the margins that we've seen in current deliveries.
And as a result of that as Stuart mentioned most of our land acquisition activity or contracting activity -- and I want to really focus on that -- things that we've been putting under contract are things that we'll probably be closing on in 2015 2016 2017.
We benefit from the fact that we were early in aggressive and you can see that reflected in the gross margins.
The next question is coming from Ivy Zelman Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Two questions and one question really pertains to incentives.
Recognizing I think the way you described it Stuart is that you're using it selectively where necessary to move inventory.
Maybe Rick you were the one that said it 1 per community.
One of the concerns we have is that unlike any other cycle we've actually seen pricing spikes at the front end of the cycle and volumes usually are the ones to increase and follow that pricing.
So now that we've weaned the consumer with the spike in pricing off of incentives after 6 tough years of negotiations aren't you opening up the door for a slippery slope of undermining consumers' confidence in the value of the homes they're buying? And not just you I'm talking about the industry because there a lot of private builders that want to take their working capital out of the ground and we're hearing more of them talk about using selling incentives.
Although still moderate today how do you control it? And in prior cycles have you seen the use of selling incentives after periods where home prices had gone up and then see it resume? Hey Ivy it's Rick.
In any market good bad modest we have used incentives.
The industry has used incentives whether it's closing costs landscape packages additional spiffs in the home.
It's just part of the normal course of business.
Those percentages of incentives change depending on the state of the inventory the development status in the community and it's just part of the normal course of business in the industry and in our company.
What we identified is that we are -- we have started to use a little bit more.
And by a little bit we're talking maybe 1 point 1.5 points on selected inventory out there in order to get some activity.
And it may be 3 or 4 homes in that community but not necessarily anything beyond that.
It's a price leader.
It gets activity out to the job.
Let me just back up for 1 second and you talked about the spike in pricing as opposed to pace and the like.
But let's now remember that a large part of this recovery has been defined by very very limited inventory both in existing homes and in new homes and frankly in apartments.
And so it's not surprising to see the recovery reflected more in pricing than in pace because you simply can't get the pace where inventories are low and land is very constrained.
And that's what we're seeing out in the field.
And then additionally you look at the smaller builder component of the overall industry the smaller builders have not been able to come back in the sizable way that they have in prior recoveries.
So as I articulated before I think that price -- the initial movement in price is somewhat of a spike and a reversion to where pricing might have been in a normalized downturn.
We'll see more moderate reflection in price as we go forward.
And as the market goes through minor gyrations and corrections on the way to a broader recovery we think that we'll have to use incentives on a select basis.
But the limitation of inventory is going to be definitional to where the market goes and how we price going forward.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That was very helpful.
One more question.
A big bad bear view out there that I'd like you to dispel if possible is that today the housing starts normalizing given the deficit shelter out there with respect to single-family production predominantly if you can drill in on that.
Given where your average home price is and many of the builders focused on more of a move up more affluent buyer.
With today's student loan debt and the young adults that historically have been a first-time home buyer many believe this demand just isn't there with credit constraints and debt burdens that today's first-time entry market won't be there to support a resumption or a normalized level of new construction predominantly on single family.
Can you comment please Stuart on that? Yes.
Look I think over the past just few weeks you've started to see some of the banks in the context of a declining refi market -- you've seen some of the banks start to talk about the adjustment of some of their overlays as it relates to mortgage approvals.
I think that everyone from the banking world to the political world is acutely aware of some of the impediments to the first-time homebuyer market finding its way back into this housing recovery.
And I think that solid work and thinking is being brought to bear in the market.
It doesn't mean we're seeing broad swings of first-time homebuyers being able to find mortgage approval.
But I think as we look ahead we're likely to see that open up open up first at the margins and then revert to normal levels of underwriting standards which should enable first-time buyers to get back into the market and open up the market in general.
LLC</strong> Will you provide the lots for that entry-level buyer with respect to recognizing whereas today your average home prices are? Strategically do you feel that that's a market that you'll expand as the market fluctuates or the credit loosens? How should we think about the industry's penetration of that market? Is it fluid? Well I think -- look we have a diversified offering a diversified program and have over decades now.
We have a sizable first-time buyer component.
We'll continue to focus on that part of the market as opportunity opens up.
And we'll remain focused on gross margins as well.
I guess the question is does that mean that as you average in first-time buyers does average sales price start to decline somewhat as a matter of averaging and I guess we'll have to wait and see how big a component it is.
But remember we are bottom-line return-on-capital-focused.
And so where opportunity presents itself we'll be focusing on our operating margin first and foremost.
The next question is coming from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So there's been a lot of talk on incentives.
I think you guys obviously did a good job better than we were fearing actually in the quarter on incentives actually coming down.
But I guess in general you've talked about stepping up the incentive activity a little bit here.
Can you give us a sense for what the response has been so far on the part of buyers to this very selective increasing of incentives on standing inventory? Let me have Jon and then Rick take that.
I think you can see by the fact that we have very little standing inventory that we have used those selective incentives very carefully and very effectively.
And they are a lever that each of our divisions exercises community by community home by home to make sure we're accomplishing that goal.
But I think we feel very comfortable that we're -- we have the right amount to move the inventory that we want to make sure we move.
So as we get to month end and quarter end we're in a very similar position that we're in now.
Yes.
Steve as you look at the operation of the business the incentives for the consumer haven't really moved the needle per se.
It's really a way for us to generate activity from the brokerage community and it's a traffic generator.
When people come out to the communities they still find sentimental value.
And whether there is an additional 1% 0.5% 2% it's not what is impacting the investment decision.
Just let me add as a third thought here.
In the context of sticker shock everybody wants a deal everybody wants to feel that they've lost a little bit and they're getting a little bit back.
So it's just an ignition point right now to just keep the market kind of attentive in the context of a time when pricing moved on people.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
That's very helpful.
Another question that I had -- I guess a second question sort of a broader question about your opportunities that you see currently in the land market and for your company generally.
You've talked about the fact that you're stepping up and you've been very active on the land purchasing side.
We can see that in the numbers that you've provided much higher levels than relative to your burn rate if you will than is -- would be considered sustainable and that I would say almost double what would be considered sustainable.
So clearly there's a cyclical component to what you're pursuing.
But you've also talked about shortages in the land market more broadly.
That struck me as being also somewhat cyclical and therefore somewhat temporary.
And I'm curious as to whether you can comment on how much longer you think the land market is going to be in its current severely constrained state so that it would justify your accelerated level of land purchases.
We're talking 2 years 3 years? Do you think this is somewhat systemic? If you could just give us some sense of that that would be great.
Okay.
You're clearly noting that we've remained an aggressive purchaser of land.
As we've noted this started a number of years ago.
We were early to the land purchasing program and we've maintained that early position -- the properties that we're closing on in large dollar amounts today the properties that we've contracted for at a much earlier stage.
We remain focused on the land side of the business.
The land market is constrained and we would rather be buying early rather than late.
We have a 3- to 5-year time horizon on this recovery.
We've articulated that and that defines and informs a good portion of our strategy.
To your question about how long will the land market remain constrained of course I can't answer that definitively but it's been -- our view has been formed by the fact that like the smaller homebuilders the land developer business has had difficulty gaining access to capital except through opportunity-type funds where the cost of capital is rather steep.
And so this acts as its own constraint to the expansion of the supply of land inventory in the marketplace.
So at least for the foreseeable future until capital markets find a way and with non-opportunistic capital to open up to land developers we think that land continues to remain constrained and therefore constrain inventories overall.
Let me just add one more thought to Stuart's comment is that compared to the last cycle the environmental in an entitlement situation the conditions are much stricter than they were last cycle.
So that's going to add to the capital situation land developers face and I think continue to have a slightly more constrained land environment as we move forward.
And Steve I guess the final point is strategically assuming that there is a new level of development -- third-party development activity coming on stream 2 years 3 years out it really plays strategically with how we've invested our capital because we have the ability to supplement our core purchases with incremental immediate delivery opportunities as the market unfolds and starts to continue to grow.
And we think that it's consistent with what our overall strategy has been from the get-go.
The next question is coming from Jade Rahmani KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one on your average sales price.
Given the average order price do you expect the average sales price on deliveries in the fourth quarter to be in the $300 000 range? Yes.
Jade if you look at our backlog average sales price it always runs a little bit higher than what we actually deliver because the larger homes sit in backlog a little bit longer.
So we would expect there to be a slight increase in the average sales price going into the fourth quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on Rialto.
I think you mentioned the balance sheet is underlevered with the FDIC debt having been fully defeased.
Can you talk about options to add leverage? And on Rialto Mortgage Finance when do you think that the CMBS loan conduit originations would commence in full and start contributing to earnings? Yes.
Well look I think that we have created a terrific optionality in our subsidiary operations.
And clearly that's one point of access to capital that we have in our arsenal.
Rialto is really well situated today having defeased the FDIC debt with a very strong balance sheet.
It's positioned as a stand-alone enterprise that is separately reported.
We have all of the levers available to us.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Available for the addition of leverage? Leveraged equity -- we've really maintained maximum flexibility in terms of -- by segmenting the business.
And as we've grown the business in an unlevered way we've just afforded ourselves maximum flexibility to go in a number of different directions.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the loan conduit do you think that is something that would contribute to earnings in 2014? As I noted in my remarks we have brought on an exceptional team in that space.
It is -- they've been working hard getting positioned.
While we haven't projected profitability we think that we're well positioned for profitability in 2014.
The next question is coming from Michael Rehaut at JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> First question I had was on sales pace.
So far this year you've been doing plus or minus 3 to 4 a month on average.
And as far as my understanding generally builders will typically look for depending on the market et cetera 4 per month is a pretty good yardstick maybe sometimes a little more depending on the ASP and the density.
Is there something that you're comfortable with at this stage in the cycle? And as we get more towards let's say the middle part of the cycle would you see that sales pace change at all materially? Well listen absorption rates are a cyclical phenomenon.
I think that if you look at our absorption rate for this quarter it was somewhere around 3.2%.
If you look at last quarter the spring selling season we were closer to 4%.
And sales pace moves around a little bit as you go through the seasonality of the year.
So I think we're comfortable with where our sales pace has been and we feel that again the market continues to be pretty solid.
The other thing I'd like to add to that Michael is as we purchase communities and underwrite communities with various absorption paces depending on the type of asset that we're buying and they range from sort of higher end more affluent type of opportunities where maybe we're looking at an absorption pace of 1.5% to 2% because the operating margins on those closings are so significant and it justifies the investment of capital.
Then there are some communities that we're projecting 4 5 6 7 because it's more of a volume-oriented opportunity.
And what skews some of the pace that you see quarter-to-quarter is the mix of deliveries that we're closing from the communities that we have across the country.
Research Division</strong> No I understand and I appreciate that.
It's kind of why I gave a range of 3 to 4 and understanding seasonality.
I guess I was just thinking more from the perspective that there are other builders let's say that have kind of put sales pace out there and said "Hey you know relative to the early 2000s late 1990s overall we're still 25% 30% even off of our what we consider a normalized sales pace with all those factors considered." I was just wondering if that's a statement that applies to you or that again given the mix and everything else that the sales pace that you're currently seeing is something that you would expect either more in the middle of the cycle or maybe that's just not the case for you that you're more or less hitting what you were hoping to hit as the communities are coming through? Well I can tell you that we're exceeding underwriting with regards to pace for the most part.
That on a historical basis absorptions have been higher at various points of cycles and we run the business to maximize the operating margin in the individual communities.
I would just add that we manage our pace also to match our construction pace.
And again we've mentioned a few times about our low level of spec homes.
We really don't want to sell at a faster pace than we're constructing homes.
And that of course is somewhat controlled by our community count and the land supply that we've spoken about.
Research Division</strong> No I appreciate.
That's helpful.
I guess second question just on equity earnings in Rialto the $10 million of profit in the equity earnings line I guess from some additional sales of homesites from El Toro when you reported the profit from El Toro last quarter I believe then you said that you would be releasing the next phase somewhere over the -- in mid '14.
Just thinking about that going forward is that something that the $10 million or this additional flow of lot sales is that something that we should expect to be a little bit more regular? And also -- I'm sorry to kind of bring in another question.
But on Rialto now that you've defeased the debt should we expect a different flow of earnings from the -- now that the distributions might come in a little bit more on a regular basis? Let me answer the first question Mike.
With respect to the joint venture profit we didn't sell additional homesites than the 726.
There was some profit relating to the 726 homesites that were booked in this quarter.
We still believe that the next group of homesites at El Toro are about call it sometime in 2014.
So we didn't elect to sell additional homesites at this point.
And then relative to additional earnings in Rialto because the debt's defeased there's nothing there.
So that doesn't pair up well relative to the debt being defeased.
So as far as earnings go going forward there'd be no change.
The next question is coming from Eli Hackel Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
First Stuart you mentioned a little bit more on banks loosening up.
Can you just give a little bit more color? It sounded like in the last couple of weeks you noticed a change have you seen anything related to just them saying well QRM is here refi revenue is down wanting to make that up? And then just on the incentives I know you talked about it a little bit but is there any region or price point that was more prevalent in? Bruce why don't you go ahead? I think as it relates to the banks the banks have made their own announcements.
Yes.
I'm sorry.
Could you just repeat that first part Eli? Research Division</strong> Sure.
Just in the beginning of some prepared remarks and some questions just from banks maybe potentially loosening up a little bit more.
You said you noticed some signs of that.
I just was hoping for a little bit more color there and then sort of how fast could that -- maybe it speeds up but the refi revenue is down 50% or 60%.
I just wanted your thoughts there.
Yes sure.
So what we did here with some of the major banks is that FICO scores have been announced that they've been reduced into the low 600 range.
And then additionally in several states the down payment requirement has come down to as low as 5% and that is something that we believe is being implemented over the next month.
So you're starting to see some benefit there.
And in addition to that you're also seeing that there's more mortgage insurance that's being used.
In this quarter over 1/3 of our conventional buyers had down payments less than 20%.
And down payment is the biggest issue for our buyers typically.
So we think that's very helpful for what's already changed and what's coming down the pike over the next month or so from the banks.
So as refinance volume as you mentioned continues to trail off that's a big component of bank earnings as we all know and you're seeing the layoffs out there.
And so the tendency would be we would expect for a continuing easing with some of the overlays that they've had in place.
So we look at that as real positive going forward.
But I think you've actually seen JPMorgan and Wells make announcements that their underwriting standards are starting to moderate especially as that refi business has bled off.
Right.
Research Division</strong> And then just on incentives just if they were concentrated in a region or price point? The incentives have been pretty widespread -- I mean across the country and have been in select communities where they might have been needed as a re-spark.
The next question is coming from Ken Zener KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So your guys' delivery can come through more communities or greater sales pace.
If the sales pace is going to follow vagaries of the market and it seems where it is seasonal versus cyclical right now.
Can you -- with all your land in hand can you give us -- or comment on '14's expected community count -- growth rate right now? We haven't laid that out at this point Ken.
That's -- we're intending to give an update into 2014 on our next conference call which we're expecting to be about the 3rd week of December.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second point.
With your closing guidance suggesting mid-90% backlog turn it obviously indicates quite a bit of pre-built homes already in inventory.
So does that -- 2 questions here does that approach -- is that more common in less land-constrained areas or are you actually using that kind of pre-built but not sold on the price as the way to kind of leverage price gains kind of call options for your margins.
What's in that is there -- it's an obvious margin spread between your pre-sold homes as opposed to ones you started building and then sold them? Well on the inventory side I think we've consistently said over time that we have a spec program where we try to maintain 1 to 2 per community across the country in every community.
We have some that are starting construction some of which is presold some of which is a speculative unsold home.
And what we do is on each community -- at each community we measure pace and price to figure out what our start program would be.
And we haven't really adjusted that program in the market over the last several quarters pretty consistent with what we've been doing.
Right.
And with that why don't we make this -- the next one the last question? And our last question is coming from Susan Maklari of UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the cancellation rate.
Can you give us a little more detail into what caused the sequential increase that we saw? And then are you comfortable with the current level? Or how should we think about the potential trends in that going forward? Well our cancellation rate has really been pretty modest.
If you look historically cancellation rates are generally around 20% and maybe even trending a little bit higher.
We've always articulated and felt that not having that kind of level of cancellation rate means that our sales folks just aren't pushing or working hard enough.
You're going to have a certain number of buyers that for one reason or another don't go forward.
So our cancellation rate at least by historical norms is still relatively low.
We're in the 18% range right now.
So I wouldn't ascribe too much importance to that cancellation rate for the fluctuations around that range.
Bruce would you add to that? No no I agree.
I think you said it well.
We've always said that normalized cancellation rate is around 20%.
And when there was a buildup of inventory and we needed to monetize inventory in the downturn it got up to much higher levels.
But we would like to see the can rate be at a healthy level closer to that 20% range give or take a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Perfect.
And then just one last question.
You spoke to the fact that you're still able to offset the input cost increases that you're seeing with the home price appreciation that you're getting.
If we get to a point where the home price depreciation falls somewhat from what we're seeing can you talk about maybe potentially some of the things you can do to help offset those input prices and continue to maintain somewhat the margins that you're seeing now? Okay.
So as input prices are changing again we've been offsetting them with our price increases and with sales incentives coming down.
And keeping in mind that our direct costs are 40% to 45% of the sales price so they would have to go up twice as fast as any net benefit between the sales price improvement or the sales incentives coming down.
So that's the main item that we see offsetting these costs as we go forward.
But additionally we are primarily focused on our operating margin.
And as our volumes continue to improve and as our efficiency continues to improve we think that the net bottom line is also improving even as sales price starts to slow a little bit.
All right.
So we'll end it there.
We would like to thank everybody for joining us for our third quarter update and look forward to reporting the fourth quarter.
As Bruce said earlier it will be the 3rd week of December and we look forward to telling you more about the progress of the market and our company.
Thank you.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to Lennar's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now turn the call over to Mr.
David Collins for the reading of the forward-looking statement.
Good morning everyone.
Today's conference call may include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to Lennar's future business and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements may include statements regarding Lennar's business financial condition results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar's estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could affect future results and may cause Lennar's actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described in this morning's press release and our SEC filings including those under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar's annual report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us for our fourth quarter and year end 2013 update.
We're very pleased to share our results with you this morning.
This morning I'm joined by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; David Collins who you've just heard from who's our Controller; and Diane Bessette our Vice President and Treasurer.
Additionally Rick Beckwitt our President; and Jeff Krasnoff Chief Executive Officer of Rialto are here as well for our question-and-answer session.
And Jon Jaffe our Chief Operating Officer is with us by telephone from California.
I'd like to begin this morning with some brief overview remarks on the overall state of the housing market and then briefly overview our operations.
Bruce as usual will provide further detail on our overall numbers and some further comments on our Financial Services segment.
And then we'll open up to question-and-answer.
[Operator Instructions] So let me begin.
Over the past months we've seen a pause in the rate of improvement in the recovery of the housing market as both volume and price appreciation have moderated in response to political turmoil and interest rate increases.
We noted in our third quarter conference call that we were beginning to see signs of this moderation but we believed then and we continue to believe now that the housing market remains on track for a solid recovery and is likely to continue to improve over an extended period of time.
We continue to believe that the overriding driver of recovery in the housing market remains the production deficit of both single- and multi-family dwellings throughout the economic downturn and up to and including this year.
This shortfall will have to be made up and the builders of both multi- and single-family products will need to increase production as inventories have remained extremely low and pent-up demand comes on to the market.
And even as the market responds inventories are likely to remain constrained as production increases are limited by a shortage of entitled and developed land to build on in desirable locations.
While we recognize the potential headwinds from recent moves to lower loan limits and raised guarantee fees on government-sponsored mortgages and the continued pressure on interest rates we feel that the short supply of available homes and pent-up demand along with a generally improving economy will continue to drive the housing recovery forward.
And we're anticipating a robust spring selling season which historically begins just after the Super Bowl.
Our view and the primary driver of our business strategy is that the housing recovery is still very much intact and that the fundamentals of that recovery remain solid.
Currently we are seeing in the field traffic patterns that indicate that buyers are coming to the market and finding short supplies.
While this time of the year is our seasonal slow -- seasonally slow time of year for actually closing sales we are continuing to see healthy interest in the field which indicates that the 2014 selling season will prove to be very healthy for those who are well positioned with well-located assets and product.
Against that backdrop Lennar has finished up 2013 with a very solid fourth quarter and full year results that speak both to the solid management and execution of our articulated strategies and to the positioning of our company for performance in the future.
Each of our businesses showed strong results for 2013 and we are well positioned for the future.
As a company we took advantage of the market cycle and accordingly we feel we have excellent asset positions to drive future growth.
Homebuilding of course remains our primary driver of quarterly performance.
For the fourth quarter revenues grew to $1.9 billion up 42% over last year as we continued to focus on maximizing our pricing power.
Our sales pace in the fourth quarter averaged 2.9 sales per community per month which was flat or just short of last year at 3 per month.
Our average sales price advanced to $307 000 which was a year-over-year increase of $46 000 or 18% and a 5.5% sequential increase from the third quarter.
This improvement in sales prices covered increases in labor and material and the cost -- and land costs as reflected in our gross margin.
The fourth quarter gross margin improved year-over-year to an industry-leading 26.8% a 330-basis-point improvement reflecting the strength of our well-positioned communities.
With SG&amp;A of 9.9% a 140-basis-point year-over-year improvement we continue to improve our operating leverage.
An example of this focus is in our advertising spend where for the full year we increased new orders 21% over 2012 but we spent less in nominal dollars than we did in 2012.
This operating leverage produced a 16.9% net operating margin for the quarter which was a 490-basis-point improvement and close to peak quarterly operating margins.
In our fourth quarter new orders were up 13% over last year while our new order dollar value of $1.4 billion was up 34% over the prior year and our dollar value of backlog is up over 40%.
We opened 77 new communities and closed out 54 communities during the quarter to end at 3 -- 537 active communities a 17% year-over-year increase.
As expected our backlog conversion ratio was 95% for the fourth quarter and we expect Q1 to be between 80% and 85%.
Our fourth quarter performance highlights strong management execution but also indicates how well we are positioned for future performance.
During the fourth quarter we continued our carefully crafted land acquisition program and purchased approximately 11 000 homesites for $365 million while we spent $197 million on land development.
Combined our land acquisition and land development spend was up about 76% over the prior year period.
As in prior quarters money was invested geographically in the markets where we saw the best opportunities.
In addition we signed contracts to acquire approximately 3 000 homesites.
As we look ahead to 2014 and beyond we feel fortunate to have the land in hand to meet our projected deliveries through 2014 and well into 2015 and this positions us well to maintain gross margins that are consistent with our reported full year 2013 25% growth.
While recent sales have seen mild increases in the use of incentives on selected inventory we expect that margins will continue to remain steady.
Over the past quarters we've augmented our land strategy with the addition of shorter-turn quicker -- shorter-term quicker-turn purchases with high IRRs in order to continue to leverage our existing operating platform in 2014 and 2015.
These are excellent deals for the company even if they are at lower gross margins because we can increase our operating margin given that we already have the divisional fixed overhead covered for the next 2 years.
At November 30 2013 we owned and controlled approximately 154 000 homesites.
And as I mentioned before we had 537 active communities.
In 2014 we expect to be able to increase community count by approximately 15% year-over-year.
Overall our homebuilding operations have improved and will continue to improve due to a strong operating strategy complemented by an excellent management team and management execution.
Complementing our homebuilding operations our Financial Services segment had a very respectable quarter with operating earnings of $17 million though down from the $33.2 million last year when the refinancing business was booming.
Our mortgage company captured some 75% of Lennar homebuyers within the markets in which we operate.
While mortgage and title operations have benefited from a robust refinancing market in past quarters that part of the business has now all but evaporated.
Lennar home mortgage and title continue to grow however alongside our expanding Homebuilding business as well as to serve a growing number of non-Lennar purchasers in a growing number of markets across the country.
While our Homebuilding and Financial Services divisions are the primary drivers of near-term revenues and earnings our 3 additional operating divisions are all continuing to mature as excellent longer-term value creation platforms for the company.
Rialto has continued to grow as a blue chip capital investment management company and commercial real estate capital provider.
While past quarter earnings slowed as we have shifted from a balance sheet investment company to a fund investment model the current quarter results for Rialto demonstrate prospects for future consistent earnings.
Almost 2/3 of the almost $14 million pretax contribution from Rialto this quarter is a direct result of our new mortgage loan origination business.
As we mentioned last quarter earlier this year we brought on board one of the industry's most experienced commercial real estate loan origination teams.
The initial objective for Rialto Mortgage Finance has been to originate and securitize long-term fixed rate loans on stabilized cash-flowing institutional-grade commercial real estate properties.
By quarter end we had successfully originated approximately $700 million of mortgage loans and completed 4 securitizations generating over $23 million of gross profit.
This business has also been a perfect fit with our existing Rialto franchise which already has been the market leader in CMBS B-piece investing and special servicing.
In addition now that the business is ramping up we expect it will begin to generate more predictable and -- a more predictable and recurring component of earnings for Rialto and also begin generating excellent opportunities for our other investment vehicles and for us.
The rest of this quarter's contribution is from our previously existing real estate investment business.
Our first real estate fund in which we invested approximately $1 billion of private equity including $75 million from us continues to perform well above expectations.
With next week's distribution our investors will already have received back $420 million representing 60% of their original equity commitments in less than a year since we closed our final investment in the fund.
Our second real estate fund is also well on its way finishing out its $1.3 billion equity raise this week.
We far exceeded our $950 million fundraising goal and Fund 2 has already invested or committed to invest approximately $600 million in 40 transactions.
We are also continuing to raise our first mezzanine fund that is focused on investments in real estate loans that fall below -- just below the Fund 2 return threshold.
We've already raised and invested a little less than 1/3 of our targeted $300 million of equity.
In addition we are now managing a $200 million separate account for a major insurance company.
At this point in time while we currently are paid fees and are reimbursed certain costs by our investors from these vehicles our financial statements do not reflect any carried interest as we don't recognize this component of income until it becomes due and payable.
Looking forward we continue to see compelling opportunities in our core areas of expertise including the continued clearing of distressed and sub-performing assets from financial institutions providing the vital capital and management to reposition and refinance real estate assets as the markets continue to expand and the growth of commercial real estate finance where we've been a market leader in new B-piece investing and special servicing and now new loan origination and securitization.
As with Rialto we are pleased with the progress of our multi-family apartment business.
This business began operations in early 2011 and is positioned to be one of the leading developers of new Class A apartments in the United States.
We've assembled a seasoned team of professionals across the country that is leveraging every aspect of our company.
In the fourth quarter we commenced construction on 5 new apartment communities and now have 11 active communities and 1 completed community totaling approximately 3 250 apartments with an estimated development cost of some $590 million.
In addition to these communities we have a geographically diversified development pipeline that exceeds $3 billion and represents over 12 500 additional rental apartments.
As we've discussed in the past we're building these apartments with third-party institutional capital and each deal has been conservatively financed with nonrecourse debt.
In addition we've underwritten our investment using today's rents and unlevered yield on cost that are 125 to 200 basis points over prevailing cap rates.
With our conservative financing and underwriting we're positioned to earn IRRs exceeding 25% and cash multiples greater than 2x.
We anticipate that the construction of our development pipeline will be completed over the next 4 years.
And as a merchant builder of apartments we plan to sell our apartments once rents and occupancies have stabilized.
We should begin to see returns on invested capital by the middle of 2014 with a more meaningful contribution from our Multifamily segment in fiscal 2015.
Finally our FivePoint Communities continues to mature as a long-term strategy as well and is quickly moving to bring developed land in premium California locations to market to fill the growing demand for well-located approved and developed homesites.
In our second quarter we saw our first earnings contribution from this division.
We believe that FivePoint will create excellent long-term shareholder value for the company.
In conclusion let me say that while we are aware of the concerns that are being reflected in current market volatility our company strategy continues to be driven by our belief that the market remains positioned to continue to recover and that our company is very well positioned to benefit.
The housing market is healing and we believe that the recovery is driven by shortage of available inventory by pent-up demand and limited land available for building.
While political and interest rate headwinds have tended to slow the recovery for the short term our traffic patterns indicate to us that a generally improving economy will drive improved household formation and increased demand as we enter the 2014 selling season.
Lennar's homebuilding operation and asset base is extremely well positioned for the year ahead.
We have excellent land positions in all of our major markets while the overall land market is very constrained and we have continued to fortify that position.
Our Homebuilding and Financial Services operations will continue to be the company's primary driver of current earnings.
Our ancillary businesses of Rialto Lennar Multifamily communities and FivePoint continue to mature and expand their franchises and will provide excellent longer-term opportunities to enhance shareholder value.
We are very pleased with our progress and performance in 2013 and look forward to a very successful year ahead.
Thank you and let me turn over to Bruce.
Thanks Stuart and good morning.
I'll add some color to the numbers that were in the press release today starting with Homebuilding.
Our results reflected strong top line growth as our revenues from home sales increased 50% in the fourth quarter driven by a 27% increase in deliveries and an 18% increase year-over-year in average sales price to $307 000.
Let me give you some more details of that average sales price by region: the East region was $274 000 up 12%; Southeast Florida was up 13% to $299 000; Central region $270 000 that was up 17%; Houston $277 000 up 15%; the West region was up 31% to $407 000; and Other was $382 000 up 9%.
The gross margin on home sales that Stuart talked about up 330 basis points to 26.8% was driven by a couple of things.
Primarily sales incentives were $20 600 per home in the quarter and that was an improvement of 270 basis points.
It came down from 9% in the prior year to 6.3% in the current quarter.
The gross margin percent improved in every one of our regions during the quarter and was highest in the East Southeast Florida and West regions.
Our new communities purchased since 2009 continued their margin outperformance and represented approximately 2/3 of the company's deliveries in the fourth quarter.
The strong gross margin performance was partially offset by a 12% increase in labor and material cost to just under $47 per square foot.
Sequentially this is about a 3% increase from the third quarter.
Labor costs were up a little bit more than material costs during the quarter.
And we did benefit from the lower lumber cost earlier in the year that started to benefit our closings in the current quarter.
We do expect that there will be continued cost pressure in 2014 as the supply chain works to catch up to increased production levels.
In addition to the significant operating margin leverage that Stuart commented on we have additionally recognized operating leverage in our corporate G&amp;A line as our corporate G&amp;A improved 60 basis points to 2.3% of total revenues and that compared to 2.9% in the prior year.
The other income net line totaled $13.3 million of profit during the quarter and this was due to the sale of a rental operating property.
This transaction resulted in a net loss of $3.2 million after including the reduction to the noncontrolling interest line of $17.6 million because this was a consolidating joint venture.
This is not part of our new Multifamily operating segment.
This building was repurposed from condo to rental use during the housing downturn and the sale positively impacted the balance sheet by generating $53 million of cash and retiring $88 million of consolidated debt during the quarter.
Turning to Financial Services.
This segment generated operating earnings of $17 million versus $33.2 million in the prior year.
Our mortgage pretax income decreased to $14.3 million from $30.9 million in the prior year.
Mortgage originations declined approximately 9% from the prior year to $1.3 billion.
As I have been highlighting for several quarters we have been expecting the number of refinanced transactions to decline and the profit per transaction to moderate and we did see that in our results this quarter.
Refinanced loan origination volume declined about 80% from the prior year's quarter and this has also resulted in margin compression as more competitors focused on the purchase business.
Our mortgage operations have shifted to purchase business with the mix now 93% purchase transactions and only 7% refinance transactions.
Our title company also experienced a significant reduction in refinanced transactions but delivered a $3.4 million profit in the quarter compared with $2.9 million of profit in the prior year.
Turning to our Rialto segment.
They generated operating earnings of $13.9 million compared to $4.6 million in the prior year.
Both amounts are net of noncontrolling interest.
The composition of these earnings by type of investment is as follows: the investment management business these are the funds that we manage contributed $7.2 million of earnings; the direct investments which are the FDIC and the bank portfolios contributed a net of $9.2 million of earnings; and these amounts were reduced by $12.7 million of G&amp;A and other and that's net of management fees.
Our new Rialto Mortgage Finance operations contributed a net $10.2 million during the first full quarter of operations.
Rialto's balance sheet is well positioned as we fully paid off the remainder of the $627 million of FDIC debt.
And during the quarter we issued $250 million of 7% senior notes due in 2018 in Rialto.
The net proceeds were used primarily to originate loans in Rialto Mortgage Finance and repay $100 million of capital to Lennar for the monies that were advanced to start up Rialto Mortgage Finance.
Turning to the Multifamily segment.
This is a new segment that we separated this quarter as a result of the significant growth in the multi-family business.
The initial results are the start-up expenses relating to the strong team that we've put in place that has already built the $3.7 billion pipeline that Stuart highlighted.
Turning to our balance sheet our liquidity and leverage both improved during the quarter.
We ended the fourth quarter with $700 million of cash and 0 outstanding under our $950 million unsecured revolving credit facility.
Our Homebuilding net debt-to-total cap declined sequentially from 53% to 45.6% driven by strong earnings and the conversion of the entire $277 million of principal amount of 2% convertible senior notes.
The shares from this convert were always included in our fully diluted EPS calculations so there's no additional dilution that is suffered from this conversion.
Stockholders' equity increased by $754 million during 2013 to end at $4.2 billion.
Our book value per share increased to $20.39 per share.
So now let's look forward to 2014.
I'd like to summarize some of what's been said on this call and highlight a few additional goals for 2014.
Number one deliveries.
We are currently geared up to deliver between 21 000 and 22 000 homes for 2014.
I want to clarify the backlog conversion by quarter.
We do expect a backlog conversion ratio between 75% and 80% for the first quarter and then it jumps to 80% to 85% for the second and third quarters.
And then over 90% is expected for the fourth quarter.
As Stuart mentioned our gross margin is expected to average about 25% for the full year and then there's going to be the normal seasonality applied between the quarters which is lower at the beginning of the year and higher typically in the fourth quarter at the end of the year.
SG&amp;A expenses.
We do believe that there's an opportunity to continue to increase the operating leverage that we've been seeing and we expect up to another 25 basis points of potential improvement in 2014.
Our Financial Services operations are expected to be in the range of $65 million to $75 million for the year.
We have very tough comparisons in the first half of the year due to the loss of the refinanced business that I discussed.
We expect the first quarter which is typically the slowest quarter for Financial Services to be under $5 million of profit for that quarter.
Turning to Rialto we expect a range of profits between $30 million and $40 million for the year with the first quarter close to breakeven and then picking up and having more consistent earnings for the rest of the year.
The Multifamily segment we expect will be another start-up year.
We might sell a building or 2 later in the year with the bottom line expected to be between a range of $15 million and $20 million of additional net start-up loss while we're positioning for a much stronger 2015.
On the joint venture line some of you might have heard recently we had a press release about the El Toro community.
We received entitlements for the 9 500 homes at the El Toro Great Park Neighborhoods and during this process we held off on incorporating the expected development changes until those entitlements were finalized.
As a result we're not expecting any large land sales to third-party builders until our first quarter of 2015.
However Great Park has been a tremendous success.
It's approximately 30% sold out already and we're experiencing rising sales prices.
So we continue to build tremendous value in the FivePoint assets.
However the joint venture profit line for the entire year is expected to be about breakeven.
Our 2014 effective tax rate is expected to be about 37.75% for all of 2014.
And then the net community count as was highlighted is expected to increase about 15% from our ending count of 537 to a range of 600 to 625 by the end of 2014.
So with that let me open it up for any of your questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is coming from Stephen East ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Stuart I'll just get it over with so you won't have to answer the question and over and over.
Can you talk about the progression of the orders through the quarter what you were seeing trend-wise anything post-quarter? I know it's not very long.
And then also could you just -- your West was much better than we expected; and Southeast Florida worse than expected on orders.
Just maybe a little guidance on that what was going on? Yes let me turn that over to Rick and to Jon Steve.
Rick go ahead.
So Steve from a quarter standpoint we saw a sequential improvement during the quarter from September through November pretty consistent month-to-month.
That was consistent with regard to both number of homes sold as well as pricing ASP increases.
So I think that that -- we view that as a positive.
As you know it paused in sort of the late summer and it was nice to see the improvement sequentially.
As we look at -- just specifically with regard to Southeast Florida we made some conscious decisions there to slow things down so don't be alarmed with the decline in year-over-year new orders.
The thing I would point out is we have an incredibly strong backlog there up 50% year-over-year.
And if you look at the price ASP in Southeast Florida you'll see that that was dramatically up as well.
So we made some conscious decision to slow things down.
Jon how about California? Yes Steve.
In the West we saw pretty consistent sales throughout the quarter following the same sequential trend that Rick spoke about.
But certainly we were benefited by the grand opening at the Great Park El Toro generating a lot of sales there.
We found Vegas was a strong market for us throughout the quarter with good sales and Northern California.
And compared to some of the reports that you and others have put out showing sort of declining sales in the West we found our sales held up pretty strong and had very limited incentives that were needed to move inventory.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then Stuart if you look at -- you talked about being optimistic on the spring.
What are you looking for? When will you start getting signs of what the spring is doing and what type of milepost would you look for to either continue to ratchet up pricing or start to use incentives in a greater way? Well historically the exact date that the spring starts to be indicated moves around a lot.
And especially over the past years that has been the case.
We always peg Super Bowl.
I mean it seems a little bit irrational but it seems that when the Super Bowl ends people start getting out there and looking for homes.
It's more towards wintertime than actual spring but that's when we start to get our early indications as to what's coming.
What makes us think about spring as a -- or early indication being that spring is going to be a pretty responsible season is the progression of sales.
As we've watched the market adjust to the interest rate increases and to the political environment being in a pretty solid state of turmoil we did see the market adjust.
And it started with traffic but as Rick indicated and Jon indicated we did see sequential improvement as we went through the quarter.
And that together with our traffic patterns gives us pretty good sense right now that the spring selling season is starting to shape up.
I'm not going to say -- I'm not going to be too aggressive in my statement but we feel that it's shaping up to be pretty strong given the demographic trends that we know exist the pent-up demand that we are pretty sure exists and some of it just coming pent-up demand from the political turmoil that we've seen.
We think it's going to reveal itself in the spring and we feel like we're really well prepared for it.
The next question is coming from Ivy Zelman Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> It's actually Alan on for Ivy.
Stuart just on the spring and your comments there.
And obviously you said you expect to see some robust activity in the spring.
I was curious what kind of the mix of that looks like between volume and price because a lot of other builders and maybe you guys to a lesser extent this year obviously focused on price over volume.
And I think that this quarter we've seen a modest uptick in your incentives.
And I'm curious when you think about what a robust spring selling season means is that double-digit volume growth for you or is it some type of combination between pricing and volume? And if the volume doesn't materialize at what point do you use price as a lever to drive additional sales? Maybe I'll take that.
This is Rick.
It's going to be a combination.
I think that we've seen and as you've noted in our numbers throughout the year you've seen some pretty dramatic price increases.
I think you'll start to see some of that normalize to maybe single-digit low double-digit paces.
And as Stuart mentioned early on we are very focused on operating margin as opposed to just the pure gross margin line.
So you'll see us play a little bit with pace to accentuate some communities where we can pick up some incremental absorption to push the bottom line.
LLC</strong> That's really helpful.
So just to kind of interpret that then you're confident that you could drive additional volume even continuing to push price in that high single-digit or even low double-digit range in 2014? Generally speaking we're -- it remains our view that inventories are pretty tight out there both on the existing and the new home front.
And with rental rates having continued to climb we feel that as the season starts to present itself we feel it's more likely that we're going to be able to both see volume increases and be able to manage the higher ASP.
LLC</strong> Great.
And then just one additional one.
On the gross margin guidance for flat margin guidance next year obviously this quarter came in above your expectations that you laid forth last quarter.
Curious what portion of that conservatism is a function of more of those quicker-turn deals that you referenced earlier? Or is it truly just higher land cost higher cost falling through that you expect to offset the benefit of the robust selling season? Well it's a combination.
We have some of those shorter-term positions that are starting to -- that are flowing through.
But let's not minimize the fact that in what I have characterized as a somewhat squishy environment given the higher interest rates given the political environment now incrementally as we start to look at what the FHFA announced yesterday with higher guarantee fees lower loan limits although that's a little bit varied across the geography there are some areas that you have to look at and conservatize your outlook.
And that's exactly what we did as we presented for the third quarter.
We were interested in looking and watching at how the market evolved.
Likewise as we look ahead to 2015 remember we're getting pretty close to peak margins both at the gross line and at the net line.
And so we want to take a responsible and conservative look at where we think we're going to be.
We feel comfortable with a flat and attractive margin for 2014.
And we think that the environment will enable us to maintain those high and responsible growth margins as we grow our business.
The next question is coming from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> My first question relates to land spend.
I noticed that the percentage of revenues that's your land spend declined pretty noticeably this quarter which would -- particularly from what you'd been running at earlier this year.
And I guess I was curious as to if you could comment on if there's anything that we should read into that about what you believe the trajectory near-term trajectory of land prices is likely to be or if you've see the value of land actually decline generalizing there across the country since let's say the second quarter or so? Well Steve remember we got way out ahead of the rest of the pack.
And we bought sizable parcels of land and land positions in all of our major markets early on.
We really used the cycle in a very constructive way in positioning our company for the future.
So as we look ahead I've noted in my remarks that we have been adjusting our land strategy.
We are focused on leveraging the good parcels that we've purchased.
It necessitates buying somewhat less land as we go forward.
Now of course growth will necessitate that we pick up that amount -- or the amount of the spend.
But you are seeing somewhat of a trend.
Our land spend is down a little bit right now and if you look at the number of homesites that we've put under contract I highlighted 3 000 homesites that were put under contract.
We are moderating.
As land prices have bumped up we're in the enviable position of not having to push the market and we're really carefully managing the land spend.
And as the market matures you can expect to see that we will be purchasing less in the way of longer-term positions auctioning land more aggressively and also making sure that our land purchases land that we put under contract comes onto our books in more of a just-in-time fashion.
Steve the other thing I'd point out is -- and you see it in the numbers that our land development spend increased.
And that's a function of the fact that when we were early-cycle in buying some of these pieces we're now putting the money into the ground in order to maximize the value of these assets and build on it.
So I think as Stuart said we're in a transition point right now.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Absolutely.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
The second question relates I guess more to a comment I thought I heard Bruce mention about operating leverage.
And by that I'm reading into that as sort of SG&amp;A.
And I think Bruce you made a comment that you still think that there's additional opportunities for overhead -- or rather operating leverage.
I think you said 25 basis points in 2014.
Is that -- should I be thinking that therefore SG&amp;A/corporate as a percentage of homebuilding rev might be down like 25 basis points but probably not drastically more than that? That's our expectation right now.
We've gotten down to a point that is lower than we've been at for the last number of years.
We do have some leverage and I think 25 basis points is a good place to think about us as we look at next year.
So I wouldn't go beyond that at this point.
The next question is coming from Michael Rehaut JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> First question I had was on gross margins just to go back to that obviously a pretty important area in terms of modeling going forward notwithstanding additional SG&amp;A leverage.
But with the guidance of roughly flat for the full year and you also alluded to some seasonality weaker in the -- lower in the first half stronger in the back half.
It would imply if you're just kind of working off of 25% as an average pretty sizable sequential decline from where you are right now relative to let's say at the end of '12 into early '13 it was more of like a 150-ish type sequential decline.
And so just trying to get a sense if there's any conservatism there or any product mix shift or geographic mix that might be influencing those comments because obviously to end the year with an average of around 26% is pretty strong.
And as you've alluded to you still have a lot of high-quality land coming through the income statement.
Well this is Rick.
I think you've got to keep in mind that we are going into the seasonably lower period where we're going to get deliveries in our first quarter.
Historically our gross margin in Q1 has been 100 to 200 300 basis points depending on the year lower than what our Q4 has been.
You've got costs associated with winter starts and deliveries.
So it's consistent with where we were last year.
Keep in mind last year in Q1 I think we were at 22.1% gross.
So guiding towards -- we're still on a year-over-year basis much higher than where we were last year.
I guess the other thing I'd point out is when you look at gross margins we are so far ahead of where the rest of the pack is out there that at 25% growth it's pretty strong.
And I would just add Mike when you think about the first quarter gross margins with that lower volume all of our field expenses for all the construction we have get allocated over fewer closings.
And that's one of the reasons why the margins are lower in that first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Right.
No that makes sense.
And just on this topic longer-term I think Stuart you mentioned that perhaps you'd be trying to shift over the next year or 2 towards more auctioning and faster-turnover type land deals.
If you could just give us a sense what type of gross margin those might represent relative to the land that's flowing through now or that you've worked on where you had more of a longer-term approach that typically higher risk you require a little bit more of a margin to offset that.
If -- certainly from an again an operating margin perspective you're looking for still very solid results and further leverage on SG&amp;A but would that also kind of influence this idea that hey gross margins might move a little bit perhaps away from peak that the shift in land purchases are part of that overall comment? Yes listen I think that we are looking at varied margins across the platform.
Some of that -- some of the shorter-term land positions are kind of at our average and some of them are down into the high teens.
So it's really a varied mix across the platform.
But I don't want to overstate the shorter-term positioning that we're taking.
We are also looking at more conventional land sales.
It's just that given the fact that we are able to look for land for 2016 2017 we're really able to put things under contract that we don't have to take down until later.
And those will keep -- those will be underwritten to much higher margins.
So really our averages should remain very very strong.
Some of the shorter-term positions where we have an operating platform that's already paid for and in place really makes sense for the company as we drive volumes and prices going forward into the recovery.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just clarification on a prior guidance.
Can you just restate Bruce what you said the tax rate you expected to be for '14? And in the SG&amp;A leverage is that inclusive of corporate G&amp;A? Or would you expect maybe another 10 or 20 bps of incremental leverage on the corporate G&amp;A side? Sure.
We did bring down our expectations for our tax rate for next year from 38% to 37.75%.
And the 25 basis points of leverage I would look at as a combined leverage between those 2 categories at this point.
The next question is coming from Jade Rahmani KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the Rialto lending business.
Can you speak to the kinds of loans you're looking to close and what the pipeline is and whether you -- I think your comments alluded to this but whether you would do any on-balance sheet lending such as transitional first mortgages and mezzanine loans? Jeff? In terms of the securitization business what we're doing is we're originating what would be more typical conduit loans which are stabilized loans on pretty much everything from office retail hotel et cetera.
So it's pretty much straightforward.
There's clearly an active and growing market in that arena and our team has been doing it for over 20 years.
As it relates to transitional lending we are not doing any balance sheet transitional lending.
And we are doing some mezzanine loans but we're doing those mezzanine loans as Stuart mentioned in a separate vehicle for which we are in the process of raising additional capital right now.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Can you talk about if -- I mean what you kind of expect for overall origination volume next year and what the size of the current pipeline is? And if you could just speak to the average loan size that you're able to take down? We haven't started looking forward and putting out projected numbers.
This is still -- we still view ourselves as being in a startup mode.
We think that the $700 million of originations and securitization in the fourth quarter gives a good indication of the potential power in this segment of our Rialto business.
And we do think that over time it's going to help define and refine a visible and predictable stream of earnings.
But I think it's a little too early to start putting out projected numbers and to start putting too much quarterly pressure on that group.
As I say we're still starting up and getting the engine well oiled.
The next question is coming from Adam Rudiger Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> You mentioned -- I think it was in the release that the -- and in your prepared commentary that the Rialto segment was transitioning into more of an asset-light segment.
And I was curious -- I understand the light activities that you're doing there.
I was curious what the -- if there was any change or any speedup in terms of the plans for disposition of the more heavier assets meaning the FDIC and the bank portfolios and what the strategy there is? Yes.
As we're positioned right now we have about $400 million invested on balance sheet in some of those earlier asset-heavy kind of acquisitions.
We expect over the -- if you kind of straight-line over the next 3 years we think that's kind of a good benchmark.
There will be some stragglers that go into the fourth but that's kind of a good benchmark as to how those assets will be liquidated and ultimately come back into cash.
As far as investing going forward we really aren't doing any new investing outside of the platforms that we have in place.
And of course with the $1.3 billion raise now basically completed that gives us a lot of runway in terms of being able to invest in new assets going forward.
And the mezzanine program of course is a complement to the fund management business that we've had in place to date.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then did I hear correctly that the FDIC loan is paid off so that that $400 million or the underlying investments behind that $400 million will start flowing back to you now? Yes that's correct.
We had a little over $600 million of debt that had to be paid off in its entirety first.
That was paid off in 2013.
And we are already seeing cash flowing back on the equity investment.
Jeff what was the amount that's actually come back? It was -- in total so far it's $80 million.
We're 40% of that so it's a little over $30 million that's coming back -- that has come back or is coming back over the next couple of days.
And we anticipate seeing greater cash flows as we go through 2014.
The next question is coming from Ken Zener KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Gentlemen versus your guidance do you think you're more likely to be over on gross margins or closings? As it seems to imply your guidance for closings vis-à-vis your community count seems to imply only modest sales gains in the sales pace so basically seasonality.
What does that ramp look like in communities off the 4Q base? Look the balance between volume and margin is more of an art than a science and we'll have to manage that as market conditions present themselves.
I think the question as to whether we're more likely to beat on one or the other I think that we're giving guidance thinking that's where we're going to actually be.
And as we go through the year and as we feel market conditions present themselves I think we're going to navigate that balance on a day-by-day basis in each division at a very local level.
One of the complications in our business is the business is so local that that balance being struck at the local levels you can't really nationalize what's actually happening until you actually roll up the numbers.
So to give you a good answer on that as it stands right now I would -- looking at -- looking ahead to next year I would have to say where we're more likely to outperform is probably both and that's kind of our feeling right now.
But staying conservative we've given numbers that we feel comfortable with.
Research Division</strong> And if I could follow up given your -- I appreciate your conversion rates.
I think it tends to reflect the fact that you build homes outside of backlog.
Could you comment on the margin spread you are seeing between spec homes and backlog? Given the conversion rate that could be part of your margin swing as well.
And to the extent you noticed a difference between spec buyers who might be moving related to jobs compared to someone that's perhaps more patient and taking down a home out of backlog? Jon you've been quiet.
Why don't you take that one? Those tend to be higher-margin on our backlog which are presales before construction.
But as Stuart said it's a very local business.
And that will range dramatically from state to state and even within local markets depending on product type.
So a multi-family condo or townhome will have a smaller spread than perhaps a larger single-family home.
But we do see the buyers who are relocation tend to be more of that spec buyers or someone coming out of an apartment whereas someone coming out of an existing home is someone typically that is going to be a presale.
The next question is coming from David Goldberg of UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question obviously the pickup in incentives was very small.
And I not to put too fine a focus on it but I kind of want to think a little bit bigger term here and think about other builders are reacting when they're seeing an increased use of incentives.
Are you finding your competitors in markets are trying to match you guys outdo you for sales at this point or are they kind of holding back more? And I mean how would you expect that -- just given your historical experience how do you think that's going to play out as you go through the selling season if it ends up that demand isn't quite as good as you think? I think that everybody is really carefully managing the balance between leveraging their overhead increasing their average sales price and maximizing the good land assets that they have recognizing that they're very very difficult to replace.
So you have in my opinion a very responsible competitive environment pretty much across the platform right now.
And if you think about that and put it in historical perspective David there have been times where land has been more plentiful and more easily replaceable.
And in those kinds of times you probably have a much more competitive spirit in terms of just driving volume.
That does not seem to be the case right now.
Everybody's trying to manage that balance between volume and maximizing return on what they view as a scarce asset.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful color.
I was wondering Stuart you've given some really good color on the mortgage market loosening in past quarters.
And I wonder if you could talk about kind of what you've seen in the most recent quarter? I know you talked about the FHFA and higher G fees and maybe some changes with the FHA but as you look out to 2014 what are your expectations in terms of mortgage market maybe from reemergence of private mortgage insurers and the impact that's going to have on the entry level as we move kind of into the next stage of this recovery? Well we're at an interesting inflection point where the mortgage market is evolving in a free market sense but the government is very involved and there are a lot of opinions at the governmental level right now.
We see an outgoing Ed DeMarco waving goodbye in a very complicated way at a complicated time with the announcement yesterday.
And we have an unknown in the incoming head of FHFA.
I think that everybody's aware that a derailing of the mortgage market in the context of a somewhat tepid recovery to date is problematic for overall economic recovery.
So I think we're going to have to kind of wait and see over the next month how the mortgage market presents itself and what kind of governmental adjustments will or might be made.
I wouldn't be surprised if some of what's been that gets rolled back.
I wouldn't be surprised if there are more incremental difficulties presented for the mortgage market.
That being said I think that they will be incremental.
I think that the overall housing market will find its way to adjusting and we'll have to navigate our way through it.
But I think that there are some question marks and headwinds out there but I think that the strength in the recovery and general strength in the economy are going to overcome them.
Research Division</strong> But is it fair to surmise you're not expecting much loosening as you move into next year as you kind of look out to your estimates in your land purchasing? That I would not be expecting as much loosening? I think the banks are going to continue to loosen.
Remember the refi business has all but evaporated.
It's a small shadow of itself.
And the banks are really replacing some of that income stream by taking away some of the overlays that they've had in place.
I think there's likely to be some loosening as we go forward but there will be some counterbalancing to that with some other elements higher interest rates and other things.
But overall I think everybody is holding hands recognizing that a vibrant mortgage market is the key to the housing market continuing its recovery and ultimately to creating jobs and creating economic prosperity across the country.
The last question is coming from Jack Micenko SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First one.
Looking at first wondering if you could help us on homebuilding land sales.
The top line sale number's come down year-to-year and I'm thinking about it in the context of slowing your land investment and more of this old high-margin land becoming more of the mix.
Should we think about homebuilding land sales continuing to decline on sort of the trajectory we saw in '13 versus '12 or can you give us any feel for how that would look potentially for modeling purposes? Sure.
From the standpoint of modeling purposes we're not expecting much in the way of sales of land.
So the number came down.
We're certainly not anticipating it -- sometimes you have the opportunity to move out of one position into another opportunity that's nearby.
So generally we're not anticipating land sales.
If they happen it's more of a strategic focus as we're looking at other opportunities.
But for modeling purposes generally we don't model land sales and it's something I would say not to include in the model any land profit.
It's not what we're focused on.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Jeff on the commercial mortgage side.
With the $700 million in production I'm wondering if you're seeing any behavior changes at the competitor banks.
Are they potentially responding based on -- if you're hearing anything around price on the spread or maybe on the term or duration of the loan anything there as you sort of create another option for stabilized borrowers out there? It's a competitive market but we have a very very strong eye on credit.
So we maintain our position.
But it's a growing market.
And you have -- over the next several years you have hundreds of billions of dollars of loans that are coming up -- coming to maturity that are going to need to be refinanced.
So we see our position as a great position as that market continues to expand.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good.
And then on the credit side do you said you have recourse on those loans.
And what's the nature of the recourse if you do? The typical conduit loan is a nonrecourse loan and we're looking to the credit of the underlying real estate as support for the -- and again these are stabilized assets that have cash loans coming from rents or under leases.
Okay.
Very good.
That wraps up our conference call for 2013.
We look forward to reporting a successful 2014.
Thank you everyone.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to Lennar’s First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now turn the call over to Mr.
David Collins for the reading of the forward-looking statement.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Today’s conference call may include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to Lennar’s future business and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements may include statements regarding Lennar’s business financial condition results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar’s estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could affect future results and may cause Lennar’s actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described in this morning’s press release and our SEC filings including those under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar’s annual report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us for our first quarter update.
This morning I’m joined by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; Dave Collins who you’ve just heard from; and Diane Bessette our Vice President and Treasurer.
Additionally Rick Beckwitt here with me this morning who is our President; and Jeff Krasnoff Chief Executive Officer of Rialto both joining for the Q&amp;A session.
We also have Eric Feder here who facilitates our deal flow across our operating platforms and whose birthday it is today and he will join us for Q&amp;A today as well Happy Birthday Eric; and Jon Jaffe is available by telephone.
He is our Chief Operating Officer and he is in California.
As is customary on our conference call I want to begin this morning with some brief overview remarks on the housing market and then briefly overview our operation.
And then Bruce is going to provide greater detail on our numbers and some additional comments on financial services segment.
And then as always we will open up to Q&amp;A.
As in the past we’d like to request that during the Q&amp;A session each person limit themselves to one question and one follow-up.
So let me go ahead and begin and let me begin by saying that we are very pleased to report that we’ve been able to begin our 2014 year with a solid first quarter start.
Our company is very well-positioned to be able to continue to perform extremely well due to our well-crafted strategy and tied to a clear view of general market conditions.
In our year end and fourth quarter conference call we reported to you that we have seen a clear pause in the rate of recovery in the housing market and while prices had continue to appreciate volume had clearly subsided.
In the first quarter we have seen clear signs that volume is returning to the market even as severe weather made conditions difficult.
As we moved past the seasonally slowest month of the year end we began to see both traffic and sales volume begin a steady month-by-month improvement throughout the quarter.
The progression through our fourth quarter of 2013 and into our first quarter of 2014 continues to fuel our confidence and our belief that the housing market recovery continues as we begin to enter the more vibrant seasonal month of the year.
We continue to believe that the fundamental drivers of improvement in the housing market remain a steadily improving economy with a slowly improving employment picture unlocking pent-up demand while supplies remain constrained to meet that demand.
We continue to believe that there remains a production deficit of both single-family and multifamily dwellings from underproduction during the economic downturn and up to an including last year.
This shortfall will continue to define the housing markets for the foreseeable future and will drive the housing recovery forward.
Accordingly the builders of both multi and single-family products will continue to increase production as inventories have remained extremely low and pent-up demand comes to the market.
And even as the market respond inventories are likely to remain constrained as production increases are limited by shortage of entitled and developed land to build on in desirable location.
While we recognize the potential headwind from a constrained and sometimes uncertain mortgage market including interest rate volatility and sometimes volatile consumer confidence and also diminishing investment purchasers in the retail market.
We feel that the fundamentals of short supply of available home and pent-up demand will continue to define our strategy of land acquisition and growth and drive the recovery forward.
Against that backdrop Lennar has begun 2014 with very solid first quarter results as each of our business -- businesses showed strong performance in the first quarter and are well-positioned for the future.
This speaks both to the solid management execution of our articulated strategies and to the positioning of our company for continued performance throughout the year.
Now homebuilding of course remains the primary driver of our quarterly performance.
For the first quarter homebuilding revenues grew to $1.2 billion up 42% over last year as we continue to focus on maximizing pricing power.
Deliveries were up some 13% over the prior year.
Our sales pace in the first quarter averaged 2.8 sales per community per month which was essentially flat compared to last year.
We opened 60 new communities and closed out 49 during the quarter to end at 548 active communities which is a 13% year-over-year increase.
And our absorption pace in sales improved sequentially through the quarter with the sales in the quarter up 10% while new order dollar value was up 26%.
In the West where we were not impacted by weather and where we were able to open new communities our sales were up 45% year-over-year and 40% -- and 47% on the community count growth.
Our Western operations made up for some of the markets that were hardest hit by severe weather conditions during the quarter.
We continue to focus on maximizing our pricing power.
Our average sales price is $316 000 was a year-over-year increase of $47 000 or 18% and a 3% sequential increase from the fourth quarter.
This improvement in sales prices covers our increases in labor materials and land cost improving our gross margins by 300 basis points to year -- 300 basis points year-over-year to 25.1%.
Year-over-year labor and material costs are up 9.8% to over $47 a square foot and sequentially this is less than a 1% increase from the fourth quarter as lower lumber prices from previous quarters were reflected in this quarters result.
We continue however to see cost increases in some of the materially -- material most notably drywall lumber and siding that will begin to impact our second quarter deliveries.
However we did see an easing on the labor pressure in many other markets.
With SG&amp;A of 11.8% we continue to improve our operating leverage as this is 20 basis point year-over-year improvement.
This operating leverage combined with our pricing power produced a 13.2% net operating margin for the quarter and -- which is a 310 basis point improvement year-over-year.
We’ve continued our focus on cost effective marketing with total Lennar online visits in Q1 increasing 39% year-over-year and this quarter we also surpassed over 1 million social media followers.
I’d like to also point out that our bottom line performance has greatly benefited from the execution on our NextGen product strategy.
Year-over-year sales of our multigenerational brand grew by 57% and accounted for 5% of our new orders in Q1.
We now offer our NextGen plan in 178 communities across the country and in Q1 the average sales price for NextGen was about $450 000.
During the fourth quarter we continued our carefully crafted land acquisition program and purchased approximately 8 800 homesites for $505 million while we spent $226 million on land development for the future.
Combined our land acquisition and land development spend was up about 33% over the prior year period.
As in prior quarters money was invested geographically in the markets where we saw the best opportunities and the best returns.
As quarter end we owned and controlled approximately 154 000 homesites and as I mentioned before had 548 active communities.
As we noted in our last conference call we expect to be able to increase community count by approximately 15% over the course of 2014.
As we look ahead to 2014 and beyond we are fortunate to -- to the remainder of 2014 and beyond we are fortunate to have land in hand to meet our projected deliveries through this year and for all of next year and this positions us very well to maintain gross margins that are consistent with our first -- reported first quarter margin for the remainder of the year.
Our fourth quarter performance highlights very strong management execution but also indicate how well-positioned we are for future performance driven strong -- by strong operating strategy complemented by an excellent management team and excellent management execution.
Complementing our homebuilding operations our financial services segment continues to build its primary business alongside the homebuilder and its working to replace the now diminished refi business with a vibrant retail business across our national footprint.
Bruce will talk more about financial services progress which had a very respectable quarter with operating earnings of $4.5 million though down from $16.1 million last year when the refi business was thriving.
While our Homebuilding and Financial Services division are the primary drivers of near-term revenues and earnings our three additional operating divisions are all continuing to mature as excellent longer-term value creation platforms for the company.
Rialto continues to make significant progress in transitioning from an asset heavy balance sheet investor to a capital wide investment manager commercial loan originator and securitizer.
Rialto today is involved in three different businesses.
Our first is the direct investment business where we were able to return or will return shortly over $120 million in cash to the partners in those initial investments including almost $50 million to Rialto.
Our goal is to monetize the bulk of these assets by the end of 2016 generating over $400 million of cash for us to recycle.
The second area is our growing investment management and servicing platform.
Our objective here is to grow our assets under management and create value for investors.
We’re continuing to build upon the base established with our first real estate fund and during the quarter we completed the race for Rialto Real Estate Fund II closing out with $1.3 billion of equity commitments.
And Fund II is already invested or committed to invest approximately $700 million in approximately 50 transactions and has started making distributions of income to investors as well.
We expect to begin raising our third real estate fund later this year.
And finally our third business is Rialto Mortgage Finance our high return on equity conduit lending platform.
RMF as we refer to it is focused on originating and securitizing long-term fixed rate loans on stabilized cash flow and commercial real estate properties.
During the first quarter we completed our fifth and sixth securitization transactions selling an additional $250 million of RMF originated loans bringing the total to almost $1 billion in only our first two quarters of securitization activity.
In the first quarter Rialto exceeded our breakeven expectations with a $2.6 million profit and is well positioned for a strong 2014.
As with Rialto we’re very pleased with the progress of our multi-family apartment business.
As we’ve noted in the past this business began operations in early 2011 and is positioned to be one of the leading developers on new Class A apartments in the United States.
As homeownership rates have drifted downward and the large millennial generation begins to lead home and form households this strategy continues to be an excellent complement to our primary for-sale homebuilding business.
During the first quarter we started development and construction on three additional apartment communities.
We now have 15 communities of which two are completed and operating and two are partially completed and leasing.
And the remaining 11 are under construction.
These 15 communities have approximately 4 000 apartments with an estimated development cost of approximately $835 million.
In addition to these communities we have a geographic re-diversified pipeline that exceeds $2.8 billion and represents an additional 11 600 apartments.
As we’ve discussed in the past we are building these apartments with third-party institutional capital and each deal has been conservatively financed with non-recourse debt.
With our conservative financing and our conservative underwriting we are positioned to earn IRRs exceeding 25% and cash multiples greater than two times.
We anticipate with the construction -- we anticipate that the construction of our development pipeline will be completed over the next four years.
Finally our FivePoint Communities program continues to mature as a long-term strategy as well and is quickly moving to bring developed land in our premium California locations to the market to fill the growing demand for well located approved and developed home sites.
Overall and in summary our company is extremely well positioned to succeed in the current market conditions.
We have an excellent management team that’s focused on a carefully crafted strategy that has positioned us with advantage to assets that will continue to drive industry-leading profitability.
Additionally we have a well-diversified platform that will continue to enhance shareholder value as our ancillary businesses mature.
We are very pleased with our progress and performance -- we’re very pleased with our progress and performance in the first quarter and we look forward to reporting progress on a very successful 2014 year ahead.
With that let me turn over to Bruce.
Thanks Stuart and good morning.
Our net earnings for the first quarter were $0.35 per diluted share versus $0.26 in the prior year.
Our earnings before income taxes were $126 million which was an increase of 136% over the prior year.
Let me add a little color to the numbers starting with Homebuilding.
The 13% increase in deliveries resulted in a backlog conversion ratio of 75% for the quarter.
This was within our previously announced goal for the quarter despite the tough weather conditions that Stuart mentioned.
The 18% increase in average sales price to $316 000 is broken down by region as follows.
The East region was $279 000 up 11%.
Southeast Florida was $341 000 up 26%.
Central region was $266 000 up 3%.
Houston was $278 000 up 8%.
The West region was 413 000 this was up 41% and although they had a sizable increase in average sales price they also benefited from some favorable product mix.
The other region was $385 000 up 13%.
Our gross margin on home sales which Stuart highlighted was up 300 basis points to 25.1%.
This improvement was driven by a couple of things.
Sales incentives were $21 300 per home in the quarter and that was a year-over-year improvement of 170 basis points.
It came down from 8% in the prior year to 6.3% as a percentage of the home price.
The gross margin percentage improved in the East Southeast Florida Houston and West regions during the quarter and the highest gross margin was in the Southeast Florida region.
Additionally during the quarter we received an insurance settlement totaling $5.5 million which favorably impacted the gross margins.
In addition to the significant operating leverage mentioned earlier we have additionally recognized operating leverage in our corporate G&amp;A line as our corporate G&amp;A improved 40 basis points to 2.8% and this is as a percentage of total revenues.
During the quarter we closed $91 million of land sales totaling $16 million of profit.
$65 million of these land sales were from mothballed assets which were strategically sold to redeploy the capital into near-term producing assets with favorable operating margins.
Additionally in one of these sales Lennar will be the developer and will earn approximately $7 million in fees over two-year period starting in 2015.
Our ending community count increased to 548.
However there were about 16 communities that were shifted into Q2 as a result of a delay due to weather conditions.
Turning to Financial Services.
This segment generated operating earnings of $4.5 million versus $16.1 million in the prior year.
This is in line with our year end conference call comments that we expected Financial Services earnings to be below $5 million for the first quarter.
Mortgage pretax income decreased to $6.5 million from $16.4 million in the prior year.
The decrease in profitability was primarily due to an 83% decrease in refinance loan origination volumes which also resulted in margin compression as more competitors focused on the purchase business.
Mortgage originations declined 25% from the prior year to approximately $900 million and we captured 75% of Lennar homebuyers using mortgages for their purchase.
Our title companies also experienced a significant reduction in refinanced transactions and in this quarter which is the seasonally slowest quarter of the year they had $1.6 million loss compared with $300 000 profit in the prior year.
Turning to the Rialto segment.
They generated operating earnings of $2.6 million compared to $1.7 million in the prior year.
Both of these amounts are net of non-controlling interest.
The composition of Rialto’s operating earnings by the three types of investments are as follows the direct investments which is the FDIC and bank portfolios had a net loss of $1.6 million the investment management business contributed $5.8 million of earnings and these numbers don’t improve the carried interest which are under a hypothetical liquidation increased by $9 million for the quarter and is now at $90 million.
We expect this number to continue to grow and isn’t recognized as income until proceeds are actually received.
Our new Rialto Mortgage Finance operations contributed $253 million of commercial loans into two securitizations resulting in the earnings of $3.1 million for the quarter and this is net of their respective G&amp;A.
Additionally there was $1.1 million of management fees which is net of remaining Rialto G&amp;A and others.
Interest expense for the quarter increased to $5.7 million due to the issuance of $250 million of senior notes in the fourth quarter.
Our Rialto balance sheet is very well positioned today.
They ended the quarter with $169 million of cash and subsequent to the quarter end we completed a $100 million add-on to the initial $250 million five year unsecured notes that we closed at the end of last year.
This add-on was done at an effective interest rate of 6.31%.
The Multifamily segment results for the quarter are consistent with expectations as we have met start-up operating expenses of $6.2 million.
Our balance sheet liquidity is strong.
We ended the first quarter with $646 million of Homebuilding cash and no outstanding borrowings under our $950 million unsecured revolving credit facility.
We issued $500 million of senior notes due June 2019 in the quarter.
This reduces our borrowing cost and also fits well into our debt maturity ladder.
Our Homebuilding net debt to total cap was 48.5% and we received positive outlook upgrades from both S&amp;P and Moody’s during the first quarter.
Our book value per share at the end of the quarter increased to $20.84.
Finally let me summarized what we said on this call and revisit the 2014 goals from our year end conference calls.
First with deliveries we are maintaining our goal to deliver between 21 000 and 22 000 in homes for 2014.
We are also maintaining our backlog conversion ratio expectations which is between 80% and 85% for both Q2 and Q3 and we expect to be over 90% for Q4.
Next our gross margin expectations are to still average 25% for the full year with the fourth quarter being higher than the second and third quarter of this year.
Our first quarter gross margin percentages were benefited by approximately 50 basis points due to the insurance settlement highlighted earlier.
SG&amp;A we continued to focus on leveraging this line and expect about 25 basis points of potential improvements throughout the year same as we said at year end.
Financial Services earnings are still expected to be in the $65 million to $75 million range for the full year and it’s more heavily weighted to the second half of the year.
Rialto still expects profits between $30 million and 40 million for the year and those profits are also more heavily weighted to the second half of the year.
Multifamily still expects start-up losses of $15 million to $20 million for the year and this includes one or two apartment community sales that are possible later this year.
Our joint venture and land sale category we do not expect any significant sales for the remainder of the year so we expect to be about breakeven for these two categories.
And our 2014 effective tax rate is now expected to be about 37%.
Net community count for the year we still expect to end the year in a range of 600 to 625 even though we had a delay of about 16 communities into our second quarter.
So with that let me turn it over to the operator for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Ivy Zelman with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning and very happy birthday wishes to Eric.
Big picture Stuart you have a very solid quarter and you talked about the sequential improvement in pricing.
Can you talk a little bit about the competitive environment and any change in your view of builders increasing incentives as they are not seeing sales pace and how it impacts your business? And then just on the bigger picture basis you had highlighted that your current operating divisions I think you had said are roughly 30 and the comparison I think was over a 100 at the peak.
How do you operate as you grow with such a lean infrastructure? And is there opportunity to improve SG&amp;A significantly better than where you are today? Ivy I’m going to let Rick and then Jon lay in on those two questions.
From a competitive standpoint Ivy the market has ceded up a little bit partially driven by the fact that there were some weather issues and builders were trying to move inventory close to the end of their quarters depending on where their quarters were.
We’re benefiting from the fact that there is not a lot of inventory out there for sale.
So the issues aren’t that pronounced at this point.
We did not increase significantly any incentives throughout the quarter as you can see in our numbers although there are some folks out there that are pushing the number in order to move some inventory.
But we’re not alarmed by that.
We think that our communities are really well located or in decent places.
We’ve got a good mix of build jobs as well as things moving through the construction cycle.
So we are really pleased with where we have inventory and how things are priced.
We have seen a little bit of slowdown in price increases as we’ve moved through the year.
Prices ran real quick.
And so to the extent that there are incentives it’s sort of balanced between maybe not moving the price up as much as taking something away.
Jon your thoughts? I would echo what Rick said.
There are some isolated cases where competitive incentives are kicked in and particularly if you look at Phoenix or Las Vegas but we’re well positioned.
And we’re focused on really margin over maintaining a pace where there might be those incentives.
In the most part the west has been relatively light in incentives because it’s so land constrained.
If you look at the west it hovers around 3% as compared to the company average of just over 6%.
And we feel that we’re very well positioned as we move forward with our community locations product type.
And as well I would add our EI platform gives us a differentiation that allows us to I think hold our prices more stable.
With respect to the growth in leveraging our -- the way we structured our divisions I think we learned a lot during the downturn and are very well positioned to be able to leverage that and continue to grow our community count with adding very little in the way of division management.
We’ll clearly add out in the field in construction and sales as we add community count.
But we see the need to add very little in terms of additional operational groups to be able to grow year-over-year effectively.
Yeah.
And just to add to that Ivy from an organizational standpoint keep in mind we at the peak of the market were running this thing with nine regions.
We’ve got four today.
We had 100 plus operating divisions.
And while we’re at 30 as some of the markets get a little bit bigger let’s just use South Florida.
We’re probably going to split South Florida into two pieces because it’s gotten so large.
But given the fact that we’ve structured this pretty efficiently with product strategy and where things are getting purchased from a regional standpoint.
We think we can keep the overhead real well in control and get some operating leverage.
And let me add one more point here.
And that is as we went through the downturn we consolidated divisions in a number of ways.
We combined some geographies.
Some of those geographies will be unbound but we were also running two platforms in almost every market.
We were running an Everything’s Included in a designed studio platform across the country.
And it was really a pretty inefficient way of running but hard to unwind while the market was ceded.
The downturn in the market really enabled us to unify under a single platform.
We today have a well crafted EI program that has adapted to each local market.
Rick and Jon work together and across our platform to really carefully craft the strategy as a one division market strategy for each unique geography and that marketing platform is very efficient today.
So while there will be some unwinding of some of the geographic doubling up it will be minor in comparison to the efficiencies that we’ve created by operating under a singular platform that’s really carefully crafted for each market.
Great.
Thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from Eli Hackel with Goldman Sachs.
Go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Stuart I know historically you’ve said credit is loosening but maybe very very slowly.
And it will take some time before we look back and look back a couple of years and see that action.
Seems to me the biggest hurdle is regulatory certainty so maybe what or maybe some specific what are you doing and maybe a little bit more about what the industry doing is maybe to get a thought of Mel Watt? Or for whoever else potentially gets some more regulatory certainty in the market maybe not such big things as GSE reform but maybe some other things on the margin that the industry could potentially do to get things moved on a little more quickly? I would love your thoughts on that.
Well it’s a good question.
And let me say first of all that the industry is not just working on and getting in front of Mel Watt but all of the participants in the discussion both in Congress and the Administration and making sure that we are heard and that the pitfalls of rapid change is not carefully thought out that doesn’t properly regard the plumbing system that’s in place should be of great concern.
So when I say the industry I mean I’m included in that but most of the CEOs are working together within the industry to make sure that the industry’s voices heard.
So what are we doing other than trying to make sure that our voices are heard? I think a lot of the same things that investors and analysts and others are doing and that is we’re going to have to wait and see what actually does shake out.
I know that we’ve seen some initial readings from the Senate I guess Finance Committee or Banking Committee that has already approved GSE reform in a sense but it’s a long way until those reforms are adopted by both houses of Congress and actually move forward.
A lot of people think that there might not be much movement this year and maybe not for a couple of years.
We will have to wait and see.
What we have seen though in the field is that the margins credit has been reverting to more normalized levels in the very slow kind of orderly fashion.
I will say that mortgage approval and tight money is a constraint to opening up demand and bringing demand to the marketplace but at the margins and over time I think we are seeing that reversion to normal.
So you kind of have to sit back and rely on the fact that let the Administration and Congress understand how vital housing is to economic recovery and rely on the fact they probably won’t do something that materially alters the landscape and we will continue to see that reversion to normal as we go forward.
That’s kind of how we’re thinking about it and incorporating that thinking into our business strategy.
Great thanks.
And then maybe just one quick follow-up.
Just curious about how you view your ability in terms of one of the only companies to grow substantially in the last -- how you’re able to do that? And then quickly just curious about the South Florida decline there maybe that just community count driven but was curious on that? Thank you very much.
Okay.
On California Jon why don’t you weigh in and Rick why don’t you take these? Sure.
Hi Eli.
In California and West in general we’ve got out early and aggressive as we talked about on prior calls with our land acquisition strategy and positioned our ourselves for strong community count growth year-over-year ‘13 over ‘12 ‘14 over ‘13.
And what we said today we are well positioned into ‘15 ‘16 and even into 2017.
So it’s really been that strategy of getting out in all the primary markets in California acquiring some flagship communities to have a stable presence in a lot of the markets as and then adding on to that and position ourselves for significant kind of growth that you’ve seen.
So enable us to increase our sales activity 45% in the west and sales price up 37% and that’s on that community count growth of 47%.
And we see that growth I’m not saying at the high level community count but significant as we move forward.
And with regard to Southeast Florida that’s really been a conscious effort on our part.
We did not want sales to get ahead of us.
This is a very strong market here.
We’ve been very focused on pricing.
We saw during the quarter we were up about 9% in South Florida on pricing.
A little bit of it had an impact with regard to the timing of some grand openings that we had last year particularly in the Doral area but we are very comfortable with the strategy that we’re executing here.
It’s tough the market that has perhaps the highest margins that we have in the country.
We’ve got great land assets and we want to make sure we don’t build through them too quick and building up backlog if we can’t deliver them doesn’t make a lot of sense for us so we slowed it down.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Go ahead your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
First question I had was on sales pace.
And I think in the press release it was noted that still maybe a little bit too early to call the spring but at the same time obviously we’re about a month and half in February obviously contributed to a solid quarter and you have an early look on March.
With the comments also about sales pace I guess improving sequentially throughout the quarter I was curious if you could give us a sense of on a year-over-year basis sales pace was down roughly 4% versus the year ago quarter if that was different at all intra-quarter? And as you’d kind of with the momentum I guess or of at least February and into March if there is any additional comments you might want to provide about your comfort level or confidence about the next couple months? Yes.
So Mike we haven’t gone through the monthly absorption rate.
What we did highlight is that we did progress favorably through the quarter.
We were pleased as we got into February but we didn’t get to the specific absorption rates month by month but we are optimistic with what we are seeing with traffic traffic improved throughout the quarter as well.
Again that’s a drill down into the numbers exactly.
We felt like this is a normal progression through our first quarter going into the spring.
We haven’t commented on March.
We typically don’t do the intra-quarter commentary but this is a normal progression that we would expect going into the spring selling season and wait and see what happens for the next three months.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
I mean I guess the second question just on gross margins not to nitpick too much but just so I have -- more than just that I understand correctly your comments earlier Bruce about fourth quarter you expect fourth quarter gross margins to be better than I believe say 2Q and 3Q.
Obviously with the first quarter coming in around 25% it might imply 2Q or 3Q being a little bit less than that.
I just want to know if I’m interpreting that correct.
And I know you haven’t really talked about margins beyond this year but given the high level of margins relative to history at the same time you have a great backlog of land that might create some above average visibility or sustainability of those margins.
How you guys are thinking about margins past 2014? Okay.
So let me start with the first part of that question.
In the first quarter just a reminder we had the benefits from the legal settlement.
So excluding that we’re at 24.6%.
We expect Q2 and Q3 to be a little bit higher and therefore it would likely be below the 25.1% if you included the legal settlement and then the fourth quarter would likely be higher.
So look at the 25% without the legal settlement included.
And then for the second part of the question we haven’t given any guidance to next year yet but we do feel really good about the land.
As Stuart said earlier we do have locked and loaded the land for this year next year.
We feel very comfortable with the efficiencies we have in the business.
So there is no reason to think that there is a going to be a falloff in the margins at this point.
We will continue to update as we go through the year but we are very encouraged and enthusiastic as we think ahead into next year.
Just to add to that let me say as we look ahead to 2015 and ‘16 Mike we’ve articulated in prior conference calls that we are thinking about volumes.
Remember that this recovery has been somewhat different than prior recovery in that it is -- we’ve led this recovery with price increase recovery as opposed to volume recovery.
But as we go forward we suspect that we are going to see volumes increase and it’s altogether possible but as volumes increase we will add shorter term more retail-oriented positions to our land portfolio.
And as we do that that could alter the landscape of margins going forward that is gross margins in favor of operating margins as we leverage our platform.
So we are not going to look too far ahead.
Right now we have a great deal of confidence in our margin composition and where we are going in ‘14 and into ‘15 but that can -- the complexion of that can change and be altered a little bit if we decide to pick up volume by adding some community count.
So we don’t really want to give a firm projection but do want to highlight that we have excellent land positions to carry us into next year.
Great there much appreciated.
Sure.
Our next question is from Stephen East with ISI Group.
Go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Stuart you all gave us a lot of good information on multifamily Rialto et cetera? And we should be able to start to unlock value a little bit more from a modeling perspective? As you sit and look at those businesses and the timelines for monetization you talked a little bit about potentially selling one or two apartments but as you all think internally how do you start to unlock the value from a monetization standpoint and when do you think that starts to occur? Well as I noted Steve these businesses are maturing and maturing right on track.
When you look at the apartment business you’re really starting to see a business that is defining the kind of a recurring program though we’re not quite there yet.
Right now we have two communities that are completed two communities that are partially completed and 11 that are under construction.
As we look ahead we’re pretty confident that we’ll start construction on another seven or so this year and maybe even more.
As we start to develop kind of a monthly tracking mechanism and a way of thinking about how long it’s going to take to actually put something online take it offline and monetize.
That’s when we’re going to start to be able to bring visibility to you as the business matures.
And more importantly start to think about what kind of monetization program might be most efficient in creating shareholder value.
Likewise Rialto is starting to present itself in a more normalized way.
We highlighted three business segments it’s actually really two.
The first business segment is the liquidation of our legacy assets.
The other two businesses are really starting to perk up and present.
The asset management business is really fortifying itself with assets invested that are starting to generate real returns and perhaps more importantly promote that is not realized and as that starts to get realized the maturity of that business will present itself alongside of our math which is our make loans and securitize business which is basically a fee business based on volume.
So over the next year or two we’ll really start to see some visibility come out of those businesses and that visibility will be a stepping stone to getting to some form of monetization.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then just going back to the core business just sort of looking at it as you talked about this year you’ve highlighted to some degree that you’ve got a little bit of SG&amp;A leverage but when I listened to Rick and Jon it sounds like the potential for the SG&amp;A leverage could jump up quite a bit if you can get the volumes through the 15% type growth on communities? Just where do you all think about your business are you basically there on SG&amp;A leverage or is this a story with some multiyear and we can expect to drive to levels that maybe lower levels that we didn’t see in prior cycles? Steve its Rick.
I don’t think we’re there quite yet but it’s coming pretty fast.
We were a little bit delaying on the quarter because we had some weather impacts.
New community openings as Bruce highlighted starts were a little bit impacted by 100 to 150 starts over the quarter.
So it’s going to queue up as we move through the year.
But as we said earlier with regard to the restructuring that was done in the business and our focus on moving towards incremental volume and absorptions in these communities we think that you’ll see the leverage.
When it comes through it’s probably you are not going to see it you will see sequential improvement as you’ve seen in prior years but just give us a little bit of time and you will reach the benefit from that.
Let me just add to that for a second and say that operating leverage is going to come in a couple of forms but not just the efficiencies that you’ve already seen but the efficiencies that we continue to be focused on.
We highlighted our digital platform in a small way in our opening remarks.
The migration from conventional marketing and advertising to a more digital platform is something that we still think is in its infancy and our business and offers an opportunity to further enhance the operating leverage that we can have by bringing some new systems and programs to our regular platform.
So I think that I think we’re quickly getting to some of the efficiencies that are embedded in what we’ve done.
But I think over the next few years there is opportunity not just for us but for others in the industry to really enhance efficiencies by changing the way that we operate our business.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Go ahead.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Another strong quarter congratulations on that.
I wanted to just start off just little bit comment which I think Mike earlier was trying to get at which is that he just made an observation that sort of things in the fourth quarter were a little bit softer in terms of the demand side and the progression now with of course the first quarter was kind of normal sequentially and so if that would be the -- what you described the implication might be that if things are still a little bit not as good as maybe things had been in the past? So I just throw that out in terms of an observation there maybe something getting lost in translation because I’m sort of hearing from your body language the things are good but not great they’re certainly not bad you used the word optimistic which can mean a lot of different things? But my question actually relates to the first time buyer.
You and many other builders have sort of talked about the fact that there is sort of some difficulties in that market I know you’ve talked about it in the past it’s sort of not yet fully come into its own yet? And I was curious as to when you think that market that buyer type might start coming back into the market in greater format and what you’re doing to prepare for it? And I’m specifically interested in the timing of it and what you’re doing in terms of like the land and things like that to particularly go after that market? On the land side Steve its Rick.
As we said in prior quarters when this question has been brought up we’ve been focused on securing land positions that are right for this type of buyer.
Price point needs to be low.
Volumes need to be high because you’re making a small amount per copy when you’re closing the home.
So in order to be in this business you need to structure as a volume-oriented business because it’s generally skinnier gross margins but rapid pace.
Right.
Since we benefit from the fact as that we’ve secured the lion share of our deliveries for ‘14 and ‘15 gives us an opportunity to tap out there and tie-up some pieces of properties so when this buyer comes out we’re positioned for it and that’s exactly what we’ve done.
I would just add to what Rick said that we’re also working with the buyers that are first-time buyers and sitting down with them and helping them from a credit counseling perspective.
So that we’re helping them to prepare to be able to qualify for a mortgage as that first time market comes back.
So I just want to make sure that I’m understanding what I heard.
So is this your view Rick that your company because of the fact that you’ve been sort of proactive in this and have identified this market as one that’s going to come back did you already take in steps maybe perhaps more than your competition to position yourself to capture this market when the buyer demand increases there or is this not a strategic focus for you versus your competitors? I’m just trying to understand how important… I’m not going to talk about what the competition is doing because I don’t think that’s particularly relevant to what our investor base is interested in.
What I will tell you is that we have made conscious effort to address this as a potential augmented business as the market recovers.
Right now the financing is a little bit tough.
There is down payment issues with this type of buyer.
But given the demographics and what we know about the market this market is going to come back.
I think that’s why Stuart foreshadowed earlier in the call that our margins maybe impacted a bit as we pursue a more volume-oriented approach as we capture and expand the business.
So we are very focused on it.
Got it.
It’s something that will come but there has got to be a conscious effort to both tie up the land build a program and run a business that’s a little bit different than the core business.
Okay.
Got it.
Great that’s actually very clear.
Thanks very much for that.
The second question I had related to your just another sort of a buyer type it’s the foreign buyer.
I know this isn’t a huge deal for you guys but in certain of your communities particularly on the West Coast and in essence South Florida it’s kind of like hard to not notice that there is an awful lot of concentration for a particular type of buyer that’s not really making it home their homes here in the U.S.
traditionally but they are buying property here in the U.S.
And I was curious as to whether you could just sort of comment on how are you targeting that buyer? Are you just sort of creating communities based on what has sold and this buyer is just sort of coming forward or you have to be specifically marketing to a foreign buyer.
And then maybe as sort of a follow on to that is the -- is there any change given the exchange rate because the Chinese yen had weakened pretty considerably against the dollar recently.
Have you seen anything on the West Coast? I guess it’s a question for Jon.
Yeah Jon why don’t you go ahead and take all of that? Sure.
We’re definitely seeing more demand from the Chinese buyer and offshore buyer.
But you have to really break it down into its bucket Steve.
It’s -- you have those that are U.S.
residents and then you have foreign nationals.
And I’d say that the mix has changed over last year what we’re currently seeing.
You probably have a little bit more weighting towards the foreign national buyer that’s coming in either all cash or 50% down.
We really haven’t seen any change in the demand from that buyer because of currency activity.
It’s stayed pretty healthy and you tend to see it in certain markets.
So at San Francisco in Irvine L.A.
are very strong markets for that buyer profile.
And we do selective marketing to that buyer profile for those markets but we don’t do it for the markets that aren’t as popular for that profile.
Great.
That’s really helpful.
Thanks very much guys.
Our next question is from Robert Wetenhall with RBC Capital Markets.
Go ahead your line is open.
Hi.
This is actually Desi filling in for Bob.
You talked about labor and material costs rising by nearly 10% in the quarter.
You also mentioned that you’ve seen less pressure on the labor side.
So do you expect to continue seeing maybe some relief on labor cost as volumes recover and contractors come back to the market or is that a temporary development? This is Jon.
I think that we’re seeing as the recovery matures the labor force is getting more and more comfortable with hiring and acquiring equipment.
So the labor force we feel is catching up.
I wouldn’t say it’s caught up yet but we’re not seeing as much pressure as we saw before and that’s why we described that’s been easing.
We will still overall costs go up.
As Stuart mentioned certain material categories are going up.
Lumber has gone up slightly in the fourth quarter and first quarter.
We’d expect lumber to go up a little bit more in the second quarter.
So I think you’ll see a moderation of the year-over-year cost increase but think it’d probably be sequentially based on what’s already in our system 3% to 4% higher in our Q2 deliveries over Q1.
I mean that’s slowly coming down sequentially and year-over-year.
Great.
Thanks.
And then getting back to the topic of pursuing land deals with maybe slightly lower gross margins but minimal SG&amp;A outlays.
Are these projects you’ve already started to pursue or is that something you would start to do once the market reaches higher volumes? This is Rick.
This is something that we’ve already started pursuing and that I think are starting against now.
Got it.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jade Rahmani from KBW.
Go ahead your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
Can you provide any color on how land prices have moved over the last quarter and year-to-date.
I noticed you picked up your pace of acquisition and I want to see if you could comment on that.
So on the land acquisition side keep in mind that a fair amount is what we have purchased during the quarter was put under contract several quarters ago and maybe even years ago.
So it’s just the timing as it moves through the snake.
From a pricing standpoint prices have moved up a bit in some markets they have been flat.
It really depends on the flow of activity in the individual markets.
We’re pretty comfortable with where the market is right now.
And as we’ve said in prior calls we benefit from the fact that we’re not primarily looking for immediate delivery type of things.
Jon any flavor from your side? Yeah it’s very market specific.
So if you look at Phoenix it definitely has flattened in that kind of market.
But in Coastal California it continues to be very heated and increases.
But as Rick said we are really well positioned with what we need for next couple of years.
So we tend to be looking at either the short-term quicker turns or more of an entitlement play where we can patrol land for the future and still have healthy margins.
Great.
I appreciate the color.
Just on the Financial Services side I think you noted in the opening remarks about the retail strategy.
You mentioned that could supplement volumes.
Can you discuss that in further detail and what that actually entails? Sure Jade.
Right now in total we have over 90% of our origination or purchase originations.
But we have a retail platform called Eagle Mortgage and it was heavily focused geographically on the West part of the country.
We are looking to open branches and expand that from the West Coast of the country across to the East Coast and expand that platform.
So focusing primarily on purchase business but leveraging our back office and our systems to get more operating leverage on that platform.
So this will be a slow methodical growth program over the next several years.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Okay.
And why don’t we take one last question.
Our last question is from David Goldberg with UBS.
Goldberg go ahead.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks for taking my call.
Very good afternoon.
Hi David.
My first question was on -- actually I wanted to ask a follow-up to a question Eli had asked earlier and Stuart mentioned.
It seem some loosening starting to come through that’s really the first we’ve kind of been hearing from builders with some of the bank efforts to loosen are starting to show up in actual builder result.
I was wondering if you could give us some more color on what is it is it procedural loosening is it credit loosening is it loosening in terms of standards? Can you just give us some increased color on what you meant by the comments and where you have seen it? Actually I think we’ve been hearing it from most of the builders over the past quarters and the loosening has been a gradual very gradual acceptance by the banks that the standards articulated by the GSEs and FHA VA are not going to give rise to put backs.
And where they feel comfortable that there are not going to put backs they have been loosening up some of the overlays that have been in place for some period of time.
Some of this is derived from the just the practical application of the evaporation of the refi market.
As the refi business has dissipated the banks have started to expand their desire to lend this to more primary purchasers as they try to fill the void that’s been left behind by the refi market.
And we’ve seen that over the past year.
Bruce maybe you would like to weigh in on? Sure.
And additionally things like the mortgage insurance market coming back we now have close to 40% of our conventional loan that’s getting mortgage insurance.
So they’re putting down 20% of the tune of that 40%.
So all of these things are small steps but we are seeing it directionally heading in the right direction.
I don’t think you’re going to necessarily see a fixed spike up but all these things are helping on the margins.
We have seen some of the overlays as Stuart said have eliminated.
We are seeing some of the people coming out of the short sale and foreclosure time expiration period.
So the trend is positive with a lot of small steps.
And I think we’ve also heard some of the banks articulate that they’re going to rethink the subprime market and start looking at the other avenues through opening up lending channels.
Right.
They’re going to look to replace that revenue.
They lost the refinance volume like everybody else and they were looking to replace that.
And they’re eliminating the overlays that were put in place both with FICO scores coming down as well as some of the conditions to be able to get loans.
That color is really helpful.
Thank you.
And just a quick follow-up with the move-in to the retail some more retail operations on the mortgage on the finance side can you talk about the regulatory scrutiny you are facing? We have heard from a lot of lenders that they’ve been facing increased regulatory scrutiny including from the CFPB.
Can you talk about costs in the business and if you think being in the retail side increasingly would open you up to more scrutiny as a mortgage originator? Thanks so much.
Sure.
As you know on the regulatory side the increased costs we had already put those in place over the last year or so with respect to more quality control.
So that’s been embedded in our program.
We haven’t seen additional scrutiny.
We follow the right procedures.
I think some of the scrutiny you might be referring to has also been on the servicing side with some companies that have bought large servicing portfolios.
But our program is a methodical program following the same procedures we do on the purchase side.
So we’re not expecting to be in a position that there’s going to be scrutiny on the retail side.
We have a great group of associates with Eagle Mortgage.
We are looking to leverage which worked well for many years for us.
So we’re not expecting any issues there.
Thanks so much.
I appreciate the color.
Very good.
Well that wraps it up for today.
Very happy to report our results for the first quarter and look forward to circling back and reporting on our progress throughout the year.
Thank you for joining us and we will speak soon.
Bye-bye.
Thank you.
That does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to Lennar’s Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
David Collins for the reading of the forward-looking statement.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Today’s conference call may include forward-looking statements including statements regarding Lennar’s business financial condition results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar’s estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could affect future results and may cause Lennar’s actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described in this morning’s press release and our SEC filings including those under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar’s Annual Report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Great.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us for our second quarter update.
This morning I am joined by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; Dave Collins who you have just heard from; and Diane Bessette our Vice President and Treasurer.
Additionally Rick Beckwitt our President Jon Jaffe our Chief Operating Officer are here as is Jeff Krasnoff Chief Executive Officer of Rialto.
And they will be available for Q&amp;A today as well.
Eric Feder isn’t here today but then instead we have Brett Ersoff who runs our RMF Rialto Mortgage Finance Group.
So he is available also.
Now as is customary on our conference calls I want to begin this morning with some brief overview remarks on the housing market and then briefly look at our operations.
And then Bruce is going to provide greater detail.
As always we will open up to question and answers.
And as in the past we would like to request that we limit ourselves to one question and one follow-up per person so that we can leave as much time for people as possible.
So with that let me go ahead and begin.
And let me begin by saying that we are very pleased to report another very solid quarter of performance for our company.
Our second quarter results demonstrate that our company is positioned to be able to continue to perform extremely well in current market conditions due to a carefully crafted operating strategy.
Generally speaking the market continues a slow and steady recovery that is driven by limited supply of available homes both new and existing that are on the market limited supply of land available to add to the supply of these homes and constrained demand from purchasers who would like to buy but are unable to access the mortgage market.
While many investors have been disappointed that the 2014 spring selling season did not have the steep vertical accelerations that had been anticipated the market did continue to move slowly and steadily forward driving volume upward marginally and still driving pricing upward though at a somewhat slower pace.
We continue to believe that the fundamental drivers of improvement in the housing market remain a steadily improving economy with a slowly improving employment picture unlocking pent-up demand while supplies remain constrained to meet that demand.
We continue to believe that there remains a production deficit of both single and multifamily dwellings from the underproduction that took place during the economic downturn and up to and including this year and last.
This shortfall is likely to continue to define the housing markets for the foreseeable future and will drive the housing recovery forward.
Lennar has begun the first half of 2014 with very solid results as each of our businesses showed strong performance and are well-positioned in the thickest part of the market for continued future performance.
The combination of solid management execution of our articulated strategies and strategic investments in core assets have combined to produce strong first half results and will enable continued industry leading performance throughout the year.
Homebuilding of course remains our primary driver of quarterly performance.
For the second quarter homebuilding revenues grew to $1.6 billion up 29% over last year while deliveries were up some 12% over the prior year.
Maximizing our strong land position we focused on balancing pricing power and sales pace while controlling costs and accordingly we produced 14.7% operating margin 140 basis points year-over-year increase and the highest second quarter operating margin in the company’s history.
Our sales pace in Q2 improved to 3.7 average sales per community per month up from Q1’s pace of 2.8 but slightly lower than last year’s pace of 4 per community per month.
Our average sales price of $322 000 was the year-over-year increase of $40 000 or 14% this improvement in sales pace covered increases in labor material and land costs improving our gross margin by the 140 basis points year-over-year to 25.5%.
Our sales continue to benefit from the execution of our NextGen product strategy year-over-year sales of our multi-generational brand grew by 58% totaling 368 sales in our second quarter.
We now offered NextGen plans in 201 communities across the country and in our second quarter the average sales price for NextGen was 39% above the company’s average.
We have continued to focus on homebuilding strategy on the move-up segment of the market as the first time home purchaser has not yet been able to access the mortgage market.
Nevertheless we are strategically positioned with both land and product to capture the first time home buyer demand when it is enabled by the mortgage market and it emerges with inevitable strong and pent up demand.
Now complementing our homebuilding operations our Financial Services segment continued to build its primary business along side the homebuilder and is working to replace the now diminished refi business with additional business across our national footprint.
Bruce will talk a little bit more about our Financial Services progress which had a very respectable quarter with operating earnings of $18.3 million though down from the $29.2 million last year when the refi business was thriving.
While our Homebuilding and Financial Services divisions are the primary drivers of near-term revenues and earnings our three additional operating divisions are all continuing to mature as excellent longer term value creation platforms for the company.
We continue to be very pleased with the progress of our multifamily apartment business.
As we have noted in the past this business began operations in early 2011 and is positioned to become one of the leading developers of new Class A apartments in the United States.
As homeownership rates have drifted downwards and as mortgage approvals have remained elusive for first time purchasers and as the large millennial generation begins to leave home and form households this strategy continues to be an excellent complement to our primary for-sale homebuilding business.
During the second quarter we started development and construction on two additional apartment communities.
We now have 17 communities of which two are completed and operating and two are partially completed and starting a lease-up program and the remaining 13 are under construction.
These communities have approximately 4 500 apartments with an estimated development cost of approximately $1 billion.
In addition to these communities we have a geographically diversified pipeline that exceeds $3 billion and represents an additional 12 000 plus apartments.
As we have discussed in the past we are building these apartments with third-party institutional capital and each deal has been conservatively financed with non-recourse debt.
With our conservative financing and our conservative underwriting we are positioned to earn IRRs exceeding 25% and cash multiples greater than two times.
And we anticipate that the construction of our development pipeline will be completed over the next four years.
Next Rialto continues to make significant progress in transitioning from an asset-heavy balance sheet investor to a capital-light investment manager commercial loan originator and securitizer.
The initial direct investments were able to continue to return capital to Lennar in the second quarter and we believe we’ll return over $400 million of cash for us to recycle by the end of 2016.
Our investment management and servicing platform is growing our assets under management and creating value for investors.
We are continuing to build upon the base established with our first two real estate funds.
Fund II is already – Fund I is already invested or committed.
Fund I is already invested and Fund II is already invested or committed to invest almost $800 million of equity in approximately 60 transactions and has started making distributions of income to investors as well.
We expect to begin raising our third real estate fund later on this year.
And finally Rialto Mortgage Finance our high return on equity lending platform is originating and securitizing long-term fixed rate loans on stabilized cash flow in commercial real estate properties.
And we completed our seventh and eighth securitization transactions in the second quarter selling an additional $400 million of RMF originated loans bringing the total to almost $1.3 billion in only our first three quarters of securitization activity.
In the second quarter Rialto exceeded our expectations with operating results of $13.4 million this quarter reflecting the continued maturity of a three different businesses and its positioning for strong 2014.
Our FivePoint Communities Program continues to make significant progress as well in developing our premium California master plan communities.
At El Toro the first phase of 726 homes is over 75% sold out and the second phase of the 1 000 home sites will be sold to builders around the end of this year or the beginning of next year with a grand opening expected in late spring.
At Newhall Ranch we won two sequel lawsuits as well as an appeal of a lawsuit challenging our environmental permits this quarter.
We expect any appeals to be concluded around the end of the year allowing us to begin development of the first 5 000 home sites there.
And in San Francisco we are opening the shipyard Hunters Point where we are pre-selling homes this quarter and will grand open models in August.
Currently about 250 homes are under construction and another 100 are scheduled to start this year.
The venture will begin delivering these homes at the end of the year and the bulk of them delivering in 2015.
Lastly at Treasure Island we are designing and processing land development engineering with an expectation to break ground in early 2016.
Overall and in summary our company is extremely well-positioned to succeed in current market conditions.
We have an excellent management team that’s focused on a carefully crafted strategy that’s positioned us with an advantaged asset base that will continue to drive industry-leading profitability.
Additionally we have a well-diversified platform that will continue to enhance shareholder value as our ancillary businesses continued to mature.
We are very pleased with our progress and performance and we are very pleased with the progress and performance in the second quarter and look forward to reporting our progress in our third quarter soon.
With that let me turn over to Bruce.
Thanks Stuart and good morning.
Our net earnings for the second quarter were $0.61 per diluted share.
The prior year’s earnings per share included a partial reversal of the state deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $0.18 per diluted share.
The prior year’s EPS would be $0.43 after excluding the $0.18.
Revenues from home sales increased 28% in the second quarter driven by a 12% increase in deliveries and a 14% year-over-year increase in average sales price to $322 000.
In our earnings press release we added additional disclosure by including average selling price by region.
Please refer the press release tables to see this data.
Our gross margin on home sales was 25.5% compared with 24.1% in the prior year.
That’s the 140 basis point improvement that Stuart mentioned.
Sales incentive improved by 80 basis points versus the prior year to 5.9% as a percent of home sales revenue or $20 300 per home delivered in the second quarter.
Additionally we had $9.6 million of insurance recoveries and other non-recurring items which added 60 basis points to the gross margin percentage for the quarter.
The gross margin percentage for the quarter was highest in the East Southeast Florida and West regions.
Selling general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues had additional leverage and improved 10 basis points to 10.8%.
And with the improvement in both gross margin and SG&amp;A our operating margins improved again up 140 basis points to 14.7%.
In addition to this significant operating margin leverage we have also recognized operating leverage in our corporate G&amp;A line which improved 30 basis points to 2.1% as a percentage of total revenues.
Other interest expense declined from $25.1 million in the prior year to $10.3 million in the current quarter as we continued to open communities and increase the qualifying assets eligible for capitalization.
This quarter we opened 95 communities and ended the quarter with 579 net active communities.
We purchased 5 800 home sites during the quarter totaling $379 million.
Our home sites owned and controlled now total 164 000 home sties.
Turning to Financial Services our Financial Services business segment delivered operating earnings of $18.3 million versus $29.2 million in the prior year.
This is consistent with our previous guidance that Financial Services profitability would be lower due to a more competitive environment as a result of a significant decrease in the refinance transactions.
Mortgage pretax income decreased to $16.7 million from $26.1 million in the prior year.
Refinance originations declined 63% from the prior year.
However we were able to replace this loss volume with additional purchase originations to end the quarter with flat year-over-year origination volume at $1.4 billion.
Although the volume is flat the heightened competitive pressure has reduced the profit per loan.
Our in-house capture rate of Lennar homebuyers was 77% this quarter and our title company had a $2.2 million profit in the quarter compared with the $3.7 million profit in the prior year.
The reduction was primarily due to lower volume.
Our Rialto business segment generated operating earnings totaling $13.4 million compared to $2.8 million in the prior year.
Both amounts are a net of non-controlling interest.
The composition of Rialto is $13.4 million of operating earnings by the three types of investments and these are before G&amp;A expenses and Rialto interest expense are as follows.
First the investment management business contributed $28.4 million of earnings.
This includes $17.9 million of equity and earnings from the real estate firms and $10.5 million of management fees and other.
These numbers don’t include the carried interest which under a hypothetical liquidation increased by approximately $14 million for the quarter and is now at $104 million for Real Estate Fund I.
Second our new Rialto mortgage finance operations contributed $438 million of commercial loans into two securitizations resulting in strong earnings of $18.5 million for the quarter.
Third our liquidating direct investments and again these are the remaining assets in the FDIC and bank portfolios had a net loss of $1.6 million.
This included our share of losses in the FDIC portfolio totaling $11.3 million which was primarily due to the share of impairments in the portfolio as a result of loan extensions and modifications extending and reducing the collections while partially offset by higher collections and gains on sales and the bank portfolios.
Rialto G&amp;A and other expenses were $24.3 million for the quarter and interest expense was $7.5 million.
Rialto’s balance sheet had a strong liquidity position with $245 million of cash at quarter end.
Multifamily results for the quarter are consistent with our expectations as we have net startup expenses of $7.2 million.
Turning to our balance sheet our balance sheet liquidity is strong.
We ended the quarter with $638 million of homebuilding cash balances and no outstanding borrowings under our $950 million unsecured revolving credit facility.
Yesterday we announced that we completed an amendment to our credit facility increasing our facility to $1.5 billion which includes $263 million accordion feature.
The amendment increased our borrowing capacity and provided more flexible covenants while lowering our borrowing costs.
We appreciate the support from the 17 banks in our facility.
This revolver increases availability and coupled with our confidence in strong earnings power going forward enables us to continue to deploy more of the cash earning low returns on our balance sheet into high return investments.
Our homebuilding net debt to total capital was 48%.
Stockholders’ equity grew by 23% year-over-year to $4.4 billion this quarter.
Our book value per share increased to $21.52 per share.
There are three adjustments I would like to highlight in our 2014 goals.
Number one deliveries we are maintaining our goal to deliver between 21 000 and 22 000 homes for 2014.
However we are adjusting our backlog conversion ratio expectations between Q3 and Q4.
We are adjusting Q3 to between 75% and 80% backlog conversion ratio due to the first quarter weather delays pushing some home completion dates into the fourth quarter.
However as a result we are increasing our expected conversion ratio for the fourth quarter to between 95% and 100% conversion of the backlog.
Second gross margins we continue to expect our gross margins in 2014 to average 25% for the full year.
And this excludes the insurance settlements highlighted in both the first and second quarter.
We expect the third quarter to be in the high 24% range while the fourth quarter should be just slightly over 25%.
Turning to Rialto we expect a range of profits still in the $30 million to $40 million range for the year.
We expect a similar trend as we look at the second half of this year to the prior year with the third quarter delivering lower profits than the fourth quarter.
We expect the timing of our Rialto Mortgage Finance securitizations to be more heavily weighted to the fourth quarter.
And let me just reiterate the reminder of our previously stated goals for 2014.
We continue to expect approximately 25 basis points of potential improvement for SG&amp;A for all of 2014 over 2013.
Financial Services is still expected to be in the range of $65 million to $75 million of operating earnings.
Our multifamily operations are still expecting startup losses of $15 million to $20 million which includes one or two apartment community sales later this year.
We are not expecting any significant joint venture or land sale activity in 2014 and these categories should be about breakeven.
We haven’t changed our tax rate expectations for the year at 37% and our net community count is still expected to end the year in the range of 600 to 625 communities.
With that let me turn it over back to the operator for any of your questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Please limit your questions to one question and one follow-up.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Adam Rudiger from Wells Fargo.
Go ahead sir.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I was wondering if you could talk about community count by segment a little bit and just saw some of the trends there you had some pretty divergent absorption paces across your different segments so I just wanted to try to understand what was occurring in those a little bit better? Hi it’s Jon Jaffe.
We saw our community count growth the greatest in California and Texas followed by Nevada and Colorado and it was a little slower this quarter in the East and then our Houston regions.
Okay.
And then second question was on incentives they have been relatively flat for four quarters in a row now roughly 6%ish do you think that’s where they will stabilize or do you think there is more room for that to fall in the future? This is Jon again.
I think as we came out of the first quarter and we saw our sales pace pickup from 2.8 sales per month to 3.7 we found we didn’t have to use any additional incentives to achieve that sales pace and to maintain our margins.
And we will continue to operate that way on a community by community basis.
And it’s as expected the market continues the slow and steady growth.
You should expect that our incentive should be in that range.
Okay thanks for taking my questions.
Our next question comes from Dan Oppenheim of Credit Suisse.
Go ahead.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks very much.
I was wondering I guess first in terms of the comments there on margins for the third and fourth quarter is some of that driven by sort of the changes also in terms of backlog conversion and sort of some operating leverage there or is there an expectation that sort of absent those issues just that margins will be higher in the fourth quarter than the third? This is Rick.
We generally throughout the year see a progression in our margins from Q1 to Q4.
Some of it has to do with what has been left in backlog that hasn’t converted as you pointed out.
Typically as we move through the year we can push pricing but our ability to raise prices is starting to slowdown given that the significant ramp up year-over-year in ASPs.
Okay thanks.
And then I guess the second question would be we've have heard some other companies talk about somewhat favorable trends in March or relatively favorable for a bit of slowing in April and May is that consistent with what you saw as the quarter went on? With regard to sequential improvement April was our least.
It was sort of the slowest month but not dramatically different than March and May.
May was the strongest month on a year-over-year basis.
Okay thank you.
The next question comes from Stephen East of ISI Group.
Go ahead sir.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Congratulations guys.
Stuart you talked a little bit about balancing out pace versus price.
And if you look at what’s going on in some of the demand trends regionally Houston jumps out at you Southeast Florida and California.
I was wondering what was going on in some of those key markets from a demand perspective and how you all are looking at pricing? Has pricing gone too far? I noticed three of your regions were down quarter-over-quarter on pricing.
So just trying to understand those relationships? Let me start and then I will ask Jon and Rick to kind of jump in also relative to specific markets but overall Steve I’ve said a number of times that I think it’s really relevant that rental rates continue to run higher than fully loaded monthly payments on for-sale product and rental rates have continued to move up.
So there seems to be kind of a push on pricing across kind of the platform.
And it’s moving in fits and starts a little bit as you go through the course of the year.
And so it’s really incumbent on us and other builders as well to just carefully manage and stay close to the market as it relates to balancing pricing and pace.
As noted there is not a lot of land available to replace communities that are depleted.
So as rental rates are moving it’s kind of dictating a little bit where pricing is going on the for-sale side of the business.
The for-sale side could probably ramp up volume a lot more if it held pricing back but the replacement of communities is very difficult.
Land values as you know are stronger than they have been so that balance of pace and price is a very local matter each market is a little bit different.
But if you take kind of a 30 000 foot view the general trend is still towards the upside.
And this is Jon Steve.
I would add that even within markets sub-markets can be very different and we do watch this balance very carefully community by community.
But as you noted our California was up both in – our growth in community count and sales pace and margin and that market has definitely felt stronger during the quarter than some other markets.
Florida Southeast Florida was also up in average sales price year-over-year not so much in community count.
So we just managed those differently based on what we see in the marketplace based on what we are bringing online.
And also the overall market growth in the community count.
So for example Phoenix which we all know was softer had tremendous community count growth in the overall marketplace with sort of flattish activity and that’s why you saw sales pace drop in the Phoenix and accordingly you didn’t see any price appreciation there.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And Stuart you mentioned about land buying and it makes it a bit tougher.
As you look at your house price appreciation stagnates in all of that what are you seeing as the implications on the land side and what you are seeing that pencils that type of thing and are you now at the point where entry level land is becoming more and more of a focus as you move forward? Well look I think you always have to keep in mind that land value is a residual of what you can build on it.
Land values don’t really just move aggressively on their own sometimes they get ahead of themselves just like any other pricing mechanism.
But at the end of the day it’s all a residual calculation of what you are going to be able to build on the land what market is going to desire a particular location that’s going to drive what products you build on the land and what you can afford to pay for it.
And ultimately land prices find their way to that kind of equilibrium.
So on a market by market basis and within markets in particular locations land prices move sometimes with momentum and pull back a little bit.
It’s been my experience and I think it’s the experience in the marketplace today that we are able to continue to purchase land for a product that is going be able to be built on that land.
And whether it’s for first-time buyers maybe a little farther out from the best locations or whether it’s for the move-up buyer in the A locations it really comes down to a residual calculation.
Rick maybe you could add some color to that.
Yes I think in your response – the other thing I would point out Steve is that we continued to be contracting and tying up parcels one year two years out so we still have the ability to buy on a wholesale basis.
If you look at our land cost as a percentage of ASP it stayed relatively constant in that 20% to 21% of sales price which allows to have a really strong margin.
We noticed in the quarter that our land development spend increased pretty significantly on a year-over-year basis.
And that’s really the – that’s really evidencing the fact that we have got some land and we tied up or moving that through the process right now which gives us a lot of confidence that our margins are going to be holding up pretty good.
At the end of the day as you see home prices move up you are probably seeing land prices move up.
If land prices move up with a little bit more momentum and home prices stagnate those land prices are going to drift back downward ultimately as well.
So I think that our margins able to still strive even as home prices might not be accelerating quite as much as they were.
Okay.
Thank you.
I appreciate that.
Our next question comes from Eli Hackel of Goldman Sachs.
Go ahead sir.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
First question just wanted to focus on multifamily for a minute pipeline continues to grow pretty aggressively you said you would be able to be a little bit more consistent I guess in the second half of next year.
I was wondering what was driving that were you able to find the long-term land partner are these buildings already sold and that what gives you the confidence.
And I just wanted to confirm I know in the past you said you are able to generally get maybe 150 basis point spread from the build to self cap rate is that still generally the case? Yes.
This is Rick.
I think what gives us the visibility in the consistency of the earnings going into the back half of 2015 really stems from when we started our communities.
As Stuart highlighted in his opening remarks today we have about 17 communities that are either complete two of which are completed the rest of which are under some stage of construction.
As we look at the balance of this year we will probably start an additional 20 communities plus or minus and that gives you the sort of a runway with regard to how long it takes to build lease them up and stabilize and then potentially sell them.
So we know when we have started and we will see where the lease up progression is and that allows us to really track the building cycle and when we can sale up.
Let me add to that and say I think about our apartment business as kind of a manufacturing plant.
It has a fairly long lead time in production and the startup period which we are going through now takes probably 2.5 years to from start to stabilization and sale of an apartment community.
The startup period has been a couple of years in the making.
We are just getting to the point where we’re delivering our first few coming off the assembly line.
And as we get to the back half of 2015 we started to have enough product that has been started is in the pipeline and is moving through in orderly fashion to where we are going to be able to refine the visibility that we can bring from this part of our company.
Now the long lead time in today’s market where rental rates have been moving up fairly aggressively and it seems like they are going to continue to really reflects on our initial underwriting having been low and our execution likely to be very strong.
And the second part of your question was yield on cost versus exit cap.
We are still targeting that 150 basis point to 200 basis points.
Great that’s extremely helpful.
And then just quickly one follow up Stuart just want to get your latest thoughts on lending standards and maybe what you are seeing over the past couple of months suppose maybe now what’s speeches you have talked to some of friends in the banking sector? Lending standards are still tight.
It’s going to be interesting to see how the change in leadership at the FHFA is going to actually translate to the market.
We still have the stickiness I think of a banking and mortgage banking industry that is having difficulty getting over the penalty phase of the downturn that we have endured and that penalty Phase is really relevant and because to the extent that people see or they put back risk is great and really political and social risk is also great meaning reputational risk it’s hard for the lenders to get back in the business lending on a rational and reverted to normal kind of underwriting standard.
I have listened to a number of people speak recently from various parts of the government and there is this kind of consistent reframe that we need to loosen mortgage standards.
But we don’t want to go back to the excesses of 2006.
Every time I hear that we don’t want to go back to excesses of 2006 the fact that they throw that caveat in there is reflective of the fact that they don’t realize just how far field we are from that.
And that reversion to normal is indeed even close to them.
And so I feel that that’s still an impediment to a big move and opening up liquidity in the mortgage market.
I think it’s going to be a slow after margin adjustment that’s going to take place over time.
Now on the negative side it means it’s going to be difficult to really liberate the first time homebuyer and get them back into the marketplace.
On the positive side relative to us people need a place to live and our rental program still looks very attractive to us.
That’s extremely helpful.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from David Goldberg of UBS.
Go ahead sir.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
I appreciate guys taking the call and good morning.
I am – I wanted to ask a bit of a theoretical question I guess and it’s delving a little bit into the comments that you made Stuart about being well-positioned for when the entry level comes back and having the right land position to meet that buyer segment? And what I am trying to figure out is there is so much uncertainty about what the entry level coming back is going to look like? And I am trying to figure out how you underwrite land positions accordingly.
I mean we don’t know what price is going to look like we don’t know what absorptions are going to look like.
And so I am just trying to get an idea as you do buy new land that focuses on the entry level where you don’t necessarily have great comps in kind of nearby communities how do you think about risk control in that environment? I am going to turn this over to Rick and then Jon because they have in their areas really crafted our land strategy.
And we have navigated these waters pretty well to-date thinking about where the market is going and crafting a land strategy to that.
And likewise relative to a first time homebuyer strategy I think that they have been completely on top of this and thinking it through comprehensively.
So Rick why don’t you start? Okay.
It really has to do with price and affordability and commuting corridors if you will.
We have taken a very not aggressive but thoughtful path in tying up a bunch of property that we could ultimately build on.
So most of the stuff that we are talking about is smaller it’s money deposits where we have tied up parcels of land some of which is finished some of which is would need to be developed with an aim towards building relatively low-priced homes in those markets for the first-time buyer.
We know where the commuting path will be.
We have a good idea of how far they want to drive.
They aren’t in the heart of where our current communities are because the land isn’t priced accordingly.
And we have just done a lot of market research to see where things would comp out and appraise and more importantly focused on what we need to put into the homes to construct them at a price to sell them to them at a good value but that’s essentially what we have been doing.
And then in the West David it’s a strategy really leads us to the product that we have been focusing on because the price of the land tends to be a lot higher.
There isn’t the quick availability like Arizona Texas where the strategy is well-executed that Rick articulated for that land.
So that the market the thick part of the market is really the move-up market today and that’s where our land buying strategy has been focused.
And we keep a very close eye on the tertiary markets which will feed that first time buyer market as to what’s available and how to bring it on but we are not really taking the risk today and until that market presents itself as more viable.
So I think what you heard in my comments is we are fully aware that there is a first time homebuyer market out there that is waiting to be able to be activated.
It is dependent on mortgage lending standards opening up kind of reverting to normal.
We have recognized that once it’s activated it is a market that has a great deal of pent-up demand.
We also recognized that today’s millennial generation has not yet quite defined itself.
Is it going to be focused on something that’s more in the middle the city focused or are they going to be building their family by getting married and having children maybe a little bit later in life but nonetheless still looking for suburban lifestyle.
We have developed a land strategy that’s really crafted on creating as much optionality for ourselves in that space as possible looking at different alternatives and preparing products for when that market presents itself.
But with that said we are focused on a current basis on the deepest thickest part of the market which is the first time move up and regular move up buyer and we stand ready to address the first-time buyer as they are activated.
Thank you for the color.
That’s very helpful.
As a follow-up I was wondering if you guys can talk about cycle times and I guess the question as you know with the weather-related delays and some of the push in closings to fourth quarter are you finding opportunities to cut cycle times in more of a flat market now relative to where we were – when we were maybe growing a little bit more quickly? Hi this is Jon David.
I don’t think that the weather really affected cycle times it did push things out.
I would say what we are seeing as the markets mature is cycle time is flattening.
In some places we are able to improve it a little bit and in some places it might slide a little bit.
Labor varies by market as well and most of our markets labor is stabilized which allows us to stabilize the cycle time and in Texas we have seen a lot of activity labor is tighter and so it’s a little bit harder there.
So really the market by market issue is a big focus of our company cycle time from a perspective of the quality of the home and the quality of process for our homebuyers.
And we are trying to find ways to be more efficient but in general I would say it’s just pretty stable out there.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ivy Zelman of Zelman &amp; Associates.
Go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Good quarter.
Stuart you talked about the demographics and short-term strategy with multifamily being obviously another say tool in your tool box and I believe you told me at one point that maybe Rialto you had several hundred units that were single-family rented I am wondering what your view on single-family rental is given the more cautious view you have of the renting environment normalizing and whether or not that would be an added part of your growth strategy going forward as you appreciate the deficit in shelter? Well first of all yes.
We probably had single-family rentals through our Rialto distress portfolios before the rest of market really focused on it.
And we had a real opportunity to look at how scattered single-family homes would rent and how they would be managed and of course that business has taken off and it’s been a very successful part of some large fund managers operations and programs going forward.
I still think that there are complications in managing a diverse array of products and buildings that are located in scattered locations.
But given the fact that we have a long-term production deficit in this country in terms of the amount of homes multi and single-family homes that have been delivered over the past few years since we went into the downturn and we kind of estimate that that’s about $4 million in deficit over the past few years.
It seems to me that all product types high tide is rising out both all product types are going to continues to do okay and be pretty strong simply because there is a demand for places for people to live and there is a scarcity of that shelter.
So the single-family rental opportunity is a good one.
I think it’s difficult to manage.
But it’s highly highly desirable for people who are growing families and need a place to live.
The desire to live in the single-family dwelling is very attractive and the inability to get a mortgage augers in favor of renting versus purchasing.
So even with the difficulty of management that business is strong.
Our apartment business we think is a very strong business.
It’s easier and efficient to manage.
We think that our bottom line is going be very strong.
And whether there is an opportunity in the future to do single-family for rent is something that we have looked at it’s something that we are considering and we will see as we go forward.
I think a little bit of that and the answer to that will depend on how the mortgage market evolves in the near-term.
You know that it’s my view that it’s evolving fairly slowly.
I know that there are those including yourself Ivy that think that it might be coming on a little bit faster.
And I leave a lot of room for that to possibly play out more the way other see it than the way that I see it but if it doesn’t then I think the single-family development for rent might become a part of our program going forward.
Great that’s very helpful.
I guess my second question really pertains to the level of incremental supply that’s coming through the top MSAs where you compete and maybe Jon or Rick can comment on this question? There has been a lot of concern about the level of supply in Phoenix and the pressure that we have seen given the softness in sales and level of pricing pressure.
Are there other markets that you think are at risk or do you think there was more of anomaly that Phoenix had some specific drivers that mitigate that in other markets sort of similarly following I know Stuart you have commented very very eloquently that there is a very significant deficit of supply but we do have a lot of growth from the industry as they have loaded up their pipelines with developed lots that they are now going to be opening double-digit increases throughout the builder community for new stores.
So are there any markets that you think that will be following Phoenix’s slowing? I think Phoenix was somewhat of an outlier Ivy.
In that you had as you know significant price appreciation in the prior year and it led to a lot of activity of bringing new communities online at a time where that price depreciation couldn’t be sustained and volume did not pick up as expected.
And I think there are some political factors in Arizona that affected that as well that slowed down job growth from where we thought it was going to be.
Don’t see those kind of dynamics in other places.
And in the West it’s not so easy to bring land on fast.
I really don’t see that in Texas where you can bring land on a little quicker the absorptions are really kept pace and the job growth is really strong.
So I think in a market like Texas they don’t see that risk either.
Can I sneak in one quick one just on absorption pace you said 3.7 I think you said slow and steady recovery Stuart.
What’s the right – what would be this right number for us to think of a normal pace per community because we used to think 3.5 to 4 was normal? Yes.
I think historically 3.5 to 4 is kind of the normal zone but I think that 1.5 million starts per year is the normal zone also and there are lot of normal historical patterns that we are not seeing right now.
I think going back to your prior question and answering this one as well I think we have got to think in terms of ebb and flow in the market – in the market that we are in.
We are going to see markets that get a little ahead of themselves.
Pricing is an area that starts to move very quickly and you end up with sticker shock that can be coincident pricing and interest rate sticker shock as interest rates move back and forth.
Purchasers in certain markets might find that they want to purchase but they just can’t get over the sticker shock for a period of time.
I still think that the dominant theme is production deficit.
And over time I think there was going to be an evening a reversion back to some of the more normal trends like a 3.5 to 4 homes per community per month absorption rate but I think that we are still going to see it ebb and flow as markets kind of find their way to slow steady recovery but pricing gets ahead of itself or desirability falls off for a period of time.
And we will just have to kind of wade our way through some of these numbers.
Okay thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Jade Rahmani of KBW.
Go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks for taking the questions.
Do you expect the pace of year-over-year orders growth to pickup in the back half since comps get somewhat easier than what we have seen in the first half? We would expect that would likely be the case Jade but we’ll have to wait and see how the market unfolds.
Okay thanks.
Switching to Rialto I just want to find out if you could comment on the timing of recognizing the carried interest into income? And also if you could comment on what drove the sequential pickup in joint venture income? The carried interest Jade we would expect to be able to book that once it’s served in which is when it comes in which we still expect on Fund I to be out in the 2016 timeframe at the earliest.
Yes this is Jeff.
I would confirm that 2016/2017 before they start coming in.
And then what drove the joint venture income was the fair value in the funds that’s coming from our real estate funds primarily.
So each quarter we go through a fair value and whatever that increase in value is is booked through the equity and the earnings line.
Yes.
And the fair value includes actual operating earnings as well from the ventures.
So it’s really the bottom line of the ventures and it’s our share of the – as a limited partner in those ventures and we had a good couple of quarters.
Okay.
So it’s essentially your 15% interest in the funds? Yes it’s less than that.
It’s about 11% in the first fund and about 8% in the second fund.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And in difference of those who want to watch the soccer game I think it starts at noon doesn’t it? I think we will take one more question.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank.
Go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
This is Rob Hansen on for Nishu.
You mentioned limited land availability in the release and so I wanted to see if you could walk us through what you meant by that? Is this in specific geographic areas or is this like infill or are you talking about developed lots some further clarity on that would be great? Sure.
I think that it’s been well-documented that as we went through the downturn just like the homebuilders were impaired every land developer or land purchaser found their positions to be impaired and the downturn basically shutdown all entitlement and development activity.
And of course you don’t just restart that engine development and entitlement take years especially in your most desirable markets.
It actually takes years and it takes capital.
So there has been some land that has come back to the marketplace but the entitlement process and the development process has been very slow to start.
Those that are well-capitalized can engage these processes but there have been fewer groups primarily the large homebuilders that do have the capital to undertake undeveloped land and get that land position for actually getting building permits.
Smaller landowners historically active developers have not been able to get engaged in the financing market and therefore have not assumed their traditional role of developing land that’s available for builders to be able to build.
So land continues to be tight across the country particularly in the markets where land entitlement is most constrained as places like California places like Florida the entire Eastern seaboard number of places it’s very hard to get land activity up and running again.
And that’s what produces the constraint.
And the land of course that is available and is developed or entitled becomes much more expensive because there is a shortage and a need to build in some of those areas.
Thanks.
And one other question I had was since you guys are uniquely positioned to be you have the single-family and the multifamily perspectives what are your thoughts on the share of multifamily as a percentage of overall starts going forward? As firstly we kind of meet a mid-cycle level call it maybe 1.5 million in a few years do you think that the multifamily side is going to have a greater share than in prior cycles or do you think that kind of what’s going on now with rents rising at a fairly rapid pace that’s going to kind of die out at a certain point and then you were going to have a much of kind of a normal single-family percentage of total starts kind of call it mid-cycle? I think it’s an interesting question and we are all going to have to stay tuned.
Right now multifamily is making up about a third of all starts which is an historical high but realistically multifamily is operating or trending to exactly its traditional zone of 300 000 to 400 000 starts per year.
It’s just that single-family is awfully low right now.
And so we are as an industry we are going to have to wait and see a lot of it depends on how the mortgage market evolves and whether it begins to enable the buyer to come back to the market especially the first time buyer to come back to the market.
As things stand right now if you think about the math we have trended in homeownership from a high of 69.2% homeownership rate down to something like a 64.7% homeownership rate.
And every 1 percentage point move in homeownership rate translates into 1.3 million households either doubling up or looking for a rental.
So we have shifted a lot of demand away from for-sale and into the rental housing market.
Some have articulated the belief that the homeownership rate will continue to fall.
There are some outliers that say that it could fall as low as 55% I don’t believe that but whether it continues to trend the percentage point of the time we will have to wait and see but that will define the percentage of total starts that are multifamily or primarily rental versus for-sale.
Thanks.
We appreciate the perspectives.
Okay.
Alright well thanks everyone for joining us for our second quarter update.
We look forward to joining you again for third quarter results.
And this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to Lennar’s Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to David Collins for the reading of the forward-looking statement.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Today’s conference call may include forward-looking statements including statements regarding Lennar’s business financial condition results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar’s estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could affect future results and may cause Lennar’s actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described in this morning’s press release and our SEC filings including those under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar’s Annual Report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Great.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us for our third quarter update.
This morning I’m joined by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; Dave Collins who you just heard from; and Diane Bessette our Vice President and Treasurer.
Additionally our President Rick Beckwitt is here and Jeff Krasnoff our Chief Executive Officer of Rialto; and Jon Jaffe our Chief Operating Officer is on the phone from California and they’ll join in on the Q&amp;A.
As is customary on our conference calls I want to begin this morning with some brief overview remarks on the housing market and our operations in particular.
Then Bruce is going to give greater detail.
We will then open up for question and answer and we’d like to request that during our Q&amp;A each person please limit themselves to one question and one follow up.
So let me go ahead and begin and let me begin by saying that we’re very pleased to report another very solid quarter of performance for our company with profitability in each of our major segments.
Our third quarter results demonstrate that our company is positioned to be able to continue to perform extremely well in current market conditions due to a carefully crafted and balanced operating strategy.
Generally speaking the market has continued a slow and steady recovery that is markedly different from past down cycle recoveries.
History would suggest a more vertical recovery especially given the severity of the economic decline.
This recovery has been a decidedly different experience as the slope of recovery has been shallow and the expected acceleration has not materialized.
While this is generally the case for the overall economy it is very much the case for housing in particular.
The housing recovery has been moving gently upward in a fairly narrow channel with movement up and down along the way.
That channel has been downside supported by the significant production deficit that has resulted from the extremely low volumes of dwelling both single family and multifamily that have been built over the past seven years.
Before this downturn anything below 1 million housing starts in a year was considered almost a housing depression.
This recovery is just now getting us back to that level of starts.
We’re still adding to a deficit in production given the housing needs of the country and that in our opinion limits the downside for the recovery going forward.
At the same time the recovery has been and likely will continue to be upside constrained by a limited supply of available homes new and existing on the market limited supply of land available to add to the supply of homes and constrained demand from purchasers who would like to buy but are unable to access the mortgage market.
While many investors have been disappointed that 2014 sales to date did not develop the steep vertical acceleration that they had anticipated the market did continue to move slowly and steadily forward driving volume upwards and still driving price upward though at a somewhat slower pace.
I would suggest that this is a very healthy and comfortable environment for the well-capitalized national builders and for Lennar in particular.
The shallow slope of recovery is likely to provide a steady backdrop for market share expansion in a fragmented industry and an extended recovery duration for those who are able to participate by leveraging a strong capital base.
We continue to believe that the fundamental drivers of improvement in the housing market remain a steadily improving economy with a slowly improving employment picture unlocking pent-up demand while supplies remain constrained to meet that demand.
We continue to believe that there remains a production deficit and that this shortfall will continue to define the housing market for the foreseeable future and will drive the housing recovery forward.
A slow and steady housing recovery will also continue to benefit the rental market as first-time home purchasers find limited access to the for sale market barred by higher down payments very strict underwriting standards invasive approval processes and increasing fee structures from the government and banks.
This will likely continue to put upward pressure on rental rates and drive valuation for rental properties upward as well.
Lennar has navigated the first three quarters of 2014 with very solid results as each of our businesses showed strong performance and are well positioned for continued future performance.
A combination of solid management execution of our articulated strategies and strategic investments in core assets combine to produce strong results and will enable continued industry-leading performance throughout the year.
Homebuilding of course remains the primary driver of our quarterly performance.
Lennar’s strategy was to carefully balance pricing power sales incentives brokerage commissions and advertising spend to maximize our results.
The execution of this strategy produced 23% sales growth 25.2% gross margins and a 14.8% operating margin.
Homebuilding revenues grew to $1.8 billion up 25% over last year while deliveries were 5 457 homes up 9% over the prior year.
Our sales pace in the third quarter were 3.3 sales per community per month and this was basically flat with 2013 second quarter pace of 3.2.
Our average sales price increased by 14% year-over-year to $332 000.
During the quarter we opened 73 new communities and closed out 49 communities to end at 603 active communities a 17% year-over-year increase.
Q3’s SG&amp;A was 10.4% a 20 basis point year-over-year increase.
We did not benefit from much operating leverage this quarter as the cost of opening new communities cost associated with developing our new Internet site and digital platform for marketing and some additional advertising and brokerage fees associated with the competitive landscape added to SG&amp;A.
Nevertheless we continue to expect to benefit significantly from SG&amp;A leverage as we grow volume in the future.
With many of our competitors offering large incentives to drive sales we controlled our incentives at a 5.8% rate for the quarter which was down year-over-year and sequentially from 6% and 5.9% respectively.
In place of increasing incentives across the board we strategically used them on specific communities where we thought the sales pace was a little slow and we selectively marketed more aggressively to both the brokerage community and to consumers on communities as needed.
The net result was an absorption pace that was flat with last year combined cost of SG&amp;A and incentives that were also flat with last year and a 30 basis point improvement in our gross margin.
Year-over-year labor and material costs are up 8.5% to around $49 per square foot.
This represents a mild slowing of the pace of cost increases as last quarter cost were up more than 9% over the year.
These increases are both labor and material increases and the break down between labor and material is about 40% labor and 60% material which has not changed materially in the past few years.
Our sales continue to benefit from the execution of our next-gen product strategy.
Year-over-year sales of our multigenerational brand grew by 24% totaling 275 sales in the third quarter.
We now offer next-gen plans in 208 communities across the country and in the third quarter the average sales price for next-gen was about 34% above the company’s average.
We continue to focus our homebuilding strategy on the move-up segment of the market as the first-time home purchaser has not yet been able to access the mortgage market.
With that said we currently sell approximately 30% of our homes to first-time purchasers and we remain strategically positioned with both land and product to capture the first-time homebuyer demand when it is enabled by the mortgage market and it emerges with the inevitable strong and pent-up demand that we expect.
Complementing our homebuilding operations of course our financial services segment continued to build its primary business alongside the homebuilder.
Bruce will talk a little bit more about our financial services progress which had a very respectable quarter with operating earnings of 27.1 million compared to 23.5 million last year.
While our homebuilding and financial services divisions are the primary drivers of near-term revenues and earnings our three additional operating divisions are all continuing to mature as excellent longer term value creation platforms alongside.
Let me start here by saying a hearty welcome and congratulations to our multifamily group.
This quarter marks the first sales of multifamily communities to third parties and the first profit contribution to the company from this segment.
We couldn’t be more pleased with these results and the excellent management team that drives this business.
During the third quarter we sold two apartment communities totaling 580 apartments and generated a $14.7 billion profit from those communities which translated into an $8.5 million profit for the segment after overheads.
Each of these sales exceeded our targeted 25% return on invested capital and 2x cash multiple.
These sales demonstrate the earnings potential of a maturing business as we develop our geographically diversified $5 billion pipeline.
During the third quarter we started development and construction on four new communities.
We now have 19 communities in production of which one is completed and operating two are partially completed and starting a lease-up program and the remaining 16 are under construction.
These 19 communities have approximately 4 800 apartments with an estimated development costs of approximately $1.15 billion.
As we have discussed in the past we’re building these apartments with third party institutional capital and each deal has been conservatively financed with non-recourse debt.
Given the construction schedule of these units and the rest of our pipeline our multifamily segment will become a more predictable source of quarterly earnings starting in late 2015 and into 2016.
In the third quarter Rialto produced operating results of $12.4 million reflecting continued progress and transitioning from an asset-heavy balance sheet investor to a capital-light investment manager and commercial loan originator and securitizer.
Rialto has now returned $385 million of invested capital to the parent company since late last year and we expect to generate at least another $250 million of cash in Rialto from initial investments for us to recycle by the end of 2016.
Our investment management and servicing platform is growing assets under management and had the strong asset base from which to harvest value for investors and for our company.
We’re continuing to build upon the base established with our first two real estate funds.
Fund I was fully invested in early 2013 and only 18 months later has returned some 80% of invested capital from income and monetization.
Fund II has already invested or committed to invest approximately $1 billion of equity in almost 70 transactions and also continues to make distributions of income to investors.
We still have over $600 million of equity to invest and expect to begin raising our third real estate fund later this year.
Additionally Rialto mortgage finance our high return equity lending platform is originating and securitizing long-term fixed rate loans on stabilized cash flow in commercial real estate properties.
During the quarter we completed our ninth securitization transaction selling almost $300 million of RMF originated loans maintaining our strong margins and bringing the total to almost $1.7 billion in only our first four quarters of operations.
Our FivePoint Communities program continues to make significant progress in developing our premium California master-planned communities.
At El Toro the first phase of 726 homes is over 80% sold out and the second phase of 1 000 homes will be sold to builders in the beginning of next year with a grand opening expected in the late spring.
In San Francisco we’ve opened the shipyard where we’re pre-selling homes this quarter and are just now grand opening models.
Currently about 250 homes are under construction with another 100 scheduled to start and the venture will begin delivering these homes in 2015.
So overall and in summary our company is extremely well positioned to thrive in the current market conditions.
The shallow slope of recovery with what we believe will be an extended duration provides an excellent backdrop for our management team to drive our business forward pick up market share and product excellent results.
We have an excellent management team that is focused on a carefully crafted strategy that has positioned us with advantage assets that will continue to drive profitability in our core homebuilding and financial service business lines.
Additionally we have a well diversified platform that will continue to enhance shareholder value as our ancillary businesses continue to mature.
Today we’re very proud to share with you our results for the first three quarters of this year and we look forward to sharing our further progress at year end.
With that let me turn it over to Bruce.
Thanks Stuart and good morning.
Our net earnings for the third quarter were $0.78 per diluted share versus $0.54 per share in the prior year.
I’m going to review some of the financial highlights starting with homebuilding.
Revenues from home sales increased 25% in the third quarter and that was driven by a 10% increase in deliveries that includes unconsolidated entities and a 14% year-over-year increase in average sales price to 332 000.
Our gross margin on home sales was 25.2% which was up 30 basis points.
Our excellent land position continues to be an important driver of our strong gross margins and as Stuart mentioned sales incentives improved by 20 basis points year-over-year.
The gross margin percentage for the quarter remained highest in the East Southeast Florida and West regions while all other regions also improved their gross margin percentage year-over-year.
In addition to improving our gross margins we continued to carefully manage our inventory as we reduced our completed unsold inventory sequentially from the second quarter from 905 homes to 862 homes.
In addition to the operating margin leverage that we received in the quarter and Stuart went through the SG&amp;A discussion we have also recognized operating leverage on our corporate G&amp;A line.
That improved 20 basis points to 2.1% as a percent of total revenues.
Our interest expense continues to decline.
It came down from 22.2 million in the third quarter of last year to 8.4 million in the current quarter as we continued to open communities and increase the qualifying assets that are eligible for capitalization.
This quarter we opened 73 communities and ended the quarter with 603 active communities.
We purchased approximately 5 400 home sites during the quarter totaling 273 million and now our home sites owned and controlled totaled 166 000 of which 136 000 are owned and 30 000 are controlled.
Our financial services business segment increased operating earnings to 27.1 million from 23.5 million in the prior year.
The increased earnings occurred despite a continued challenging mortgage market with decreasing refinanced transactions.
Our mortgage pre-tax income increased to 20.6 million from 18.8 million in the prior year although refinance originations continued to decline and now represent only 9% of total originations we were successful in replacing this lost volume with increased purchase originations.
As a result our mortgage originations increased 1.7 billion from 1.4 billion in the prior year.
Our in-house mortgage capture rate of Lennar homebuyers was 77% this quarter and our title company’s profit increased to 7.1 million in the quarter from 5.2 million of profit in the prior year.
This was primarily due to higher profit per transaction and our title team’s focus on maximizing the title capture rate with our ancillary business transactions.
Our Rialto business segment generated operating earnings totaling 12.4 million compared to 1.5 million in the prior year both are net of non-controlling interest and the composition of that 12.4 million in the three types of investments before G&amp;A are as follows.
First the investment management business contributed 35.3 million of earnings which includes 20 million of equity and earnings from the real estate funds and 15.3 million of management fees and other.
These numbers don’t include the carried interest which under hypothetical liquidation increased by approximately 19 million for the quarter and is now at 123 million for real estate Fund I.
Again that profit is not booked until we receive cash flow and their certainty with those numbers.
Second our new Rialto mortgage finance operations contributed 292 million of commercial loans into one securitization resulting in earnings of 13.1 million for the quarter before their G&amp;A expenses.
Third our liquidating direct investments which are the remaining assets in the FDIC and bank portfolios had a net loss of 3 million which was primarily due to our share of impairments in the FDIC portfolios as we continue to focus on accelerating the monetization of certain assets in these portfolios and those numbers are partially offset by gains on sales of real estate and interest income.
Rialto G&amp;A and other expenses were 25.6 million for the quarter and interest expense was 7.5 million.
The interest again primarily relates to the 350 million of senior notes and the Rialto subsidiary.
Rialto had a strong liquidity position with over 200 million of cash at quarter end.
Stuart went through the numbers on multifamily.
Again we had 8.5 million net profit in that segment which was 14.7 million for the first two apartment community sales and then the G&amp;A net of management fees was approximately 6.5 million.
Our investment in the multifamily segment is approximately 160 million as we continue to grow this business primarily using third party capital.
The tax rate for the quarter came down.
It was 33.3%.
This quarter we were successful as we were favorably impacted by the settlement of the state tax exam and additional energy tax credits.
We expect the tax rate for the fourth quarter to be around 36% as we start to receive the full benefit of the domestic activities reduction deduction which is Section 199 now that we have fully utilized our federal net operating loss carryforwards.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Our balance sheet liquidity is strong as we ended the third quarter with 542 million of homebuilding cash and 70 million was outstanding under our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility.
Homebuilding net debt to total cap was 47.5%.
Stockholders’ equity grew to 4.6 billion this quarter.
That’s a 23% increase over the prior year and our book value per share increased to $22.32 per share.
We received a credit rating upgrade during the quarter as SMP operated Lennar’s corporate rating to BB and subsequent to quarter end we retired 250 million of our 2014 senior notes which matured on September 1.
Finally let me summarize the updated goals for 2014.
Starting with deliveries we are confirming our previously stated goals to deliver between 21 000 and 22 000 homes for 2014 with a backlog conversion ratio for Q4 of 95% to 100%.
This puts deliveries around the middle of the range which ties in with the way we see the market today.
Gross margin consistent with what we have previously said and given the competitive pressures in the market we expect our gross margins to be around 25% for the fourth quarter.
Rialto we still expect a range of profits between 30 million and 40 million pre-tax for the year and looking at SG&amp;A and corporate G&amp;A we continue to focus on leveraging our G&amp;A lines and still expect at least a combined 25 basis points of improvement for all of 2014.
We still expect financial services profits to be in the 65 million to 75 million range for the year and with multifamily since we closed on the two potential apartment communities available to sell in 2014 in our third quarter as we look forward to the fourth quarter we’re not expecting any additional apartment community sales.
Therefore the multifamily segment will have start-up overhead expenses similar to what you saw in the second quarter of this year.
We’re not expecting any significant sales activities in the joint venture and land line for the fourth quarter.
That should be close to breakeven.
And as I mentioned our fourth quarter effective tax rate should be around 36%.
We’re still expected to end 2014 with a range of approximately 600 to 625 communities.
With that let’s turn it back to the operator and open it up for your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question today is from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Hi.
Thanks.
Congrats on the quarter.
Thanks.
The first question I had was on trends during the quarter.
Stuart you referred to in your commentary that some competitors are offering large incentives and Bruce most recently said that given some of the competitive pressures you expect gross margins to remain around 25% for 4Q.
But in that last comment Bruce you think that if competitive pressures are really materially increasing gross margins could come under a little bit of pressure in 4Q versus 3Q but that doesn’t appear to be the case.
And so I was hoping Stuart and if Rick or Jon wanted to join in but just elaborate on that view of incentives during the quarter if incentives really have increased to a material degree and if that’s the case gross margins going into 4Q? Thanks Mike.
Let me let deferred to Rick and Jon.
They’re very close to the action on the field.
Hi Michael.
It’s Rick.
Bruce did highlight that we think we’ll be around 25% for the quarter.
I think we’re always very straight up as to what guidance we give you with regard to margins.
We have seen various competitors do different things out there with regard to incentives.
As we’ve said all year long we’re balancing pace and price to maximize the value of the assets that we’ve got.
Based on the visibility of that we’ve got today we’re not anticipating anything going outside of that range.
Our incentives this last quarter did go down and we’re balancing that in every community we’ve got across the nation.
Michael it’s Jon.
I would add to that that it clearly is a community by community focus and one of things that gives us comfort that we have the visibility in the fourth quarter is our Everything’s Included program which gives us a different value proposition for the consumer so that we can compete against incentive programs that other builders may have and continue to our pace and pricing strategy.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And I guess second question on the order trend in sales up 23% and even the average community count approach sales pace up roughly 4% year-over-year for the quarter.
I was hoping – and that came a little bit above our expectations and I think the Street as well.
I was hoping if possible if you can give us a sense month to month? I know month to month can sometimes be volatile but if any trends if you’re going through more granularly would that – the order growth the 23% was that similar throughout the quarter as well as the sales pace anything to note from the intra-quarter perspective? Not a lot of significant differences in monthly sequentially.
It follows the normal season pattern for the summer.
July was probably the strongest month but June and August were very healthy both on pace and price.
I’d just say Michael I think that what we’ve been seeing is that the market is tending to move a little bit around; a little bit up a little bit down.
You get that sense on a weekly basis and on a monthly basis.
But the trend line is decidedly upward and as I’ve said – I probably said it three times in my remarks it’s a gentle upward slope and you’ve got upward and downward movement around that kind of direction.
And I think that’s what we’re seeing basically in our sales as we go through the months and through the weeks.
Great.
Thanks very much.
I appreciate it.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Eli Hackel from Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just starting off just wanted to touch on the pivot you’re doing in terms of your land strategy and I guess the overall question is as you go into the cycle and as we bought a lot of land early and your ancillary businesses should be increasingly cash flow positive how are you thinking about use of cash with respect to maybe the balance sheet or respect to dividends or share buybacks as we go forward? Thank you.
Eli that’s a top-of-mind question but it’s still a question that’s a little bit off in the future.
We’re still we think deep in the midst of the investment cycle in the business.
As I noted the shallow upward recovery is a very solid backdrop for us to continue investing.
I think it lends itself to a longer duration upwardly trending market.
And we do continue to invest in significant land assets.
What our pivot has really reflected more recently is that we’re kind of pulling down the duration of land that were purchasing and it is a slow process and one that is going to present itself over the next couple of years.
But think in terms of over the next period of time we’ll continue investing our capital in growing our business forward and just making sure that we’re not getting out over our skis in duration exposure.
With that said as we do become more cash flow positive and we will as our ancillary businesses do start returning capital as we’ve already seen with Rialto and as we’ll start to see with some of the others as well and as we lighten up on the percentage of our revenues that we’re reinvesting in land cash will start to turn decidedly positive.
And I think that we will take somewhat of an opportunistic view of the market thinking strategically about how to best deploy that capital whether it’s in the form of dividends stock buyback or some other form of investment we’re going to keep an open mind and the management team will be considering it.
Yes I guess I’d add one other thing is if you look at our land spend this year and fiscal 2014 you saw we were heavier in the first quarter and it’s been ticking down.
First quarter we’re about 500 million this last quarter we’re about 272 million.
Contrary to that we’ve had increased spend on the development side and it really goes back to the opportunistic purchases that we had in the previous years and now we’re developing that property.
We’re fortunate to not have to go out and buy land today and consistent with what we’ve said in the past what we’re doing is we’re working with sellers out there and helping them entitle their land tying it up without having to put actual dollars out.
So that’s another example of the soft pivot that we’re doing.
Great thanks.
Just one quick follow up.
Can you just remind us or at least in the last quarter what percentage of your deliveries were from the new higher margin communities and what the delta is between those communities and your legacy? Thank you.
That percentage is somewhere around 80% now Eli.
Great.
Thanks very much.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ivy Zelman from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Thank you.
Good morning and congratulations on a great quarter guys.
I think big picture question first for Stuart and anyone else wants to opine on this but then second I want the development activity.
So first question recognizing it’s been a choppy market Stuart and as you very eloquently discussed the trajectory pointing upwards can you give us a sense to why Lennar seems to be able to hit the ball down the fairway and consistently deliver good results and some of the differences you don’t have to mention names but there is clearly a dichotomy of performance and I think it’s an opportunity to talk about what you guys do differently? And prior to that the second question just quickly on development activity.
There has been a lot of noted shortfalls in community new openings.
It seems as if you’re also managing to still deliver on community count growth.
Can you comment on delays and some of the impediments to getting that supply to market and if those delays are being worked through or mitigated and what we should anticipate going forward on community count for the industry? Starting with your first question Ivy I think you know well that I hold the competitive landscape in very high regard and I think that everybody’s – the large well capitalized builders the strategies of the competitive field are all strong and viable and somewhat differentiated.
Our strategy which we’re quite pleased with is very focused on a combination of good strategic land purchases and really hands-on community by community management.
So as you know we got out ahead of the market in terms of land acquisition.
We bought great strategic communities in really well located positions and we’ve been able to really leverage the harvesting of those communities continue to leverage the community positions that we have.
But I think that maybe the equally important component of this is our management structure and management team is very focused on a community by community basis of managing every day and the balance between volume margin SG&amp;A spend all of the components that drive and add to the decision making about pricing and incentives and everything else.
The decisions are made on a daily basis in the field.
They’re made cooperatively between division president regional president and Rick and Jon respectively.
It’s just a very active management program that is vibrant and very connected to the market in general.
So that’s our structure and our program and we’ve been very pleased to be able to be balanced in the way that we approach the business to date.
I think that you can expect a lot more of the same.
As it relates to community count it does get a little bit more difficult to develop communities going forward.
I think that we’re pretty well advantaged by having loaded up on our community count early and gotten into the development and whatever entitlement necessities that were earlier.
With that said it’s still difficult to bring community count online.
As I’ve told you and others before community count is one of the most elusive parts of our business and it’s part of our balance.
It takes a lot executive management to keep focused on it.
I think we do an excellent job but it’s the component of business that continues to be a difficult part of management.
Rick maybe you’d want to add to that.
Yes probably the toughest thing out there to control Ivy is the volume going through the municipalities.
The towns and cities still haven’t staffed up to date to handle the volume of the activity.
And with regard to that even on the housing side there is buffers that we have to go through in order to get the approvals not just the approvals on paper but the site approvals the inspections.
And fortunately we’re blessed because we have really great people.
They try to stay ahead of it.
The land development business is all about timing and knowing what to do when to do it and what to expect.
And I think we just have good people.
Great.
Well enjoy your day.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Hi guys.
Congratulations on a strong quarter.
Thank you.
I had a couple of questions not to take anything away from what you’ve done but wanted to just ask about the SG&amp;A.
Over the last three quarters the SG&amp;A rate if you include corporate hasn’t really changed much.
I know you talked about the fact – you gave some of the reasons for that in your opening remarks and you talked about to some degree the ramping community count that you’ve been experiencing as being a reason why your improvement in SG&amp;A hasn’t manifested itself yet.
My question essentially is that if we assume that community count were to grow let’s say – continue to grow roughly at the rate that it’s been growing this year would the likely impact of that be that SG&amp;A improvement would probably be delayed for another year or so until that growth meaningfully decelerates or are there other factors that you think will allow your SG&amp;A to start showing that sort of 7% incremental that you talk about even if your community count growth remains at let’s say about mid-teens kind of level? Steve this is Bruce.
I’ll take that one.
As you look at the community count growth and if you look at the SG&amp;A numbers that we talked about today the increased communities was the smaller portion of the explanation.
So as we go forward we are expecting to get the leverage and again we’ve kind of laid out how we get that operating leverage because most of the growth is coming from existing divisions or existing communities.
So we do expect to get that leverage and we don’t expect it to be deferred into some future year.
We expect next quarter to get some leverage and going into 2015 to get additional leverage.
Bruce if I could just sort of get you to talk a little bit more broadly about I mean one of the things that we get pushback on and I’m sure you probably do too is the fact that for most builders that we talked too the 125 to 225 basis points of leverage which some of your graphics would suggest you can achieve seems much higher much much more lofty goal than I think other builders would feel comfortable talking about.
Some of that has to do with the fact that when you look historically you guys carried perhaps a greater overhead structure than you intend to going forward and I think you talked about U.S.
Home in the past playing a role in that.
Could you just elaborate a little bit more on why Lennar may have sort of an outsized opportunity in SG&amp;A versus peers? Well I think it starts with we already have a national platform.
So as you’re comparing across the field our focus for growth isn’t needing to go into new markets and that’s the more expensive component of SG&amp;A.
So in the past we did a lot of aggressive growing in the last decade and we’ve consolidated in the markets we want to be in and we’re now about 30 divisions.
Our growth going forward is primarily coming from those 30 divisions where the incremental SG&amp;A is around 7%.
And I think that’s probably the biggest differentiator as we think about our program.
That’s where most of the leverage will come from.
But more specifically to the question that you were asking Steve historically we were configured with multiple divisions in the same market.
We’ve walked through that with many and we were about 124 different operating divisions across the country; sometimes two or three divisions in one geography.
We used the downturn as an opportunity to really rethink the configuration of our operating platform and I think that Rick and Jon have done an extraordinary job of putting leadership in place in geographical places where we’re not going to have to expand into multiple divisions in order to grow this time.
Instead we think that we’re going to be able to comfortably grow.
We’ll add a few divisions as we get larger and as geographies get a little bit stretched.
But right now we’re 30 divisions.
We were at a 124 and we might end up with 35 40 divisions as we grow our volumes back remembering that the largest opportunity to grow volume and to leverage overhead still remains in recapturing a traditional four homes per community per month absorption rate and we still haven’t seen that growth.
So the ability to leverage overhead directly derives from the way that we’re structured today and we think that we have a hearty focused structure that can bear a lot more growth.
Great.
Thanks very much.
That was a great answer.
Last question related to the apartment business.
Did you retain an interest in those two apartment complexes that you sold off and can you talk a little bit about what you intend to do in terms of capturing value that you create beyond just the construction of and the lease up of the units as you go forward? In the short term as we’ve said in the past Steve we’re in a build to sell mode.
We’ve been dealing with third parties; buying the land starting a venture constructing developing and then selling the asset once it’s stabilized.
And we’ve had two of those to-date.
I think as we move forward into 2015 given that we’ve got ventures set up with the 19 things that are under construction or completed at this point in time you’ll see a similar type of trajectory on those assets.
We have not retained an ownership interest.
We are working on some things where we hopefully will be able to maybe get a profit as well as continue to have an ownership interest but we haven’t set that up yet.
Just to add to that what we’re trying to articulate quarter-to-quarter is that we are going to define this business as a merchant-build business in order to prove the power of this backlog that we’ve been creating.
You’re seeing the first evidence of that.
This is a proving ground for what we have in our pipeline to demonstrate that number one we have a strong pipeline; number two we can design build lease-up stabilize properties.
And as we prove this property after property to a broader market I think that the next thing that we will focus on is the opportunity that’s embedded in this pipeline of product that’s very desirable to the investment markets and we’ll take that opportunity and wrap some kind of a fence whether it’s a REIT or whether it’s a private equity program around it and have further monetization.
But we said very clearly that step number one is to prove the platform and I think that we’re – you’re starting to see the proof.
There’s no question we could one way or the other.
The true magic is can we get both and that’s what we’re focused on to create a platform where we can generate the income so it’s great for our stockholders on a current basis and predictable but still have an ownership piece in these assets as NOI as we go forward.
Great.
Thanks very much guys and good luck.
Your next question is from Stephen East from ISI Group.
Thank you.
Congratulations guys.
Just to follow-on that a little bit you say it was about 15 million – a little bit less than 15 million you profited.
If I backed into it you sold it for around 60 million.
Is one is that accurate? And two what type of cap rate does that imply because I know Stuart you all have talked that you thought you would be able to capture that construction delta on the cap rate? Steve it’s Rick.
We have continued to get in those two deals north of the 200 basis points spread on cap versus yield on cost.
You’re somewhat in the ballpark with regard to proceeds.
There were two different sales and the returns were really off the charts.
Okay so so much better than the 25% that I’m sort of backing into there? Yes you’re right.
Okay.
And you all move forward you said it was late '15 that you thought you would be able to start rolling these out quarter-by-quarter and judging by what you’ve seen so far as you get later into '15 and '16 for these sales does that hurdle rate 25% plus? Does it start to ratchet back down? Starting with the hurdle rate I don’t think it does.
Everything’s been underwritten to that kind of IRR for us given that – remember that the structures allow us to promote as we work through the waterfall.
With regard to potential sales for 2015 it’s probably going to be in the neighborhood of five to six apartment communities.
We may see one in the first half of the year and the balance in the latter half of the year.
The heaviest quarter would be the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then Stuart in our field research we’ve seen not only you all but other builders starting to ramp up broker incentives more versus other type of incentives.
And I guess I’m interested in what’s the rationale there why that which could be true dollars out of the door versus some other things and what do you think happens as you go through call it the next six to 12 months as far as broker incentives versus other types of incentives? Well it’s an interesting question Steve.
The first thing that we have to recognize is that we live in a competitive world and a competitive field and so in part we can be self determined and in part we still have to recognize what the competitive field is doing.
So to the extent that the field moves in a direction i.e.
ramping up brokerage fees in order to keep within the acceptable ranges with the brokers we might have to move in that direction too.
I do recognize that our business is defined at a very local level.
So in some markets you’re seeing some of the competitors move very much in favor of ramping up brokerage fees.
I think that our view and the way that we’ve run our business is we’re probably behind others in how they’ve ramped up but we still want to stay in the good graces of the brokerage community so we really can’t fall too far behind in those select communities.
So it really kind of comes down to the mechanisms by which some of the competitors might at moment in time in specific locations decide that they need to ramp up volume.
So you’re seeing some of that move around as people define their business and define their strategies.
And it’s not our preferred direction in terms of managing the pact but at the same time we want to make sure that we stay in the good graces of the brokerage community.
They are a vital part of our business.
Yes fair enough I get it on that.
Do you think the incentives are above normal levels at the broker level right now? Again I just want to highlight that the way the question is framed it’s almost like a national question and it is a very local kind of activity that we all average up to the national level.
But what I really want to keep in your mind and people’s mind is that the market itself is kind of moving gently upwards but up and down along the way.
And it has caused some and in some markets to really try to focus on driving volume at moments in time.
So I think I would answer your question by saying that at times it does get a little bit overheated both in incentives and in the fee for brokers.
And at other times it curtails backwards.
So it’s a moving evaluation rather than one that’s static and consistent.
So I think a lot of it depends on – a lot of the answer to your question depends on how the market kind of gyrates up and down and people need to drive sales or competitors need to drive sales.
It gets a little frothy at times; it pulls back.
We try to remain pretty consistent and not move just directly in response but remember as it relates to brokers we’re trying to stay in the game and make sure that we remain in the good graces in that part of our business.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
I appreciate it.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
Hi good morning.
Nice quarter.
I was just outside of Houston and Katy at a Cinco Ranch and we saw a lot of demand for EI product at the lower end of the price range and it seems like there is a lot of demand for first-time homebuyers.
And I wanted to see if you a) are seeing a return of the first-time homebuyer and b) how you’re thinking heading into 2015 if the first-time buyer is coming back the tradeoff between incremental operating leverage and mix? Hi Bob it’s Rick.
As we said in the past we have been very focused on that first-time buyer and maybe I’ll give you a little bit of color as to what we’ve been doing over the last year and how it will play out in our operations within the next 12 months.
We really view that first-time buyer as a sub 175 sub $200 000 price point.
And let’s just take Texas as an example.
As we move into 2015 under 200 000 we’ll have about 26% of our communities.
In Dallas it will be about 20% Austin the same and the same with San Antonio.
So we’ve been putting these positions together over the last year to really target that buyer.
It’s a little bit tougher to get under 175 much much tougher because of the land cost to get under 150 but we do view that as a very viable piece of the business.
We still will have the higher price stuff but you’ll start to see that move through in our closings.
I just want to go back to something I said in our opening remarks.
We haven’t at all neglected the first-time buyer market.
About 30% of our business overall is kind of geared towards that first-time buyer.
We have that cork squarely in the water.
Rick and Jon have been very focused on positioning the company to participate as that market returns but let’s not underestimate.
It’s still very difficult for that market to get reignited until we start to see a little bit more movement in terms of access to the mortgage market remembering that there are really three barriers to the first-time buyer coming back.
First it’s the down payment.
Then it’s the very stiff underwriting and the bank overlays relative to accessing mortgage credit.
And then finally the process itself has become fairly invasive at least as far as people see the process and feel the process.
And every time I say this to a group there’s at least three or four people in the group that raise their hand and say yup I know what you mean by invasive.
So the process is almost designed to scare people away.
The barriers are a little bit steep right now.
It’s going to moderate.
And as I noted we’ve got our cork squarely in the water and we’re ready to participate as the market really comes back in earnest.
I hope it does.
Was going to ask Jon you made some comments about FivePoint making some progress.
It looks like the first phase at El Toro is set up.
If you can give us a little bit more color what you’re seeing in terms of demand patterns both at El Toro and the shipyard just to give a view on southern and northern California that would be great? Thanks very much.
Bob El Toro has remained very strong since we opened in October.
We’re 80% sold out of 726 homes from the various builders in a very short period of time that covered the slowest part of the season as well.
We’ve seen just continued strength in that market.
Irvine is a very desirable location and we see strong demand from builders’ interest in our next phase there.
In San Francisco we haven’t opened models yet.
That will happen later this quarter but we’ve seen strong success with our presales which is just a very quiet program but steady demand steady traffic steady sales activity and a building interest.
So we’re very encouraged by the early signals that we see there as well.
Are you still seeing good ASP growth? Yes we are.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Okay I think maybe we got time for one more.
Okay.
Our final question today is from David Goldberg from UBS.
Thank you.
Thanks for taking my call and good quarter.
Thank you.
I wanted to follow-up Stuart on your commentary in response to Bob’s question there about the entry-level buyer and the constraints that are coming in the mortgage market.
And what I’m trying to get an idea of is how do you monitor those constraints and how that’s trending? So presumably you guys want to be a little bit proactive or more proactive than the other builders to kind of get out first or at least get out early to be on top of that.
So what are you looking at to try to get an idea about what’s happening in terms of credit availability and do you think you can get an advantage over the other builders in terms of maybe a little bit earlier by looking at some of the signals? I think David that number one the credit landscape is as I’ve basically described and that is deposit credit underwriting and then the nature of the process all being kind of defined and where they are.
There has been some loosening of the credit underwriting at the margin but it hasn’t been as significant as some has been reported.
We stay very close to the customer in the field we see who is coming in we see what their commentary is.
Remember that the rental market has accelerated in terms of its monthly payment requirement it’s cost of living and that’s really driving people to say I want to buy a home I’d like to fix my cost I’d like to find access to the mortgage market.
So we’re watching what happens as they come in and staying very close to the purchaser in the field.
Now with that said the barriers are high and over time the market adjust to those barriers.
People start saving more down payment.
They find a way; they get help from family.
They start focusing on credit statistics as rental rates go up and they become more volatile because each year there is a re-pricing.
People become ignited to get their credit credentials buffed and polished and ready for underwriting.
They take a deep breath and they prepare themselves to go through the mortgage process.
So you have two things kind of going in opposite directions.
People are becoming more prepared and the mortgage market is opening up at the margins.
And the only thing that we can really do is stay very close to the purchaser in the field see what they’re seeing feeling and finding as they try to access the new home market and use that as a guide post for really diving in and participating.
Now we’ve highlighted that we’ve gone out we’ve tied up properties and positions that enable us to access the first-time market as it really starts to come back and we’re already very involved in the market.
But the indicators to us that it is time to really start focusing on that market will come from the field at a very granular level.
That’s very helpful.
And then just as a follow-up question it feels like you guys and maybe a couple of the other builders are gaining share from maybe broadly the other public builders and maybe some of the private builders.
Do you think it’s true that you’re gaining share right now and the pie is relatively flat? And if so do you think it’s sustainable as you go forward? I think there is a reality right now and that is the credit landscape is tight.
It’s not just tight for the purchaser looking to gain access to the mortgage market but it’s also been very tight for smaller builders and for traditional land developers to get back in the market and to do the things that they do.
So I think the larger well-capitalized builders with access to the land market in a more comprehensive way have been able to pick up market share and that is something that seems like it’s continuing going forward.
Of course the small builders are resourceful and find their way to participate but I still think that the larger builders have a distinct advantage in the current market condition and I do believe that the pickup of market share is sustainable and will continue.
I know you said that the pie is fairly static.
It feels like over time the pie is going to be gently expanding as well but with a gently expanding pie I think that you’re going to see pickup in market share as well.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
You’re welcome.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
We’re sorry for those who weren’t able to get on.
Of course Bruce is available today to answer calls and we look forward to reporting again the end of our fourth quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to Lennar's fourth quarter earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
David Collins for the reading of the forward-looking statement.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Today's conference call may include forward-looking statements including statements regarding Lennar's business financial condition results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar's estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could affect future results and may cause Lennar's actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described in this morning's press release and our SEC filings including those under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar's Annual Report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
All right.
Well let me just jump in and begin then.
This is Stuart Miller.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter and year-end update.
This morning I am joined by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer and Dave Collins who you just heard from Diane Bessette our Vice President and Treasurer.
Rick Beckwitt our President and Jon Jaffe Chief Operating Officer are here as well and Jeff Krasnoff Chief Executive Officer of Rialto.
They are all going to join in for question-and-answer.
As is customary on our conference call I am going to begin with some brief overview remarks on the housing market and our operations and then Bruce is going to jump in with greater detail.
As always we will open up to Q&amp;A and we would like to request that during Q&amp;A each person limit themselves to one question and one follow-up.
So let me go ahead and begin and let me begin by saying that we are very pleased to report another very solid quarter of performance for Lennar with each of our major segments performing better than expected.
Our fourth quarter and year-end results demonstrate that our company is very well positioned to continue to perform extremely well in current market conditions and to continue to execute our carefully crafted and balanced operating strategy.
Generally speaking we continue to believe that we are still in the early stages of a protracted slow growth housing recovery.
The recovery continues to be driven forward by increased pent-up demand derived from a now multiyear production deficit and the increasingly high monthly cost of rentals.
At the same time volume growth has been constrained by overly conservative lending standards a regulatory environment that discourages mortgage lending by banks and a negative bias overhang against homeownership.
Complicating matters the housing recovery has been somewhat erratic as macroeconomic factors have continued to both positively and negatively affect that recovery.
As I have said before this market has continued a slow and steady recovery that is markedly different from past down cycle recoveries.
I noted in our last conference call that history would suggest a more vertical recovery especially given the severity of the economic decline.
This recovery has had a decidedly different trajectory as the slope of recovery has been shallow and the recovery has been choppy and volatile.
While the reflection of the market has been confounding to many we have had a very clear understanding that has informed our company strategy.
Simply put we believe and continue to believe that the downside in the housing market is very limited and the upside is very significant.
We believe that the market is downside supported by many years of production deficits which has yielded a limited supply of both rental and for-sale housing in the country.
Any pullback in housing volume would be short-lived as there is a need for shelter in the country and there is very little inventory with almost no likelihood of mortgage foreclosures given the stringent underwriting standards of the past years.
And while demand has remained constrained by impaired consumer psychology burdensome mortgage underwriting standards and banking regulations that discourage mortgage lending buyers have been steadily returning to homeownership as the market opens up driven by the cost realities of a high priced and undersupplied rental market.
With recent pronouncements by FHFA and HUD aimed at bringing buyers back to the market with the consumer stimulus provided by lower gas prices with employment and wages slowly mending with lower interest rates driving greater affordability and with that multiyear deficit in production the upside in housing remains ahead of us.
Even with questions raised about markets like Houston given the drop in oil prices and foreign purchasers given the strong dollar there are strong countercurrents to act as an offset.
At a million homes of multifamily and single-family production per year we are continuing to undersupply the longer-term needs of the country and this will have to be made up.
The shallow slope of this recovery likely provides a steady backdrop for market share expansion in a fragmented industry and an extended recovery duration for those who are able to participate by leveraging a strong capital base.
I would suggest that this is a very healthy environment for the well-capitalized national builders and for Lennar in particular.
Our results for 2014 reflect our success in navigating this landscape and we believe that we are well positioned for strong results in 2015 and beyond.
A combination of solid management execution of our articulated strategies and strategic investments in core assets combine to produce strong results and will enable continued industry-leading performance throughout next year.
Homebuilding of course remains the primary driver of our company performance [indiscernible] that is driving this performance this quarter were job growth and encouraging dialogue regarding mortgage underwriting while the headwinds remain a challenging mortgage approval process and aggressive competitor incentives.
Lennar's execution strategy remain balancing price and pace on a community-by-community basis to maximize our results and continuing our soft pivot towards the slower growth and land-lighter program.
The execution of this strategy produced 22% sales growth 25.6% gross margin and a 16% operating margin.
Our operating margin for the full year of 14.9% matches our company high from 2005.
Our sales pace in the fourth quarter was three sales per community per month and this was flat with 2013 fourth quarter pace by 2.9 and still is not enough to drive the operating leverage that should come from increased absorption.
Nevertheless fourth quarter SG&amp;A was 9.6% and a 30 basis point year-over-year improvement.
Our average sales price increased 7% year-over-year to $329 000.
During the quarter we opened 75 new communities and closed up [indiscernible] communities to end at 625 active communities or 16% year-over-year increase.
Year-over-year labor and material costs are up 7% to $50 a square foot.
This represents the slowing of the pace of cost increases from a 10% plus year-over-year run rate the past two years and that's before the recent fall of oil prices.
With oil prices down we should see cost and petroleum-based products such as roots single and asphalt come down as well as broader reductions from the overall positive impact of lower transportation costs.
Additionally the reduction in costs in copper and other commodities should add to cost reductions in the future.
Remember however that increases are quick to be passed on while decreases are difficult and time-consuming to realize.
With many of our competitors offering large incentives to drive sales sales incentives grew 6.6% for the quarter compared to 6.3% last year and 5.8% last quarter.
Our realtor expense was 2.8% of revenues compared to 2.5% last year.
We continued to strategically use incentives and/or increased brokerage fees on specific communities where we thought the sales pace [indiscernible] selectively marketing more aggressively to both brokerage community and consumers on communities as needed.
As we have noted before our sales and margins continue to benefit from our Next Gen offering.
For the quarter our Next Gen product had a year-over-year growth rate of 38%.
We now offer Next Gen plans in 205 communities in 14 of our 17 states with an average sales price 23% above our company average.
Our homebuilding operating results for 2014 really speak for themselves.
As we look to 2015 while we expect to see some margin contraction due to competitive pressures and the inclusion of some additional legacy land assets in our product offering our homebuilding operating platform is well positioned to continue to drive strong profitability for the company.
Of course complementing our homebuilding operations our financial services segment continued to build its primary business alongside the homebuilder while continuing to also grow our retail platform.
Bruce will talk more about our financial services progress which has had a very respectable quarter with operating earnings of $30.2 million which is a 78% improvement over to $17 million last year.
While our homebuilding and financial services divisions are the primary drivers of near-term revenues and earnings our three additional operating divisions are all continuing to mature as excellent longer-term value creation platforms for the company.
Our multifamily operation has grown to 157 associates and regional offices nationwide.
We currently have seasoned professional and division offices in Atlanta Boca Raton Charlotte Washington DC Chicago Dallas Denver Phoenix Orange County San Francisco and Seattle.
We ended the year with 22 apartment communities under construction three of which are in lease up totaling over 6 000 apartments with a total development cost of approximately $1.4 billion.
We also have one completed fully leased and operating student housing community that serves the students attending the University of Texas at Austin.
Including these communities we have a diversified development pipeline that exceeds $5 billion and over 20 000 apartments.
In 2014 we sold our first two apartment communities and given the construction schedule of our pipeline.
We are positioned to sell another five communities in the back half of 2015.
With these sales and our management construction and development fees our multifamily business should generate between $15 million and $18 million of pretax earnings in fiscal year 2015.
As we have discussed in the past we have been merchant building our apartment communities with third-party institutional capital on a deal-by-deal basis.
As we move into 2015 we are looking to create a multifamily fund that would allow us to both develop and hold our completed and leased apartment communities as a portfolio in order to capture the recurring income stream from the portfolio.
We are cautiously optimistic that we can take our apartment programs in the next level and create longer-term shareholder value from this platform.
In the fourth quarter Rialto produced operating earnings of $38.2 million reflecting our continued progress in transitioning from an asset heavy balance sheet investor to a capital light investment manager and commercial loan originator and securitizer.
Rialto has now returned over $400 million of invested capital to the parent company just since last year and we expect to generate at least another $250 million of cash from our initial direct investments for us to recycle by the end of 2016.
Our investment management and servicing platforms have been growing assets under management where we have a very strong asset base from which we are harvesting value for investors and for our company.
We are continuing to build upon the base established with our first two real estate fund.
Fund I became fully invested in early 2013 and in less than two years our investors already have received well over 100% of their invested capital back from income and monetizations and with the distribution of carried interest this quarter we now have about 1.5 times our investment with a lot more to go.
Fund II has already invested or committed to invest approximately $1.2 billion of equity in 75 transaction and also continues to make current distributions of income to investors that to-date have exceeded over 18%.
We still have almost $400 million of equity to invest and expect to begin raising our third real estate fund later this year.
And to complement our real estate fund we also have almost $500 million of equity to investor led mezzanine lending.
We have an outstanding investment team that is extremely well positioned to continue to build our asset management business.
Additionally Rialto mortgage finance our high return equity lending platform is originating and securitizing long-term fixed rate loan on stabilized cash flow in commercial real estate properties.
During the quarter we completed our 12 securitization transaction selling over $500 million of RMF originated loans maintaining our strong margins and bringing our total to $2.2 billion in only our first five quarters of operation.
Finally our FivePoint communities program continues to make significant progress in developing our premium California master-planned communities.
At Heritage Fields or El Toro builders in the first phase of 726 homesites have sold 660 homes over 90% of the homes released for sale with strong pricing power and pace through the fourth quarter.
FivePoint has entered into contracts on the second phase with nine builders for 14 neighborhood with 916 homesites.
Lennar will build 253 homes in four of the neighborhoods along with eight of the builders.
The land sales will close in the first quarter and Lennar will recognize approximately $30 million of income from these sales in that period.
Additionally FivePoint entered into a contract to sell 73 acres of land to Broadcom Corporation for the relocation of their headquarters to the Great Park neighborhood.
They plan to build a campus with two million square foot of office space.
The profit from this transaction will be recognized in Lennar's second quarter.
At Newhall we anticipate to begin land development later this year as Newhall success in monetizing non-core assets has allowed the venture to maintain a significant cash position of approximately $185 million at year-end.
And in San Francisco sales continue to be very strong at the shipyard.
We are now just about sold out of our first phase of 88 home that will begin closing in March.
There are an additional 159 homes under construction most of which will deliver in the fourth quarter of 2015.
Also in the fourth quarter we closed a joint venture with Macerich a retail REIT to develop a 500 000 square-foot regional mall on the site of the Candlestick Park Stadium.
The mall along with an additional 180 000 square feet of retail space is expected to open in the beginning of 2018.
Overall and in summary our company has been busy and our company is extremely well positioned to thrive in the current market conditions.
The shallow slope of recovery with what we believe will be an extended duration provides an excellent environment for our management team to drive our business forward pick up market share and produce excellent results.
Over the past quarters we have been articulating a soft pivot to a land-lighter model in homebuilding and an asset light model for our ancillary businesses.
These initiatives are becoming a core strategy for our company as we develop a carefully refined asset allocation program for our now matured business lines and focus on cash generation and deleveraging our balance sheet.
As we move through 2015 we expect to amplify the company focus on moderating growth focusing on ROIC and driving cash flow as we enter the back half of 2015 and into 2016.
We have an excellent management team that continues to be focused on our carefully crafted strategy.
This team has positioned Lennar with advantage to assets that will continue to drive profitability in our core homebuilding and financial services business line.
Additionally we have developed a well diversified platform that will continue to enhance shareholder value as our ancillary businesses continued to mature.
Today we are proud to share our results for fiscal 2014 and we look forward to sharing our further progress as we move into a new year.
With that let me turn over to Bruce.
Thanks Stuart and good morning.
Our net earnings for the fourth quarter were $1.07 per diluted share versus $0.73 per share in the prior year.
I will provide some additional color to the numbers starting with homebuilding.
Our gross margin on home sales was 25.6% compared with 26.8% in the prior year however this exceeded our fourth quarter gross margin goal discussed on our last conference call.
The gross margin improved sequentially by 40 basis points however declined 120 basis points year-over-year due to a moderation in pricing power as labor material and land costs increased.
Sales incentives increased by 30 basis points to prior year to 6.6% as a percentage of home sale revenue.
The gross margin percentage for the quarter remained highest in the East Southeast Florida and West regions.
Additionally we had a $5.8 million benefit to the gross margin during the quarter relating to Chinese drywall settlements.
In addition to the 30 basis points improvement in our SG&amp;A we have also recognized operating leverage on our corporate G&amp;A line which improved by 10 basis points to 2.2% as a percent of total revenues.
The combined categories of land sale income joint venture profit and other income netted to $14.4 million of profit this year versus $22.1 million in the prior year.
Other interest expense declined 75% year-over-year from $20.5 million in the prior year to $5.2 million in the current quarter as we continued to open communities and increase the qualifying assets eligible for capitalization.
As Stuart mentioned we opened 75 new communities to end the year at 625 active communities.
This is at the high end of the goal that we provided to 2014 and a 16% increase over 2013.
We purchased 4 400 home sites during the quarter totaling $254 million.
Our total land acquisition spend for the full year in 2014 declined by 21% to $1.4 billion from $1.8 billion in 2013.
This is consistent with the strategy that Stuart articulated to softly pivot from longer-term land parcels to shorter-term deals.
Our homesites owned and controlled now total 165 000 homesites of which 133 000 are owned and 32 000 are controlled.
Our completed unsold inventory at quarter-end is carefully managed averaging 1.5 homes per community at 948 homes.
Turning to financial services.
They had a strong quarter with operating earnings increasing to $30.2 million from $17 million in the prior year.
The increased earnings was due to higher volume and higher profit per transaction in both the mortgage and title operations.
The mortgage pretax income increased to $23.9 million from $14.3 million in the prior year.
Mortgage originations increased 52% to $2 billion from $1.3 billion in the prior year.
The increased volume was a result of higher home closings by Lennar a higher capture rate of Lennar homebuyers and the expansion of our retail platform.
The capture rate improved to 80% this quarter from 75% in the prior year.
Our title company's profit increased to $6.9 million in the quarter from $3.4 million in the prior year primarily due to higher profit per transaction.
Our title team continues to focus on maximizing the title opportunities within our ancillary businesses.
Turning to Rialto.
The composition of Rialto is $38.2 million of operating earnings by the three types of investments before G&amp;A and Rialto interest expense are as follows.
First the investment management business contributed $66.5 million of earnings which includes $16 million of equity in earnings from the real estate funds and $50.5 million of management fees and other.
The $50.5 million includes $34.7 million of a carried interest distribution from Rialto Fund I.
This was the first collection of funds pertaining to the carried interest which was distributed to cover the income tax obligation which resulted from allocations of taxable income to Rialto.
The carried interest for Rialto Real Estate Fund I under a hypothetical liquidation increased by approximately $22 million for the quarter.
After the 34.7 million distribution the carried interest is now at $110 million.
Second our new Rialto mortgage finance operations contributed $510 million of commercial loans into three securitizations resulting in earnings of $19.2 million for the quarter before their G&amp;A expenses.
Third our direct investments which primarily are being monetized had a profit of $200 000 and we will continue to liquidate these direct investments as we go forward.
Rialto G&amp;A and other expenses were $40.2 million for the quarter and interest expense relating to the senior notes was $7.4 million.
Rialto ended the year with a strong liquidity position with over $200 million of cash.
Turning to the multifamily segment.
There were no apartment building sales expected during the fourth quarter and their results reflect startup costs associated with the buildout of our construction pipeline which positions us well for a profitable 2015.
Our investment in multifamily is approximately $200 million and we continue to grow this business primarily using third-party capital.
Our tax rate for the fourth quarter was 33.8% and for the year it was 34.8%.
The rate was favorably impacted by the Section 199 domestic production activities deduction which is now available to us since we have utilized our federal net operating losses in various tax credits.
Turning to the balance sheet.
2014 was another year of balance sheet strengthening.
Our liquidity improved as our homebuilding cash balance improved by almost $200 million with no outstanding borrowings under our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility at year-end.
Our leverage improved by 150 basis points as our homebuilding net debt to total cap was reduced to 44.1%.
We grew stockholders' equity by $658 million to $4.8 billion and our book value per share increased to $23.54.
During the quarter we paid off $250 million of maturing 5.5% senior notes and issued $350 million of 4.5% senior notes due 2019.
We continue to reduce our borrowing rate as the company's financial condition strengthens.
Turning to 2015 goals.
I wanted to summarize what's been said on this call and highlight a few additional goals for 2015.
Starting with deliveries.
We are currently geared up to deliver between 23 500 and 24 000 homes for 2015.
We expect a backlog conversion ratio of approximately 70% for the first quarter 85% to 90% for the second and third quarters and 90% to 100% for the fourth quarter.
Turing to gross margin.
Consistent with the goal that we set at the beginning of 2014 our gross margin percentage for 2014 netted to approximately 25% excluding insurance recoveries and other nonrecurring items.
We expect our gross margins in 2015 to average 24% for the full year.
Although of these remaining healthy margins the reduction is a result of less pricing power anticipated in 2015 bringing on some mothballed communities with modestly lower gross margins and a slight increase in the number of entry-level communities.
There will be seasonality between the quarters with the first quarter being the lowest gross margin percentage and then improvement in the gross margin percentage as volumes increase throughout the year.
Our SGA and corporate G&amp;A lines we continue to focus on leveraging these lines and expect 15 to 25 basis points of potential improvement in 2015.
Financial services earnings are expected to be in the range of $85 million to $90 million for the year.
The quarterly amounts are expected to be spread similar to last year with the first quarter anticipated to be the lowest quarter of profitability.
For Rialto we expect a range of profits between $30 million and $40 million for the year and it's heavily weighted to the second half of the year.
As a reminder 2014 included a partial collection and recognition of carried interest from Real Estate Fund I and additionally we had significant gains and increase in mark-to-market for assets held by our real estate fund which are not expected to be as significant 2015 at this point.
Multifamily is transitioning in 2015 into a profit center for the full year.
We are expecting five buildings to be sold all in the second half of the year with the 2015 profit expected to be between $15 million and $18 million.
In 2015 we expect to have building sales coming from this segment in each quarter.
Joint venture and land sales the El Toro joint venture which Stuart highlighted will result in profit to Lennar of approximately $30 million in the first quarter and additionally $10 million in the second quarter.
We are not expecting other significant transactions and therefore the third and fourth quarters for all of our JVs are expected to be about flat.
We are expecting approximately $25 million of wholly owned land sale profit in 2015 with the majority forecasted for the second half of the year.
Our 2015 effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 34.5% to 35% and our net community count is expected to increase approximately 8% to 675 active communities by the end of 2015.
With these goals in mind we are well positioned to deliver strong topline and bottomline growth throughout the year.
And with that let me turn it back to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Stephen East with Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
The question I have been getting from -- Viv I think we lost him.
Yes.
The line has disconnected.
I apologize.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Good Morning.
Thanks very much guys.
Yes I guess a lot of things to talk about but I did want to talk a little bit about the gross margin guidance for the year.
You talked about the fact that there will be some improvements sequentially which is pretty normal but I am guessing probably also that the year-on-year comparison would probably the decline would probably intensify in the back half of the year.
I was wondering if you could confirm that that's probably the right way to looking at it.
And also if you could talk about the -- you mentioned bringing back some mothballed communities.
Can you just elaborate a little bit on that? Sort of where? Why now? And what kind of margin differential do these projects usually have? Thanks.
Hi Steve it's Rick.
I will answer this.
On the gross margin comparison year-over-year we sort of hinted to about 4% decline year-over-year going from 25% to about 24%.
Typical with the year you will see some normal sequential improvements throughout the year starting low ending up higher.
And probably the peak to trough won't be as dramatic.
With regard to the mothballed communities this has been something that we have been doing all you know over the last couple of years evaluating when they are right to bring back on and this is just a continuation of our asset monetization program.
They are really spread across the country.
Not anything really dominated in one particular area.
We would look at 2015 probably in an order of magnitude about 10% of our deliveries will come from things that were taken out of that mothballed bucket and the margin differential is 200 basis points 300 basis points plus or minus between what the average margin is for the company and those communities.
Hi Steve it's Jon.
So just to clarify that the 10% out of mothballed communities is communities opened in 2014 and what will open in 2015.
So that represent that whole universe.
And relative to timing of the margin in your question as you know our first quarter is always our lightest quarter for deliveries.
So we have field expense impacting the margins there.
So it's really not back-end loaded in terms of decline.
I think you will see pretty consistent throughout the year the differential that Bruce spoke about.
Okay that's great.
That's very helpful.
Thank you for that.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about what you are seeing in terms of incentive behavior from your competitors in the marketplace and maybe I assume that that may vary from region-to-region? I know people are going to be particularly interested in what you are seeing in terms of posturing in Houston as well as in California.
So maybe you could just talk generally about qualitatively what you are seeing in terms of incentive behavior in the field and also with a little bit a geographic flavor? Thanks.
Okay.
So let me take that Steve and just say that pretty much across the board we are seeing intensified competition as builders do go out and chase volume.
It's been somewhat of a complex market where a lot of factors are impacting sales across the board.
You mentioned of course Houston where there are more questions than answers right now from the field.
Houston of course is at least in part as an economy dependent on the oil complex and the oil complex is going through a reconciliation.
We haven't seen a significant change in that market condition.
We are seeing a little bit at the higher end of a pullback but we have anticipated in our internal projections that there will be further reconciliation in that marketplace.
It's in part one of the reasons for some of the pullback in our anticipated margins.
Houston is an important market to us.
California we have seen less impact so far.
We continue to see pretty strong buying patterns in California.
I know that there are questions about the currency changes and what that will mean for some of the foreign buyers there but we haven't seen much of a pullback there.
I know that there been other reports.
So you know across the landscape there a lot of factors that are moving markets and changing the landscape and it certainly has intensified the competitive landscape for all builders.
Thanks very much.
You bet.
We do have Mr.
East back on the line.
One moment.
Stephen East your line is open.
Thank you.
And I don't know I got cut off.
So I just heard Steve's question.
But if I could just follow-up a little bit you know the gross margins.
If you could sort of rank order going from 25% to 24% this year as the things that you talked about the mothball the entry-level et cetera.
If you have already answer that I apologize.
And I was also wanting to understand how important is this mix shift become for you as you go through 2015 and then to 2016 as far as focusing on the entry level? Hi Steve it's Rick.
We have articulated for quite a while now that as that entry-level market comes back we are going to be an increasing participant in that market and we plan accordingly.
Most of that activity is really geared towards Texas and parts of Florida for the most part although our other markets are participants in that activity.
With regard to the margin on that the margin for us on our entry level product is lower margin but that doesn't mean that from a pretax and operating basis that the margins are significantly different.
It's just a different business model.
With regard to the legacy assets the mothballed assets about 10% of our deliveries for 2015 will come from those communities.
They carry lower margins but on blend we are pretty positive about our 24% margin for the year.
It's a good healthy margin and it could produce good bottomline profits for the company.
Okay thanks and then just a follow-up question on the West.
Big order gains.
I guess could you give us some clarity on what was really driving that? And I heard some of the commentary about the Asian buyer et cetera but a significant difference in the West on your performance versus earlier and just maybe any color you can give and how you think about the sustainability of that? Yes Steve it's Jon Jaffe.
We saw a healthy sales pace in the fourth quarter above the company average.
Inland Empire which you know there are some questions about -- we saw a pace of about four sales per community per month.
I think we have some very well located communities due to our land position that we acquired earlier.
We have got some very strongly performing master-planned communities.
In the Bay Area we are very well-positioned.
We saw good activity through the Central Valley.
So we really didn't see much movement in incentives to drive that sales pace a little bit but I think because of the product and the locations of our communities performance is remaining strong.
Next question.
Our next question comes from Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
The first question I just had if possible I think there was a reference to some of the expected cadence of the gross margin throughout 2015 maybe starting a little bit lower and then increasing throughout the year as typically occurs but maybe not to a wide variance of range.
Coming off of the 4Q results I was just wondering if it is possible to give a little bit better granularity in terms of you know you are coming off of a 25.6% and I guess excluding the gain from Chinese drywall it's closer to 25.3% would you be looking at something around the 24% range that you are looking for the full year? Or would it be I guess a little bit below that? And then I just have a follow-up.
For the guidance Mike this is Bruce was around 24% as the average for the whole year.
The first quarter tends to be lower because we have less volume and we have more field costs which runs through gross margins.
So that brings the number down.
So it affects the first quarter to be below the 24% average for the year and then for the rest of the year the number should be closer to the average and maybe a little bit higher at the end of the year.
Okay and I guess just the second question.
You had mentioned that you had incorporated some caution or change in the Houston market into your full-year guidance.
I was wondering if you could be a little more granular there as well? Do you expect some -- maybe how much of margin contraction do you expect in Houston? And maybe you can give us a sense of Houston in terms of the revenue impact and if it's operating right now at above or below average corporate margins? Mike I think it's always been our objective to call them like we see them to be straight and to give the best estimate of what we are seeing out ahead of ourselves.
And so as it relates to Houston it's not an exact science.
The market has not yet quite revealed itself.
But there are other crosscurrents that are defining lot of questions that exists in the marketplace.
And of course we have injected appropriate conservatism in our thinking.
So to get down and to get too granular I think that we are making educated guesses in each of our markets about where the market is potentially trending.
We can think across a broad landscape.
We think about the California markets and some of the foreign purchasing that has come in those markets as potentially something that has to be considered and factored into our equation.
Likewise in South Florida we have a pretty robust foreign investment group and those markets all have more questions than answers right now and the estimates are somewhat imperfect.
What we have done with each of our divisions as we have gone through and had done at a very local level think about the impacts of not just the day-to-day traffic coming in but the potential impacts of macroeconomic factors that as I noted in my opening are choppy and sometimes confusing in evaluating the market.
So I am not sure that we can get particularly granular.
It really is a market-by-market and community-by-community assessment that is kind of rolled up.
But what we have tried to do is inject appropriate conservatism in thinking about 2015 and the competitive pressures that exists in the marketplace as we put together our planning for the year ahead.
And just if I could squeeze in one last one on the incentives and then I will get back in queue.
It seems like it is broad-based.
I just was curious in terms of the increase in incentives.
If that was broad-based or more concentrated in certain markets and maybe how much of the monthly 100 bips of margin decline gross margin declined for the company is incentives being a cause of that 100 bips? Incentives is always an interesting question.
It really is just a part of purchase price.
And as we have noted it's part of a community-by-community evaluation very micro level.
Incentives in some markets are running a lot higher.
In other markets they are very low.
Even within markets there are some communities that have much higher incentives associated with them or purchase price alterations associated with them.
We are very focused on looking at a community level figuring out where the sales pace has slowed to a point where we are no longer properly leveraging overheads think about where we add incentives to bring that sales pace up so that we maximize profitability out of the community.
So is it concentrated in an area? No.
It's a broad-based assessment that you really can't put your finger on and delineate for the market.
But it rolls up to what you are seeing here.
Great.
Thank you.
You bet.
Our next question comes from Eli Hackel with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Stuart you seem excited or at least positively inclined about some of the mortgage market changes that have been announced.
I was just wondering your level of confidence that these changes will actually impact the market.
Some of the previously announced changes really don't seem to have done much.
So just curios to hear your thoughts around that.
Well some of them have been articulated and not quite implemented.
I wouldn't overemphasize my enthusiasm for the specific changes.
I think it's the beginning of a process.
And I think that the fact that we are hearing this articulation at this point is suggestive of the fact that people are starting to understand that perhaps we have overcorrected and perhaps it's detrimental to the overall economy and to the landscape of the population and that we have got to start getting and reverting to normal.
I think the reversion to normal will unlock a lot of pent-up demand.
It's going to take some time and it's why I say on the horizon I see the best times for the homebuilding operation.
But do I see a correction that takes place that alters the landscape in the next quarter I think no.
It's more part of the process.
But I am fairly optimistic that politically as a country we are going to get to understand that capital is going to define or access to capital is going to define what builds the middle class and some of that revolves around housing and I think that people are going to be recommitted to building a for-sale housing market.
That's going to work very well for us and other builders.
Thanks and then I was just wondering you talked a little bit about it but maybe go into a little bit more detail about the ongoing cost of the soft pivot capital allocation.
Do you expect to be cash flow positive this year? And if so sort of what are you thinking about doing with that cash? We have been talking about this for about the last year-and-a-half and it's been very much part of management's focus.
We have been gently pivoting away from a land-heavy strategy towards a land-lighter strategy and it is with the focus of becoming cash flow positive.
We do think as we get the end of this year we do start to turn to cash flow positive with a healthier turn even more in 2016.
We are very focused on our return on invested capital.
We think that the first move with our additional cash flow will be in the form of debt reduction and focusing on our balance sheet but ultimately we will be considering where access cash flow comes from.
Remember that it's not just the homebuilding business that should be cash flow generative ultimately our ancillary businesses also start to contribute and we think we are going to have some important decisions to make as we get into future years.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Alan Ratner with Zelman.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
First just a housekeeping question.
The Hunters Point delivery is that going to flow through the JV or consolidated blend? The Hunters Point deliveries will flow through the joint venture line.
Okay.
So when you gave the guidance for breakeven I think in the back-half of the year on JVs I thought you mentioned first of the deliveries coming through there.
So that's kind of incorporated in that guidance? It is and we are doing very well with sales at Hunters Point.
But just remember we had a lot of front-end development costs that are also running through that line in addition to the closings of the first deliveries at Hunters Point so will see more contribution as we get into 2016.
Got it.
Thanks and just on the slow pivot ROIC focus.
How should we think about longer-term how Lennar looks under that type of model because investors clearly have gotten used to you guys certainly outperforming on the gross margin line and probably the volume growth line as well as you benefited from that long land pipeline you had? So should we ultimately expect margins to revert more to that lower 20% range which I think is indicative of a asset light shorter land model or should we stop short of going all the way there because you are going to settle out somewhere in between? And I guess just kind of the cadence to get there are we talking about this multiyear process or is this something that by 2016 2017 you are pretty much where you ultimately envision the company being? Look I think that we still have an advantage in land in that would have land positions that carry-forward.
That's enabled us to kind of fish in a different pond and use our land expertise to continue to build price advantaged land positions that's held us in good stead.
We think as historically we will continue to outperform relative to gross margin there.
Gross margins were down to moderate at some point and it shouldn't catch anyone off-guard that they will and should be some moderation in gross margin as we become more of a retail purchaser of land.
But I think a normalized operating program of buying land and becoming more of a manufacturing model as markets mature as there is less distressed opportunity out there is exactly what Lennar is focused on making sure that we are carefully balancing buying good land positions in the right locations operating an excellent manufacturing model on the homebuilding side and really focusing on our balance sheet in the generation of cash and return on invested capital.
I might add one thing on this.
Part of the pivot is managing the length of the deal and how long we are in individual communities.
And as we have bought various communities over the past in the downturn some of these communities were very sizable that had multi-multi-year runs in order for us to build through them.
So as we are managing the cycle and this pivot it's a changing focus on the length of how long we want to be in some of these communities given the fact that the market might change and we want to have a shorter-term of exposure.
Next question.
We have a question from Megan McGath with MKM Partners.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks.
This is a little bit of a follow-up to that last question and the last commentary there I think is partially an answer.
But I guess looking at Texas now but this could be really any market where you are starting to perhaps see signs of slowdown or you see some writing on the wall.
Can you talk a little bit about levers at your disposal? And maybe lessons learned versus the last downturn? Are there things that you would likely do quicker? Let's say you start to see things slowdown perhaps try to pickup pace quicker? Or related to last comment is your inventory different than it was let's say nine or ten years ago that would just perhaps limit the over building that we could potentially see in some of these markets as you see sort of a fast slowdown in employment? Look as I noted in my opening comments I think that the downside even in a market like Houston the downside is kind of defined by a change in the employment structure of the market where you start to see the oil complex really shed some jobs and that affects confidence and home sales but I think that there are some countercurrent kind of considerations.
While the oil complex moves down gas prices come down and Houston is a more diversified platform than it has been in prior oil downturns.
So we are not looking we are not expecting a very sizable downturn but I think that the way that we have configured our company and we have focused on purchasing assets the locations that we have focused on as we have gone through even in a downturn scenario are the locations that hold up the best that continue to perform the best in the market and we think that any downturn ends up being fairly shallow and we move forward.
So from a lessons learned perspective we have clearly not gone out to the B- C locations.
We have not gotten out over our skis We have already been tapering back on the land supply the tail of land supply.
And I think that we are really well-positioned to be able to just kind of in an orderly fashion work through inventories even in a fairly aggressive downturn scenario and be positioned with strong cash.
And I guess just one comment on the Texas market since it's been brought up a number of time.
The overall economy in Texas is very strong.
You know if you look at as just going back to Stuart's opening remarks job growth across the state has been incredibly strong inventories are in the neighborhood of maybe one to two months of finished home supply.
On the new side resale inventory is extremely well as well and you have just outside of Houston just very strong economies with excellent job growth.
Houston in particular as Stuart said we haven't really been too much of change in Houston yet.
But we were smart enough to know that if oil prices continue to be depressed that there will be some negative reaction in the market.
It generally happens that it is price point focused and one of the things that we have been focused on is making sure that we are a participant in all of the price points in Houston market in order to insulate ourselves to as much as possible with the changes in the market demands.
And we are well-positioned that we are smart enough to know that as oil moves down there maybe some job loss primarily more on higher end and it could impact pricing and that's why we have given guidance to a little bit lower margin in Houston.
Great.
That's helpful.
And then just to follow-up around the commentary on some of the government initiatives clearly too early to have seen anything on the FHA but it's been a month or so since the announcements around the FHFA 3% down mortgages and any kind of early indications that that's taking hold? Not really.
And I think that you have got to look at the landscape as relative to many of the articulations as multidimensional.
One lever is probably not going to move the needle.
I think that we have to properly regard the fact that the regulatory landscape has really discouraged mortgage lending.
There is more than just underwriting criteria and downpayments at stake here.
We have got to get people back in the game of making mortgages to people that really need the money as opposed to making mortgages to the people who are so far qualified that we never have to but the only mortgage that we are to make is to Warren Buffett we are certainly not going to have any defaults but we are not going to make a lot of mortgages.
We would better be able to bring the risk profile back to a normalized setting.
And it is in large part the regulatory environment that is defining some of that.
I think that the discourse the commentary that's been coming out of HUD and FHFA is positive and constructive.
People recognizing that perhaps we have put too strong of a lid on this mortgage business and if you listen to the commentary coming out of the banks there still isn't a lot of appetite for land.
So we haven't seen a lot of movement yet in the fields from these articulation but they are promising in terms of important people starting to understand how the landscape has to migrate in order to really bring the buyer back to the market.
Great.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
You bet.
Our next question comes from Michael Dahl with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
So I guess the comments on and the discussion around ROIC it sounds like the implication would be that land spend would be down again in 2015? And if that is the case then community count growth probably moderates further in 2016.
Is that a fair way to think about how you are viewing the landscape today? Well land spend will move around a little bit as we go through the next couple of years.
It's a little bit hard to peg down.
What I am articulating is a focus of the management team to shorten the tail on some of the lands that we are purchasing and really looking at the risk profile as we go forward.
That doesn't necessarily need a curtailment of community count expansion.
It might be a moderation of the rate of growth that you see in community count.
I think we have articulated about an 8% growth year-over-year as we look ahead.
But I think you kind of look at that kind of pace as we go forward as well.
But it's more of the tail the duration of land that we are purchasing rather than the number of communities.
So we expect to continue to grow at a healthy pace as we go forward.
And over time where did I think of things for this management team is when we focus we succeed.
The articulation internally for our group is hey let's bring the tail down let's bring the risk profile down let's continue to grow our business but let's not get out over our skis as the market matures as land pricing matures and let's continue to grow the business as the market permits.
Great and then as a follow-up I guess you know you have clearly articulated a number of different things happening across specific markets.
As you think about those relative to your investments where you looking to grow the most as you look out to the deals that you are instructing your field reps to go after this year? Okay.
So a piece of your question cut out on us but I think your question is where are we looking to grow the most? And the answer to that question is almost a quarter-by-quarter evaluation on a market-by-market basis.
And it's what we probably do the best.
It's all about allocating capital to where that capital is performing the best based on the reading that we are getting from the field from the traffic that's coming in.
The market that is healing and that is moving forward well is going to get more capital allocated to it.
The market where we see patterns of pullbacks patterns of change in the markets in the negative we are going to be investing less capital.
So right now we are kind of if you think about the things that we have already talked about we are kind of in a wait-and-see mode relative to Houston.
We want to see a little bit more evidence of well how the market is going to present itself and so we are probably investing less capital there.
We have excellent positioned to build on in the meantime.
There are other markets like the Bay Area that we continue to have a strong view about and we are probably investing more capital there.
But it is a regular assessment that we put in place through our top management team communicating with the divisions based on the patterns that we are seeing in the field.
Okay.
Thank you.
We have a question from Michael Roxland with Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
It's actually Peter Gallo on for Mike.
Good morning or afternoon at this point.
Just a couple of housekeeping questions for Rialto on the advance accrued interest.
Is that a one time thing for this quarter? Or is that something we should think about as a recurring cash flow going forward? What's the best way to look at that? So for this quarter it represented the last two-and-a-half years worth of taxable income calculation.
So it will be recurring but at a significantly lower amount as you look at next year.
It's going to continue through next year as well.
Okay and then just second I know in your comments Stuart I think you called out some statistics on Next Gen in terms of order growth.
Do you have anything similar any sort of commentary around your Everything's Included? Everything's Included has continued to be a Lennar marketing avenue that is a differentiator.
Well we haven't gotten an Everything's Included question in a long time.
But we still think that sets us apart from the market in a positive and constructive way.
I always think that plagiarism is the best form of flattery and when we see other builders jumping on that kind of program which is what we have started to see.
We know that it's something that attracts a lot of attention and sets us apart in a very positive way.
Our Everything's Included program is something that we focus on a lot.
We think that we can be a lot more efficient and effective in harvesting cost reductions as we deliver greater quality and a broader product offering.
There certainly is segment of the market that wants to customize.
We are not the builder for that segment of the market but we do offer an extraordinary value with our Everything's Included program and that value is what has driven our sales as well it has.
Even with that said our Everything's Included program as we have grown it over time does enable some personalization so we broaden our offering to a solid range of the market and certainly enables us to capture more than our share of the business.
Great.
Thanks.
Okay and let's make the next the last question.
Our final question comes from Jade Rahmani with KBW.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
Sure.
Just wanted to ask on Rialto.
If you could comment on your view of the risk retention rules and whether you see this is a benefit to Rialto given the five-year holding period and the 5% risk retention requirement? So happy that we have on there.
Jeff can really chime in.
Go ahead Jeff.
Yes.
Actually from our perspective we look at it as a big positive.
In terms of the competitive setup there it's going to be difficult for a lot of folks to do that given some of the hedge funds that have come in because of the five-year retention.
So we think that that's number one is very good.
And then number two is the 5% rule.
We have a multi-disciplinary sort of fund raising capability with our investors that look for returns that go form one end of the spectrum to the other.
So I think that we are going to see pretty uniquely qualified to be a buyer there.
And we also expect that before the rules go into effect which is now a little bit less than two years that there will be a rush to securitize that we think we can increase supply.
So I think we are as far as all three of those points we are well-positioned for it.
I think that the risk retention rules really speak directly to our core competencies.
It kind of ushers things directly into the arena that we have historically operated and operated best.
So the answer is yes we think that it's a best for Rialto.
Thanks and then just secondly regarding the cash flow that you expect to get back from Rialto? How do you see redeploying that capital? Would it be redeployed into Rialto? Or into Lennar's other businesses? Look Rialto has really taken on a mature positioned within the company.
Rialto is the ultimate asset light model today.
We have not been investing primary capital in deals in any significant way through Rialto.
We have invested and will continue to invest in the funds that we create and participate as a limited partner in those fund even as we act as the general partner as well.
But those private capital funds are the primary source of investment for Rialto and really mark the future for the company.
So the Rialto strategy has more in the direction that we wanted it to over the past years and Rialto is positioned to carry forward with very limited need for capital.
So we expect that that capital will be returned to the parent company and will be part of the cash flow that we have talked about earlier.
Thanks for taking the questions.
You bet.
So thank you everyone for joining us.
We look forward to moving forward and reporting on our progress through 2015.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to Lennar's first quarter earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to David Collins for the reading of the forward-looking statements.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Today's conference call may include forward-looking statements including statements regarding Lennar's business financial condition results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar's estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could affect future results and may cause Lennar's actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described in this morning's press release and our SEC filings including those under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar's Annual Report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Okay.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you David and thank you all for joining us for our first quarter conference call.
This morning I'm joined by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; Dave Collins who you've just heard from; and Diane Bessette.
Rick Beckwitt's here with Jeff Krasnoff our Chief Financial (sic) [Executive] Officer of Rialto; and Jon Jaffe our Chief Operating Officer is on the phone from California and they'll all join in for our Q&amp;A period.
This morning I'm going to be very brief with my opening remarks as I feel that our views about the market have been consistently expressed on our prior calls.
Bruce is going to jump in with our financial detail and then as always we'll open up for Q&amp;A.
And we'd like to request that during Q&amp;A as always each person please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
So let me go ahead and begin and I'll begin by saying that of course we're very pleased to report another quarter of performance for Lennar with each of our major segments performing as expected.
In spite of some very difficult weather conditions in various parts of the country that have limited both sales and pushed back production our first quarter results demonstrate that Lennar is very well positioned to continue to perform extremely well in current market conditions and we continue to execute our balanced operating strategy.
Consistent with our prior conference call messages we continue to believe that we are still in the early stages of a protracted slower-than-history-would-suggest housing recovery and an early read from this year's spring selling season suggest that the market is continuing to improve at a very steady pace.
This recovery continues to be driven forward by a strong backlog of pent-up demand for housing that is constrained by the mortgage market.
Pent-up demand is derived from a now multi-year production deficit that is continuing to grow even at current production levels.
At the same time volume growth has been constrained by overly conservative lending standards a regulatory environment that discourages mortgage lending and a negative consumer bias overhang against homeownership.
Accordingly we've seen and continue to see outsized improvement in the rental market in terms of low vacancies and higher rental rates.
This trend of course has benefited our multifamily strategy rather dramatically but also sets the stage for further improvement in the for-sale market as new households looking for a place to live compare monthly payments.
While the relationship between pent-up demand rental rates and mortgage availability continues to direct the housing market it's becoming more apparent that the mortgage market is loosening incrementally with time and enabling more demand to be realized as household formation begins to return to more normalized levels.
We have believed and we continue to believe that the downside in the housing market is very limited and the upside is very significant.
We believe that the market is downside supported by the many years of production deficits that have yielded a limited supply of both rental and for-sale housing in the country.
Any pullback in the housing market would be short-lived as there's a need for shelter across the country and there's very little inventory and almost no likelihood of mortgage foreclosures given the stringent underwriting standards of the past years.
And while demand has remained constrained by impaired consumer psychology burdensome mortgage underwriting standards and banking regulations buyers have continued to steady return to homeownership as the market opens up driven by low interest rates defining lower monthly payments versus the cost realities of a higher price and undersupplied rental market.
The recent program changes by FHFA and HUD aimed at bringing buyers back to the market with the consumers' stimulus provided by lower gas prices and employment and wages slowly mending and with lower interest rates driving greater affordability and with that multi-year deficit in production the upside in housing continues to seem very large.
Even with the ongoing questions raised about markets like Houston given the sharp drop in oil prices there are strong countercurrents to act as partial offsets.
Lower gasoline prices and growing consumer confidence are netting an overall stronger market condition to pick up some of the pullback from the oil complex.
At 1 million homes of multifamily and single-family production per year we are continuing to undersupply the demographic needs of the country and this will have to be made up.
The shallow slope of this recovery likely provides a steady backdrop for market share expansion in fragmented industry and an extended recovery for those like Lennar who are able to participate by leveraging a strong capital base.
I would suggest that this continues to be a very healthy environment for well-capitalized national builders and for our company in particular.
Our results for the first quarter reflect our success in positioning our company across the platform and I'll let Bruce now give you the detail.
Thanks Stuart and good morning.
Our net earnings for the first quarter increased 47% on a 21% increase in revenues.
Revenues from home sales increased 23% in the first quarter driven by a 20% increase in wholly-owned deliveries and a 3% year-over-year increase in average selling price to $326 000.
Our gross margin on home sales in the first quarter was 23.1%.
Just as a reminder I highlighted in our fourth quarter conference call that our gross margin percentage is expected to be 24% for the full year in 2015 and the first quarter is seasonably the lowest.
This quarter was in line with our expectation and we are still on track with our goal of 24% gross margin for the full year.
The prior year's gross margin percent of 25.1% included a $5.5 million benefit relating to insurance settlement which benefited the gross margin percent in the prior year by 50 basis points.
Sales incentives declined sequentially to 6.3% from 6.6% in the fourth quarter while being flat with last year.
The gross margin decline year-over-year was also due to a moderation in pricing power at the same time as labor material and land costs increased.
Year-over-year labor and material costs are up 6.6% to approximately $50 per square foot but are flat sequentially with the fourth quarter.
This flattening represents a focused effort of reducing cost due to commodity declines primarily in copper and steel.
We will continue to focus on cost reductions including those related with petroleum-based products and lumber.
However we are still seeing offsetting labor and manufacturing pressures.
We also saw an increase in cost for manufacturers to comply with stricter environmental regulations as well as the shortage of transportation in the trucking industry.
SG&amp;A improved 40 basis points year-over-year and approximately 30 basis points of that improvement was due to a reduction in insurance reserves.
We have also recognized operating leverage on our corporate G&amp;A line which improves 10 basis points to 2.7% as a percent of total revenues.
Gross profits on land sales totaled $12.1 million for the quarter versus $16.1 million in the prior year.
Equity in earnings from unconsolidated subs was $28.9 million in the first quarter as previously highlighted.
This was all driven by El Toro joint venture selling in 14 neighborhoods totaling 921 home sites in the next section of El Toro.
Lennar will build on four of the 14 neighborhoods and therefore Lennar's profit of $31.3 million only includes the portion related to the 600 home sites sold to third parties.
Other income was up to $6.3 million this quarter from $2.9 million in the prior year.
The increase was due to a club sale at one of our communities that netted a $6.5 million gain.
Other interest expense declined year-over-year from $12.7 million in the prior year to $4.1 million in the current year as we continue to open communities and increase the qualifying assets eligible for capitalization.
This quarter we opened 58 new communities to end the quarter with a net of 626 active communities which is up 14% over the prior year.
Our new order dollar value was up 25% and our sales pace was flat year-over-year at 2.8 sales per community per month.
In the first quarter we purchased 4 200 home sites totaling $421 million versus $505 million in the prior year's quarter.
This is consistent with our strategy articulated last year to softly pivot from longer-term land parcels to shorter-term deals.
Our home sites owned and controlled now total 163 000 home sites of which 133 000 are owned.
Our Financial Services business segment had strong results with operating earnings increasing to $15.5 million from $4.5 million in the prior year.
Mortgage pre-tax income increased to $14 million from $6.5 million in the prior year.
The increased mortgage earnings were due to higher volume as mortgage originations increased 84% to $1.6 billion from $886 million in the prior year.
The increased volume resulted from a mini-refinancing in the first quarter as well as more home closings by Lennar and a higher capture rate of Lennar homebuyers.
The capture rate of Lennar homebuyers improved to 79% this quarter from 75% in prior year.
In 2014 our mortgage subsidiary expanded its retail channel with the acquisition of Pinnacle Mortgage and by opening branches on the East Coast and this expansion positioned us well to capitalize on the refinance activity that we did see in the first quarter.
Although we don't expect the refinance activity to continue at the same pace as the first quarter we are well positioned to capture purchase business as the housing recovery continues.
Our title company's profit increased to $2.1 million in the quarter from a loss of $1.6 million in the prior year.
And this is primarily due to higher volume and benefits from strategic initiatives including closing less productive branches over the past year.
Our title team continues to focus on maximizing the title opportunities with our ancillary businesses.
Turning to Rialto the Rialto business segment generated operating earnings totaling $4.6 million compared to $2.6 million in the prior year.
Both amounts are a net of non-controlling interests.
The composition of Rialto's $4.6 million of operating earnings by the three types of investment before G&amp;A and Rialto interest expense are as follows.
First the investment management business contributed $24.4 million of earnings which includes $2.7 million of equity in earnings from real estate funds and $21.7 million of management fees and other which included $6.5 million of a carried interest distribution from Rialto real estate funds and that's to cover the income tax obligation resulting from the allocations of taxable income to Rialto.
The carried interest for Rialto Real Estate Fund I under a hypothetical liquidation now stands at $105 million and that's a footnote which we don't book until we actually receive the cash.
Second Rialto Mortgage Finance contributed $318 million of commercial loans into two securitizations resulting in earnings of $9.7 million for the quarter before their G&amp;A expenses.
And then third our direct investments had a loss of $2 million for the quarter.
And again we expect most of these direct investments to be monetized by the end of next year.
Rialto's G&amp;A and other expenses were $20.7 million for the quarter.
And interest expense excluding our warehouse lines was $6.8 million.
Our Multifamily operations have grown to over 200 associates in regional offices nationwide.
We currently have seasoned professionals in divisional offices in Atlanta Boca Raton Charlotte Washington DC Chicago Dallas Denver Phoenix Orange County San Francisco and Seattle.
We ended the quarter with 24 projects under construction two of which are in lease-up totaling over 6 600 apartments with a total development cost of approximately $1.6 billion.
We also have one completed fully leased and operating student housing community that serves the students attending the University of Texas at Austin.
Including these communities we have a diversified development pipeline that exceeds $5.5 billion and over 20 000 apartments.
In the first quarter we had an operating loss of approximately $5.7 million.
And despite this loss we still expect to be profitable for the full year benefiting from the sale of about five communities in the last six months of the fiscal year.
As we have discussed in the past we have been merchant building our apartment communities with third-party institutional capital on a deal-by-deal basis.
We are continuing to explore potential financing structures that would allow us to hold our completed and leased apartment communities as a portfolio to capture the recurring income stream from this portfolio.
Turning to the balance sheet our balance sheet and liquidity remained strong in the quarter as our Homebuilding cash balance ended the quarter at $584 million.
We had $250 million outstanding under our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility.
And our leverage improved by 60 basis points year over year as our Homebuilding net debt-to-total capital was reduced to 47.9%.
During the quarter we added on $250 million to our 4.5% senior notes due November 2019 at a yield of 4.4% and we continue to reduce our borrowing rate as the company's financial condition strengthens.
We grew stockholders' equity to approximately $5 billion at quarter end and our book value per share increased to $24.13.
And then last I'd like to summarize what was said on the call regarding goals for 2015 and an update from what we said on our fourth quarter conference call.
One deliveries.
We're still on track to deliver between 23 500 and 24 000 homes for 2015.
The severe weather conditions in the first quarter have delayed some construction activities which will slightly reduce our backlog conversion ratio to 80% for Q2 and 80% to 85% for Q3.
But we will pick that up and we are increasing our fourth quarter conversion ratio to 95% to 100%.
Second gross margin.
We still expect our gross margins in 2015 to average 24% for the full year and the gross margins will vary throughout the year depending on product mix with the fourth quarter still expected to be the highest gross margin percent for the year.
Third we still expect to see 15 basis points to 25 basis points of potential improvement for the SG&amp;A on corporate G&amp;A combined categories.
Fourth Financial Services.
We are increasing our goal for this segment due to the strong refinance environment as the start of the year.
We now expect to earn $95 million to $100 million for the full year but remaining quarterly amounts are expected to be spread similar to the proportions of last year.
Rialto we still expect a range of profits between $30 million and $40 million for the year and it's heavily weighted to the fourth quarter.
Multifamily we are still expecting five buildings to be sold in 2015 all expected in the second half of the year with the 2015 profit still expected to be between $15 million and $18 million and that will depend on the timing of these building sales.
Joint venture and land sales we still expect to have $10 million of joint venture profit in the second quarter and this is primarily due to our share of the profit from the El Toro land sale to Broadcom which did close in the month of March and that's on track as we said last quarter.
There are no other significant transactions in Q3 or Q4 in the JVs and we're on track with approximately $25 million of wholly-owned land sale profit for the year with the bulk of the remaining land profit to be in our fourth quarter.
Our tax rate for 2015 is now expected to do in the mid 34% range and our community count is on target to hit 675 by the end of year.
So we are well positioned for this year to deliver strong top line and bottom line growth throughout the year.
And with that let me turn it over for questions.
Our first question is from Bob Wetenhall RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey congratulations everyone.
Great start to the spring selling season.
I just wanted to ask your average selling prices on new orders were up 5.5% which we thought was really good.
I wanted to ask you.
How are you thinking about balancing price and pace in the current environment? Are you seeing pricing power and how much pushback are you getting from buyers? Hi Bob.
It's Rick Rick Beckwitt.
We're still continuing to balance price and pace specifically in a couple of markets where demand is really strong and we've got excellent land positions.
As you look at the pricing increase year-over-year a component of that was mix.
We had a higher level of deliveries coming from California some of it was just pure price increase so it's a balance.
Okay.
And with the order growth that you're seeing right now and just thinking about Bruce's gross margin guidance of 24% do you expect the majority of the expansion in gross margin to come from volume-driven operating leverage or is that going to be more a reflection of the growth in average selling prices you're seeing? Thanks very much and good luck.
It's going to be driven by the mix Bob.
It's not going to be driven primarily by average selling price increases.
Okay thanks very much.
We get a higher a level of field absorption so some of it is volume-driven Bob.
Next question from Haendel St.
Juste Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Anyone there? All right.
We ought to go onto the next one.
Michael Rehaut JPMC.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks.
Good morning everyone and congrats on a solid quarter.
First question I had was on Houston.
Did the 7% decline in orders – obviously you still had a great overall order growth number also noticed the 4% drop in Southeast Florida.
Perhaps you could talk about those two regions in terms of was that more community count-driven.
We were just through Houston and saw a little bit of perhaps the slower pace in February but really did very very much by sub-market and positioning et cetera.
But any comments on Houston and for that matter Southeast Florida what was driving the order trends during the quarter would be helpful? Okay this is Rick.
First let's talk about Houston because I know it's in everybody's thoughts right now.
I'd tell you that across the board we had good traffic in all price points.
Definitely stronger traffic and absorption at the sub $350 000 price point; real real strong between $200 000 and $300 000.
As you got above the $400 000 $500 000 price point it's slowing down.
Traffic is still strong.
The buyers there are just more cautious in pulling the trigger on the sales side.
But we really think that the Houston market is a strong market.
We decided not to chase prices down and focus more on gross margin in Houston.
We're very positive on the Houston market.
With regard to Southeast Florida that really is just the timing of communities.
If you look at the average sales price it was up 9% year-over-year in the market that we chose to focus more on pricing power there as opposed to sales absorptions.
Great.
No that's very helpful.
I guess just second question on pricing and incentives broadly speaking.
We've heard that the spring is off generally speaking to a solid start; obviously your comments echo that.
At the same time given how 2014 for many builders was a little bit of an uneven year I think at this point from what we understand builders are still a little bit hesitant to exact any material price increases or dial back incentives.
But perhaps as the spring progresses if there's still kind of a solid pace that you could see that a little bit more into April and May is that kind of similar to what you're seeing in the market and an approach that you might take if you continue to see overall – the solid start to the spring progress? Mike I go back to the scene that I have advanced pretty much quarter-after-quarter.
And now for the past few years and that is that we're operating in this kind of narrow channel of improvement that's defined by a production deficit across the country and constrained mortgage availability.
So you have demand pushing up you've got constraint pushing down and all of this is happening with inventories very very tight across the country both on the existing and the new home and the rental side of the equation.
So the market condition generally has been choppy.
It's been moving inside the channel a little bit up a little bit down and you're seeing some of that.
And of course as you go through the first quarter you've seen some rather severe weather conditions in a number of parts of country that have really limited the ability of buyers to get out of their home and go look for a home if they're even inclined to.
And you've not just seen that in the Northeast where it's been kind of most aggressively articulated.
It's in Dallas.
It's been in Atlanta.
We've had weather conditions in a number of places across the country.
So even in the context of some constraining weather conditions the market is still presenting itself and early signs of the spring are showing themselves to be steady improvement in the marketplace continuing along that trajectory of an improving recovering housing market constrained by the mortgage market limited inventories and still primarily defined by a production deficit that has been growing over the years that is pushing where pent-up demand is pushing production upward.
We think this is a terrific tailwind for the industry and as we look ahead to the spring selling season we're going to be balancing price and pace as we have done in a very methodical way.
I think most builders will be doing the same.
And while the market might move up might move down a little bit we see steady improvement.
Great thanks so much guys.
Next question from Haendel St.
Juste Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Sorry about the technical difficulties earlier.
Okay.
So wanted to ask about the absorption pace.
How did that spread throughout quarter and how is it turning currently? And can you talk about what buyer segments are currently driving the orders and the absorption growth? Let me ask Jon to lay in on that.
Well as you would expect in our first quarter we saw sequentially for the months order pace improve as you move from December January into February.
And then as we've been saying it's really submarket by submarket "saw" the strongest absorption improvements in the coastal markets particularly places like California parts of Florida up into the Carolinas which is what we expect as we've seen looking backwards in this recovery as the coastal market seem to be outperforming from an absorption standpoint.
Okay I appreciate that.
On the deliveries beat was that just driven by higher demand for spec or the platform just running better maybe perhaps than you expected during the quarter? That's a combination of the two.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you.
Next question from Ivy Zelman Zelman &amp; Associates your line is open.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
It's Alan on for Ivy and congrats on the quarter.
First question Rick I was hoping maybe just to follow up quickly on the Southeast Florida orders there.
The order pace this quarter was well below where you've been running in the back half of last year.
And you mentioned the timing effect there from some communities.
If we look at the trends through 2014 it looks like you had a similar drop-off in 1Q and then activity ramps pretty significantly through the remainder of the year there.
So as you think about the pipeline of community openings in that market specifically should we expect to see a similar trend this year or is this kind of first quarter run rate just based on your pipeline a more realistic run rate through the year? Some of it's going to be – it's really dependent on when we can get the big communities open.
We went through some rather large high productive communities last year and we've got similar battleships opening this year throughout Southeast Florida.
Unfortunately right now there we're getting the models open getting the monuments the entries opened and it's going to be probably a couple of quarters until that pace picks back up.
But as we move into 2016 you'll see a lot of activity coming from Southeast Florida.
It will still be a really good year high margins just a little bit on the flat side for the year.
Got it I appreciate that color.
And second Stuart there have been some articles written about a community opened recently in Nevada geared towards rentals on the single-family side.
So I was curious if you can give some color there about what the company strategy is whether this is a one-off or whether that's a business you're looking to get into.
Look as you know we started years ago focusing on the rental component of the market recognizing that the mortgage constraint would play a big role in the way that the housing market would recover.
Frankly we didn't anticipate that the regulatory environment would constrain the mortgage market as much as it has.
And as the market has presented we've continued to grow a rather sizable apartment rental business.
We've built a platform that as Bruce articulated is very large across our geography.
And we're not only pleased with the $5.5 billion pipeline that we've put together and we think that even to our underwriting we're seeing upside just based on low vacancies and high rental rates.
The inability of the American family to access the mortgage market is really developing an appetite for single-family product though it might have to be realized in a rental format.
And so we are experimenting with that format as a hybrid between our for-sale and our multifamily apartment community program.
And it has received a little bit of publicity but we are building our first such community to see what the acceptance is in the marketplace.
Whether it becomes part of a trend whether it becomes part of a program going forward we have yet to see.
But as is typical with us we are innovative.
We like to think of ourselves as thinking a little bit outside the box forward thinking and we think that this community could be representative of somewhat of a trend in the country and we'll wait and see.
From an upside standpoint we look at the community as a rental opportunity that can be very interesting.
On the downside if the rental concept doesn't work as well as we'd like we can always convert to a for-sale platform.
So it's really right in our wheelhouse to be working on this and we think it presents a really unique and interesting opportunity for the future.
Sounds exciting good luck.
Thank you.
Next question from Stephen East Evercore ISI Group.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Stuart you've talked a few times about mortgages et cetera.
I guess a compound question here.
One who's really providing the mortgages as you look across the country? Is this coming from the bigger guys in the world or is it just the smaller guys and non-banks? And then if you just look at what you think the market – what type of growth rates the market could support this year say over the next 12 months or so what's limiting factor? Is it the mortgage availability or would it be more on the land or labor? How do you all look at it right now? First of all as it relates to the mortgage market Stephen there's clearly somewhat of a shift going on.
The traditional banking world is really constrained in its view of the mortgage market and the regulatory environment.
But really that regulatory environment spreads or is equally applied across the mortgage platform.
Even if you're an unconventional lender you have to look at the regulations around mortgage origination and some of the punitive constraints of the environment as a limiting factor.
And it's not just at the origination point; it's all the way through to the servicing platforms out there.
So the mortgage market even though we're seeing that originations are finding their way across smaller lenders and less traditional lenders in the market at large it doesn't move the needle dramatically to see the shift from big banks to others in terms of healing the mortgage market.
It's more about the regulatory environment softening the punitive side being softened and lenders just feeling their way through this kind of turbulent landscape.
So I still view the mortgage landscape as the primary limiting factor.
Now a secondary limiting factor because we have been constrained in production the land development machine has not reemerged in this housing recovery in full force.
So it takes time to get land entitled.
I keep going back to the fact that there is a land shortage and that means entitled developed land is in short supply.
So if you see an uptick in the marketplace land will continue to be a constraining factor.
And then the question of materials and labor I think they're subsidiary questions.
I think to the extent that demand reveals itself labor can be sourced with higher wages materials.
There are clearly some constraints on the trucking side and maybe the import markets are little bit more complicated.
But I think your primary constraining factors are the mortgage market number one and then land number two.
Okay thanks.
And then the other question I had if you look at really two things.
One your apartment sales that you got coming in the back half if you could give us a rundown on location and what you think the general cap rate will be.
And then what you think your cash flows – are you cash flow neutral this year? Do you turn positive in 2016 with the soft pivot and how much of it would probably revolve around the sales of the apartments? First of all Steve I want to recognize that you're asking compound questions which really kind of defeat the policy of one question.
I've got to squeeze them in somehow.
That's right.
So in terms of apartment sales I'm not going to give specific cap rates and sale numbers.
What I will say is that our performance in the apartment segment is defined by low vacancies higher rental rates than we had originally underwritten.
And as we look to sell apartment communities just remember that we are in partnership in those apartment community so we don't have the complete unilateral ability to define a sell and define the exact timing of that sale.
So this is going to unfold and we've been very cautious about describing the parameters around how sales will actually happen because we recognize it's an imperfect landscape right now.
And of course in order to model it you who do will analyze what we're trying to do.
We're looking for some certainty as to how many and what the cap rate is and what the profitability will be.
And we've realized there is a little tug and pull there.
We're trying to give you some general parameters recognizing that the specifics are going to define themselves at that time.
And as we go through some of our sales we'll start to develop some more specific parameters which will be helpful to you when we get into 2016.
Okay fair enough.
And then the second part of that compound question was? Just looking at your cash flows for this year and next year.
So Bruce do you want to talk about that? Sure.
So as we've been saying we think 2015 we are going through the soft pivot.
So depending on some of the timing of some of the land acquisitions we're getting to a point where by the end of this year we think we'll be in a position of turning positive cash flow and into next year.
And most of that is driven by the soft pivot because the ancillary businesses as you go through this year are pretty much self-funding.
We're putting a little bit more into Multifamily this year.
But we expect as we get into 2016 those businesses will be returning cash and self-funding.
So the soft pivot is what's going to be driving us to get to cash flow positive as we get towards the end of this year.
All right I appreciate all the help.
Thank you guys.
Thanks Steve.
Next question from Stephen Kim Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
This is actually Trey on for Steve.
Going back and touch a little bit on the mortgage market that you guys have talked about a few times you actually early May published some FICO and DTI data regarding February with both tightening on the margin.
Do you believe this is representative of what's currently going on in the underwriting market or do you think this is more a reflection of people walking through the door? And are you seeing similar trends coming from your customers? I saw that.
I don't know really what to make of it.
It seems fairly – it seems that the data that's reported is really kind of it's within a range.
I don't know that we – I don't know that I could see a trend from that.
It seems to us as we look at our book of business that still – that the mortgage market is opening at a margin.
And the fact that FICO scores might move a little bit one way or another I think is all part of that process of one step forward two steps back but gently improving as we go forward.
So I just don't know that I would read too much into that data.
Inc.</span></strong> All right thanks for that.
Now speaking to your ancillary businesses a little bit could you talk about the recent departures at Rialto and what most excited you about that business? And also regarding FivePoint what do you consider the timing for the next group of lot sales to be released there? Okay.
Let me let Jeff talk about the departures and then we'll talk about FivePoint.
Rialto Capital Management</span></strong> This is Jeff.
And as far as the departures go I think it could go probably a lot more for us than really what the price made a bigger deal of it than it really was at the end of the day.
And we have about 400 folks in Rialto the team that was – that left has already been replaced most of it almost a 100% of it internally with a group of individuals that have been growing up in the business and actually been in the business even longer.
So from that perspective we're feeling really good about it in terms of where we are.
Let me just add to that.
I think if you look at the markets in which Rialto operates most of the participants are groups that have been homegrown here within the Lennar environment.
Jeff and his senior management team are I would say the educators of the industry and I would say that we have the recipe here.
Some of the ingredients sometimes leave the building but we can replace the ingredients.
And we have a great and stable program at Rialto that continues to move forward.
I wouldn't read too much into the departure of any one or any few associates either in the Rialto platform or the Lennar platform and again as Jeff said I think the press made a lot of much ado about very little.
Let me turn to Jon to answer the part about FivePoint.
Thanks Stuart.
We're very excited where FivePoint is positioned right now.
Most of the activity is occurring at El Toro in Orange County.
We reported sales have gone extremely well in the first phase which is virtually sold out now.
We reported closing to builders of most of the villages in the second phase in our first quarter.
The last two villages we expect to close this quarter with the builders starting their models and production this quarter and a grand opening sometime mid-summer.
We also just closed at the beginning of this quarter commercial transaction with Broadcom that we're very excited about bringing a commercial component on into El Toro.
And we expect the next major section of El Toro to come to market at the end of the year probably will fall into our first quarter for fiscal 2016.
And activity continues to go very strongly up in San Francisco at Hunters Point the shipyard.
We're sold out of our first buildings there first 88 homes and we'll be releasing our next homes in the coming couple months and continue to start more construction at that site as well as we announced our large joint venture with Macerich to develop a large retail mall there which has spurred a lot of interest from other commercial players in our activity there.
And we did commence deconstruction of Candlestick Park this quarter and we'll have that completed by next quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thanks guys.
It's very helpful.
Okay.
Next question from Jade Rahmani KBW.
Your line is open.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
On Rialto I wanted to also ask about if you could provide an update on your thinking regarding what you might eventually choose to do with that business whether it'd be spin-off sale or combination with another entity.
It seems that in the current regulatory environment with the Basel III increased capital requirements for banks in the Dodd-Frank risk retention rules that go into effect late next year.
Non-banking platforms like Rialto should stand to benefit and also should see not only market growth opportunities but interest from other players.
So want to see if you could an update on how you're thinking about it.
Well listen.
Jade part of our thesis with Rialto was as we've grown it has definitely marched along the lines of recognizing that the constraints around the banking industry presented a distinct opportunity for our Rialto platform and we're pretty enthusiastic about the prospects for future.
To the first part of your question we have built Rialto as distinct from when we built LNR in the 1990s.
We built Rialto as a segregated segment with a full complement of management team that was disentangled from the Lennar platform.
It was designed to be built with full optionality.
As we developed maturity in the business we would have the ability to either spin to IPO to combine to sell to do any number of things.
As we look at Rialto today given its current maturity given the prospects for its future it's a platform that we continue to like having the ability to hold within the company and wait for the right next move to present itself.
So we don't feel any urgency in doing something immediately with that segment.
We think that it continues its progression of coming right along with a tremendous opportunity set in front of it.
And there will be an intersection of a right next move for Rialto as we continue to grow it and as the market continues to ripen and present itself.
So think about it in terms of having an excellent operating platform with perfect optionality to be able to realize its maximum value as the market recognizes what its potential is.
And that's exactly how we think about it and we couldn't be happier with the way it's positioned.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks for that.
Just a small follow-up on the risk retention rules.
Since Rialto is buying B-pieces at this point through funds I just wanted to get clarification on whether that would meet the risk retention requirements.
Rialto Capital Management</span></strong> Jade it's Jeff.
As we understand them it would.
It clearly would.
And we believe that in terms of how we're positioned and in terms of the types of investors that we have we're expecting that to be an advantage for us as we go forward and when the rules actually begin from there.
And I think that like the mortgage the residential mortgage environment risk retention rules across all asset classes are continuing to evolve.
I think the initial intent or the initial concept of risk retention proved to be a limiting factor to the evolution of markets.
And in order to keep markets moving and working properly those rules have had to morph.
As we sit right now we think we're a beneficiary of whatever those risk retention rules are because we have the unique ability to match up special servicing with the acquisition of the underlying collateral of the B-piece.
And so however it evolves we'll be compliant and we'll be a primary engine.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for taking my questions.
Sure.
Next question from Adam Rudiger Wells Fargo Securities.
Hi this is Joey Matthews on for Adam.
My question is probably for Rick or Jon in regards to your mothballed asset strategy.
You said last quarter you expect about 10% of your deliveries this year to be from those previously mothballed assets.
I'm wondering what percentage of your deliveries in Q1 were from those previously mothballed assets and how any difficulties you're having developing that land to get it ready to open communities.
We're looking at the number right now but my guess is it's somewhere around that 10% number.
Just a little below 10% 8% to 10%.
And then...
And...
Go ahead.
...there are really no difficulties in bringing those online.
We've been making sure that we're on top of keeping entitlements in place land ready to go.
So as the market recovers they're in existing divisions.
We're able to we've got product in our portfolio and able to methodically bring those online.
And since those are probably in B and C locations I would guess.
How have absorptions in those communities progressed this quarter? Jon? Consistent with the marketplace.
Sometimes they're in B and C locations sometimes a little bit better just depending on when they were acquired.
We held on to mostly our better locations as we went through the liquidation of many of those assets in the downturn particularly with our large transaction.
So we're finding that they perform fairly consistently with other communities in those areas and we're not experiencing any activity that are really in far outreaching areas.
So I don't have any color on something that would be in a true tertiary market.
Great thank you.
All right and why don't we go ahead and take our last question? Your last question from Michael Dahl Credit Suisse your line is open.
Hi thanks.
I wanted to go back to – I think Rick made a comment earlier in response to a Houston comment and make sure we understood the context around it.
You said you chose not to chase pricing down.
Is that a comment relating to just your mix of communities not shifting towards the lower end or competitively were you seeing more discounting in that market? A lot of times when you have a bunch of builders in a market where there's a lot – there's headline oil everyday in the paper some of the smaller less capitalized builders get nervous with regard to what they do with inventory.
We've taken the position that we've got great quality assets in the right locations so there's no reason to adjust pricing just because other builders that maybe in tertiary areas are bringing their prices down.
So we've just chosen to focus more on margin than on pace.
Yeah.
That smoke should clear out at some point.
And actually we view it long term – medium term as an advantage for us because we're starting to see some of the land parcels that were under contract by other folks come back to the market or people walking away from deals.
And as Stuart had said in the past a lot of times distress or perceived distress is where we really excel.
Got it.
Okay that is helpful.
Secondly I think Bruce in some of your opening remarks you made some references to focused efforts on some of the material costs.
And I guess from manufacturers you've kind of heard mix.
Some are still staying hey our feedstock cost hasn't really flowed through to us yet.
So could you give any more color on just how those conversations are going and how much success you are having or expect? Let me turn it over to Jon to answer that one.
I'm sorry.
Could you repeat the question please? I apologize.
The question was around just efforts to reduce some of the input cost dependent materials that you guys use and how the conversations are going with manufacturers given some of them are still trying to claim lower feedstock hasn't flowed through to them yet.
From our vantage point we're achieving success on one hand with manufacturers and then having headwinds on another side of the equation.
The success has been with the drop in copper cost steel cost that flow through the manufacturers.
What's really been offsetting that is some new regulation that's occurred particularly on the environmental front.
So for example the Department of Energy passed new regulation at the end of last year that require side-by-side refrigerator freezers to be 25% more efficient.
So that requires them to use more the material in making the product.
So we end up with an offset.
We're really not seeing any cost savings but we are seeing not the same increase what we would have seen just been their compliance with the new regulation.
Seen the same thing with HVAC windows water heaters all subject to new regulation.
So we are – it's a daily focus for us.
We work with the national manufacturers with local suppliers local trades to find every opportunity.
Now when you look at as a percentage of what we – of our build cost copper steel are not that bigger percentage.
Lumber which is a bigger percentage we have seen that come down recently and do expect to see some benefit from that in our second third and fourth quarters.
But again you have other cost such as concrete and drywall that continue to have some pressure on them.
Okay thank you.
All right very good.
Thanks everyone for joining.
As I said before we feel that the market is continuing to present itself as improving and we look forward to reconnecting at the end of our second quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does concluded the presentation.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to Lennar's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to David Collins for the reading of the forward-looking statements.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Today's conference call may include forward-looking statements including statements regarding Lennar's business financial condition results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar's estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could affect future results and may cause Lennar's actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described in this morning's press release and our SEC filings including those under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar's Annual Report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Great.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thank you David and thank you all for joining us for our second quarter conference call.
This morning we are in New York City at our Rialto Capital office for our Board meeting yesterday and for today’s conference call.
I'm joined by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; David Collins who you just heard from; and Diane Bessette our Vice President and Treasurer.
Rick Beckwitt and Jon Jaffe are here along with Jeff Krasnoff and other members of our management team as well.
Some will join in for our Q&amp;A period.
This morning I'm going to be very brief in my opening remarks as I feel that our views about the market have been consistently expressed on prior calls.
Bruce is going to jump in and breakdown our financial detail and then as always we'll open up for Q&amp;A.
And as always we'd like to request that during Q&amp;A each person please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
So let me go ahead and begin and begin by saying that we're very pleased to report our second quarter results as we continue to perform consistently across our platform.
Our performance reflects our excellent management teams some of whom are here with us this morning executing their well-crafted operating strategy in a solid macro environment.
As we’ve grown our business in the wake of the economic downturn.
Lennar has become not only the most profitable homebuilder in the business but we continue to grow and mature our additional business segments that represent significant opportunity for the future.
Simply put Lennar has become much more than just a homebuilder.
With that said it’s still the home building macro environment that defines our core operating strategy across our company.
As we noted in many of our prior conference calls and some of our other public statements we continue to believe that we are still in the early stages of a multi-year slow but steady housing recovery.
This year’s spring selling season confirms that the market is continuing to improve at a very consistent pace.
Over the past couple of years in our conference calls and public statements we’ve noted a number of themes that define the uniqueness of this recovery and they’ve informed our operating strategies.
Let me briefly review some of those themes: First the production deficit of both rental and for sale homes relative to the need for housing in the United States continues to create pent-up demand against a very limited supply.
Without a dramatic increase in the number of homes built in this country we will continue to be short dwelling units per growing population supply is limited and demand is building.
Next the regulatory environments for mortgages remains challenging and limits the number of entrants for the for sale market.
QM and QRM rules together with ATR the ability to repay rules continue to restrict qualified purchasers from accessing the mortgage market.
While these rules have been evolving and easing at the margin they have exacerbated and already impaired consumer psychology to create a perception that home ownership just might not be desirable.
Demand is slowly coming back to the market.
Third the millennial generation is changing a lot of thinking.
Their attitudes are proving to be different and the doubling up of the millennials during the downturn will ultimately unwind and give way to household formation.
We’ve already seen evidence that this is beginning to happen and household formation is beginning to grow.
While new households might not be able to or desire to purchase a home they will need a place to live and rental might be their only option.
Fourth first time purchasers have begun coming back to the housing market more slowly than expected and more slowly than they have historically.
They’ve had the most difficult accessing the mortgage market credit limitations have been most constraining to the first time buyers and although that is beginning to open up as many have reported they are not yet jumping in to the market place and they are also the most susceptible to price and interest rate increases.
Finally a slow steady recovery with limited land supply and limited access to capital constrains the number of smaller less capitalized home builders that can compete for the smaller demand.
This has enabled the larger better capitalized builders to pick up a larger portion of the smaller pie.
Overall this is a very favorable environment to be a well-capitalized national home builder.
We have believed and continue to believe that the down side in the housing market is very limited and the up side is very significant.
We believe that the market is downside supported by the production deficit that has yielded a limited supply of both rental and for sale housing in the country.
Any pullback in the housing market will be short lived as there is a need for shelter across the country and there’s very little inventory and almost no likelihood of mortgage foreclosures given the stringent underwriting standards of the pas years.
And while demand has remained constrained buyers have continued a steady return to household formation and home ownership as the market opens up driven by consistently low interest rate and now higher wages and lower unemployment.
These are the themes that have continued to define our operating strategies across the company.
In home building we have continued to focus our attention primarily on the higher end first time buyer and the move-up market as our average sales prices reached an historical record high of $348 000 this quarter.
While approximately 25% of our home building business continues to be geared to first time home purchasers our broader new household strategy has been aimed at the rental market.
Our $6 billion apartment strategy is proving to be very well timed as rental rates are soaring and vacancies are at historical lows driven by supply-demand imbalance.
Our financial services group has continued to expand alongside our primary housing business while we’ve expanded our retail platform to become the 5<sup>th</sup> largest retail non-bank lender in the nation and we are able to capture an expanded share of the refi business as it exists.
With that large scale infill community strategy in five points we’ve positioned ourselves to benefit from some of the best located land in California as that market continues to improve.
And finally our Rialto Capital Asset Management platform enables us to invest across real estate and financial product types as an opportunistic play on this long duration recovery.
In conclusion we are very pleased to present our second quarter results this morning and we are confident that we have the right people the right programs and the right timing to continue to perform this year and in to the future.
Let me turn it over to Bruce.
Thanks Stuart and good morning.
Our net earnings for the second quarter were 183 million which is a 33% increase over the prior year.
Revenues from home sales increased 30% in the second quarter driven by a 20% increase in wholly owned deliveries and an 8% year-over-year increase in average selling price to 348 000.
Our gross margin on home sales in the second quarter was 23.8% and we are still on track with our goal of 24% for the full year.
The prior year’s gross margin percent of 25.5% included a $9.6 million benefit relating to insurance recoveries and other non-recurring items which benefited the gross margin percent by 60 basis points.
Sales incentives declined sequentially from 6.3% in the first quarter to 5.8% in the second quarter and from 5.9% in the prior year.
The gross margin decline year-over-year was also due to increase land cost.
Year-over-year labor and material costs are up approximately 7% to $52 per square foot.
This is consistent with the year-over-year change that we noted in the first quarter.
We have a continued focused effort on reducing cost due to commodity declines primarily in lumber copper and steel.
We are still seeing offsetting labor and manufacturing pressures across products and geographies.
Our previously stated guidance was to achieve a 15 to 25 basis point improvement in the combined SG&amp;A and corporate G&amp;A lines for all of 2015.
In this quarter we exceeded that guidance as SG&amp;A improved 80 basis points over the prior year.
This was primarily driven by operating leverage resulting from this quarter’s organic growth as our 30% increase in home sale revenue came out of our existing 31 home building divisions.
Our corporate G&amp;A lines was 2.1% as a percentage of total revenues.
The operating leverage on this line was offset by increased investments in technology as we are focused on improving productivity in all aspects of our business.
Gross profit on land sales totaled 3.5 million versus 5.6 million in the prior year and equity and earnings from unconsolidated subs was 6.5 million in the second quarter which was primarily driven by the sale of commercial land at our El Toro joint venture to Broadcom.
This was partially offset by operating expenses and other joint ventures.
Other interest expense declined year-over-year from 10.3 million in the prior year to 3.8 million in the current quarter.
This quarter we opened 96 new communities to end the quarter with 667 active communities.
Our sales pace improved to 3.8 sales per community per month in the second quarter versus 3.7 in the prior year and in the second quarter we purchased approximately 6000 home sites totaling 445 million versus 379 million in the prior years’ quarter.
We have been continuing to focus on targeting shorter duration land purchases as part of our soft pivot strategy however this quarter it also included the strategic acquisition of a mixed used parcel totaling 151 million adjacent to the Tesla car plant in Fremont California.
Our home site count for owned and controlled now totals 168 000 home sites of which 133 000 are owned and 35 000 are controlled.
Our completed unsold inventory ended the quarter with approximately 1000 homes which in our normal range of one to two per community.
Our financial services business segment had strong results with operating earnings increasing to 39.1 million from 18.3 million in the prior year.
Mortgage pretax income increased to 33.5 million from 16.7 million in the prior year.
The increased mortgage earnings were due to higher volume as mortgage originations increased 72% to 2.4 billion from 1.4 billion in the prior year.
The increased volume resulted from a strong refinanced market as well as further expansion of our retail channel more home closings by Lennar and higher capture rate of Lennar home buyers.
The capture rate of Lennar home buyers improved to 82% this quarter from 77% in the prior year.
The expansion of our retail channel has positioned us to capitalize on the strong refinance market this quarter refinance volume increased by over 300% versus the prior year to 450 million in originations.
However approximately 80% of our total originations this quarter were related to purchase volume.
With the recent increase in mortgage rates we don’t expect the refinance activity to continue at the pace of the first half of this year; however we are still well positioned to capture additional purchase business as the housing recovery continues.
Our title company’s profit increased to 5.1 million in the quarter from 2.2 million in the prior year primarily due to higher volume and benefits from strategic initiatives including closing of less productive branches over the past year.
Our title team continues to focus on maximizing the title opportunities within our ancillary businesses.
Turning to Rialto our Rialto business segment generated operating earnings totaling 7.6 million compared to 13.4 million in the prior year.
Both amounts are net of non-controlling interest.
The investment management business contributed 30.4 million of earnings which includes 7.3 million of equity and earnings from the real estate funds and 23.1 million of management fees and other which included 4.8 million of a carried interest distribution from Rialto Real Estate Funds to cover the income tax obligation resulting from the allocations of taxable income to Rialto.
The carried interest for Rialto Real Estate Fund I under a hypothetical liquidation now stands at a 108 million.
Rialto Mortgage Finance continues to generate consistent earnings.
This quarter they contributed 721 million of commercial loans in to three securitizations resulting in earnings of 29 million for the quarter before their G&amp;A expenses.
Our liquidating direct investments had a loss of 3.1 million and Rialto G&amp;A and other expense were 41.9 million for the quarter and interest expense including warehouse lines was 7 million.
Rialto ended the quarter with a strong liquidity position with over 176 million of cash.
Our Multifamily operations continued to grow.
We now have over 230 associates located in regional offices nationwide.
We ended the quarter with two completed and operating communities 24 communities under construction six of which are in lease-up totaling over 6600 apartments with a total development cost of approximately 1.6 billion.
Including these communities we have a diversified development pipeline that exceed 6 billion and over 20 000 apartments.
As expected there were no sales in the second quarter and we had an operating loss of approximately 8.7 million.
Our tax rate for the fourth quarter was 34.2% and our balance sheet and liquidity remained strong as our homebuilding and cash balance ended the quarter at 639 million and during the quarter we increased our credit facility to 1.6 billion which includes a 263 million accordion and also extended the term to 2019 and reduced the interest rate.
There was 450 million outstanding under this facility at quarter end and our leverage improved this quarter as well by 50 basis points year-over-year as our homebuilding net debt-to-total cap was reduced to 47.5%.
We grew stockholders equity of 17% year-over-year to 5.1 billion and at quarter end our book value per share increased to $25.04 per share.
During the quarter we issued 500 million of 4.75% senior notes due in May of 2025.
This issuance extended our debt maturity ladder continued to reduce our borrowing rate and further strengthened the company’s financial condition.
Finally I wanted to update our goals for 2015.
Starting with deliveries; we are increasing our delivery expectations for 2015 to between 24 000 and 24 500 homes.
With the recent rains in the central region we experienced some minor construction delays at the front end of construction and therefore we are updating our backlog conversion ratio to approximately 75% for the third quarter and a range of 90%-95% for the fourth quarter.
Second we still expect our gross margin in 2015 to average 24% for the full year.
Our third quarter gross margin is expected to be close to what we just saw in the second quarter while the fourth quarter is expected to be a little bit higher.
Third we are increasing our expectations on corporate G&amp;A and SG&amp;A leverage as we are now expecting potential improvement for these combined categories to 30-40 basis points at you look at the full 2015 fiscal year.
Fourth financial services we are increasing our goal for financial services earnings to earn 100 million to 110 million for the full year included in this increase guidance is the expectation of some cooling in the strong refinance market in the second half of this year.
The remaining quarterly amounts are expected to be spread similar to last year.
Rialto is still expected to generate profits between 30 million and 40 million for the year and that’s weighted a little more heavily to the fourth quarter and our Multifamily operations as we’ve seen strong rent growth in our lease-up communities our partners have decided to maximize the sell price in two of our rental communities and therefore we are moving the sale of two communities in to early 2016.
We are now expecting three communities to be sold in 2015 one in Q3 and two in Q4.
We expect a small loss in Q3; however Q4 should mark the start of consistent quarterly profitability for our Multifamily segment.
Next our joint ventures in land sales we continue to expect closer to breakeven bottom line for our joint ventures in Q3 and Q4 and we are on track with approximately 25 million of wholly-owned land sale profit for the full 2015 with the bulk of the remainder forecasted for the fourth quarter.
Our tax rate is still expected to be between 34% and 34.5% and we are right on track to hit our goal of 675 net communities by the end of the year.
With these goals in mind and backlog dollar value up 23% we are well positioned to deliver strong topline and bottom line growth throughout the remainder of the year.
Let me now turn it back to the operator for questions.
Thanks very much guys.
Strong results good to see.
Thanks for all the details well done on the guidance.
A couple of questions the first question I think that’s probably is on everybody’s mind is with the strong order pace that you’ve seen if you could provide a little bit of color around particular market segments I would say in particular the entry level what are you seeing there in a way that you could possibly break out for us.
And then also surrounding the order question are you seeing an ability to sort of raise prices within your communities.
If you could sort of comment about that because there obviously a lot of mix shift that kind of comes in to play.
Sure Steve it’s Rick.
I would say that across the board in all product types we are getting pricing leverage.
It varies by market and by community but pretty much across the board we’ve seen pricing power.
We don’t know how much longer we’ll be able nudge prices up and consistently as we’ve done in the past balancing pace and price but we are seeing pricing power.
And some markets are much stronger California and Northern California we are seeing great strength.
We’ve seen good strength in the central part of the United States.
Sales prices were actually up in Houston as well.
So we are pretty confident that that’s going to continue.
Steve this is Stuart a lot of people are asking about the first time homebuyer and as Rick noted it’s really across the board that we are seeing improvement across markets.
That includes the first time homebuyer.
We are starting to see the first time homebuyer come back to the market place but from basically a very flat level of virtually non-existent first time homebuyer to some beginnings of improvement.
It feels a lot better it feels like the first time buyer is coming back but they are not jumping into the market still constrained by the mortgage market.
So we’ll have to kind of sit watch and wait till the next quarters to see how that first time buyer market continues to evolve.
As Rick Noted you are seeing some pricing power and the first time buyer is probably the most sensitive group to price increases and interest rate fluctuation.
So I think it’s going to be a push and pull program for some time to come as pricing power continue to be pretty strong.
Yeah absolutely that makes a lot of sense.
Thanks for that.
The second question I had I am going to jump over to the joint venture line.
I think you’d mentioned last quarter you are going to have the sale to Broadcom and that building we actually saw that when we were out there.
And you mentioned that that gain was offset by some I think you said expenses in some of the other JVs.
Can you just describe was there something that’s sort of temporary in some of those other JVs that were leading to a loss this quarter that offset the gain from Broadcom am I understanding that properly? And then also was there anything new to talk about with respect to that [parcel] [ph] that you guys were I think one of two finalists for north of San Fran.
I forgot the name of the town but if you could sort of comment on what you are thinking about the prospects for that.
Steve it’s Jon Jaffe.
We are - that’s Concord Naval Station and we are still one of the two finalist; that decision won’t be made probably until September by the City Council.
And then going back to the other expenses on the Joint venture line Steve we did have some start-up expenses with the shipyard community as we are just at the very beginning of that and that was the bulk of the offset and that’s something that you are just seeing at the beginning of that community as deliveries start to kick in later this year we don’t expect that to continue.
If we looked at just sort of following on with your ancillary businesses Stuart if you wouldn’t mind walking us through you talked about the back half of this year but as you look at ’16 with your businesses what type of cadence do you get out of apartment sales land sales coming from your JVs.
And what do you still need to do to ultimately monetize Rialto.
What type of work do you have left there to recognize some value out of it? Steve I highlighted at the beginning of this year as we came in to this year that 2015 would be a significant statement year for the ancillary businesses and in each one of them we are seeing significant moves towards maturity.
I think at FivePoint you are starting to see Hunters Point come online.
I think Bruce highlighted we’ll see deliveries as we get through the back half of this year.
We’ve seen a number of deals start to mature.
As we’ve highlighted in prior quarters and FivePoint is I think a group that most people have gone out and visited and been impressed with that progress.
I think as it relates to our apartment communities the fact that we are postponing two sales of apartments that we had expected to have this year is a distinct positive.
We have partners that are seeing the improvement in rental rates beyond our underwritten expectations and they’d like to hold on just a little bit longer.
So we are going to benefit from rental income but not from the sales of those as we had anticipated.
But we are going to see a recurring program of showing apartment communities as we go into 2016 and to sustain profitability there.
And then of course Rialto I think the exciting part of Rialto is the successful investment of the first two funds along with the mezzanine fund at very attractive return levels that really marks a reputation in the asset management business that is going to lead right in to Fund III.
We are not going to begin - we’ve begun our raise for Fund III and we’ll start to see that to come to fruition in the back part of this year.
Each of these programs is getting to a level of maturity to a point where we can start to see not only monetization on the books of the company but also strategic positioning for these companies for the future.
I can’t speak specifically about that but I think that as I said at the beginning of the year you’ll start to see those plans mature towards the back half of this year and in to 2016.
And then if you look at your land strategy and your land spend you’ve talked a lot over the last year and a half about soft pivot.
Can you give us an idea of where you are in that process how you are thinking about the market over the next few years and what that implies for your land spend not only this year but as you look in to the next couple of years.
Yeah we’ve spent a lot of time Steve on this soft pivot.
A lot of it derives from lessons learned through the last downturn.
As the management team and the corporate office and all the way through to the field we’ve been very focused on shortening what we call snout and tail the beginning and ending part of each property that we’re purchasing.
And while we still see some tremendous opportunities to purchase strategic land parcels in the market we were first to the market we have a strategic advantage in that regard.
The Fremont purchase that was highlighted by Bruce is a good example of that.
We’ve been very focused on bringing down the duration of land that we are bringing on our books unless we find a really unique opportunity as with the Fremont property.
As we go through ’15 we are continuing our soft pivot as we’ve defined it.
We are continuing to agitate around that and we feel that in our primary homebuilding business as we go in to 2016 we fully expect to be cash flow positive even while we grow and that is in large part derived from the soft pivot.
We expect as we go forward we are going to see a very strong program evolve that is driven by shorter land positions and a strong drive to push efficiencies through the system.
If I could ask you just quickly on that duration question if you look at what you are buying today versus say you rewind two years ago what would be the duration difference between those? Well you got to realize that we are looking at averages over a companywide foot print.
So the Fremont is an example of a much longer duration property but I think a very very exciting purchase.
And if you look across the platform our average duration of land is probably coming down by about a year year and a half on the purchase side as we sit right now today and as we look forward we think we will drive that duration down even further.
Steve some of the steps that we are doing is contractually.
When we were buying at pennies on the dollar several years back we were prepared to take on balance sheet and close because we got such significant discount to market.
Today rather than closing right now we are contracting to close a couple of years down and moving the land through the process.
So we are benefiting from wholesale pricing today but don’t necessarily need to come out of pocket for cash until later.
Next question comes from Mr.
Bob Wetenhall with RBC Capital Market.
Sir your line is now open.
Congratulations on a really strong quarter.
I wanted to ask about the conversion rate in 1Q in the last quarter that just passed.
It came in higher than our expectations and if Bruce may be you could touch on you mentioned rain has been an issue in terms of stopping deliveries at the schedule.
How should we think about pace as we move in to the back part of the year.
So Bob we’ve talked about in our central region that this is at the front-end of construction there was water in parts of Texas and Colorado that delayed some of the start.
So we will catch up but initially we did lower the backlog conversion ration a little bit going in to Q3.
But in total if you look at deliveries for the year we did increase them by 500 compared to the prior guidance.
Got it that’s helpful.
And I wanted to ask Stuart and Rick a question which inning of the cycle do you think we are in? You’ve been referencing the soft pivot strategy so I am just trying to access how far you are in to this cycle at this point in your estimate.
And with that being said it sounds like some very positive commentary around Multifamily business.
What’s the outlook for that in terms of retaining it or possibly spitting it out and what kind of structures are you thinking about? Thanks very much and good luck.
Good let me take that first Bob and then Rick will follow-up.
But I think we’ve said pretty consistently we think we are in the early stages of this recovery.
This has been a slow steady recovery that’s been defined by pretty shallow levels of production.
And those shallow levels of production are creating short supply for a growing demand and we think that as we look ahead this recovery remains fairly shallow sloped but consistent for a number of years to come.
So we feel that we are still in the early innings of this recovery and have been guiding our company and strategy accordingly.
Yeah I think that actually goes for the Multifamily segment as well.
The demand for rental properties today is off the chart.
So we are seeing rent growth and lease-ups much faster than what we’ve under written which is one of the reasons I would differ to the sales for two of the properties in the next couple of quarters.
As we look forward in to 2016 and beyond we’ve got about 26 properties that have the ability to be sold and monetized during the next couple of years.
That doesn’t even bring in to the question the several billions dollars of pipeline that will be started over the next couple of years.
We couldn’t be prouder of the team in what we’ve done there and we are going to have to really see what size that thing can get to and what the best options are for our shareholders.
At the end of the day just last comment on that.
At the end of the day as we’ve noted the first time home buyers just starting to come back in to the market place.
They are going to start to come back and that’s going to have that upward ripple effect of affecting first time move-ups second time move-up.
It really has an upward cascade in the market place as the first time home buyers starts to come back to the market.
This is going to be a slow process because of the mortgage market.
Again this market has got a lot of legs.
First question I had was just may be if possible a little more granularity on the Texas market.
Aside from the floods you were able to put out similar results to last quarter and just wanted to get a sense just given that it still is a topic of interest among investors.
If you could give us a feel for last quarter Houston was down 7 this quarter down 9.
So a similar rate if that was driven more by community count or sales pace.
And then across the price points or demographic segments which areas or parts of the market are stronger or weaker.
Yeah it’s Rick.
I will tell you generally Texas is a strong market.
Starting in Dallas the markets on fire we’ve got excellent positions throughout the market and we are benefiting from the strong economy that’s in Dallas and that’s really at our price point.
We have a big entry level position there and we are benefiting from that.
We’ve got move-up product and we are all over the price points.
Austin and San Antonio are good solid markets and we are well positioned there.
Houston which is in everyone’s focus its’ about the same market as it was last quarter.
If you look at our gross margins our gross margins actually increased sequentially quarter-to-quarter.
Sales were off about 9% this quarter but we couldn’t sold more homes.
We decided to focus on price as oppose to pace and we are going to continue to do that as the market evolves.
The entry level market in Houston is strong and getting stronger.
When you get to the higher price points in Houston it gets a little bit softer but that’s not all of the Houston market it depends where you are.
Closer to the oil corridor it’s a little softer.
We are seeing huge traffic in the market at those price points.
The people are cautious because they don’t know whether they will be laid off or not.
But with all that said the weather in Houston was interesting this quarter.
It was a little rainy some people heard on the news and the rains absolutely shut down the market for a number of days during the quarter.
There were days where our offices were actually shut down because there was not electricity and the floods were significant.
That impacted as Bruce highlighted some of our early stage construction later construction of course was dried in and we were able to complete those homes.
So as we look ahead and as Bruce highlighted that will affect some of our conversion ratio in the next couple of quarters.
But really pretty marginal impact in a fairly strong market.
Appreciate that and obviously your other regions are doing pretty strong right across the board.
So the diversity certainly kicks in as well.
Second question Bruce you had mentioned some of the different line items of guidance and I believer Multifamily you described the strategic position for hold-on.
I might have missed it but could you update what the outlook now is for the Multifamily earnings for the full year if you could just share that.
For the full year Mike I didn’t put a number out for the full year but we’ll be close to breakeven possibly a slight of loss now that we’ve shifted two communities in to early 2016.
But I think the key thing is that starting in Q4 we will now have a consistent program with this segment that will generate consistent profitability each quarter going forward.
I appreciate that and of course understand the strategy there.
But with that last statement though there’s been talk around whether you would hold on to these apartments and more just trying work up a lease-up and cash flow type of dynamic or continue to sell them out.
You just mentioned that with Q4 with the sale of two building in Q4 now expected that would be the start of a more consistent cash flow generator.
So is there any shift there because I think over the last quarter or two I think some of us have been hearing the possibility of maybe not selling as much as you were to expect or had initially expected in terms of actually selling the buildings but more holding on from a cash flow standpoint.
Just want to know if there’s any how you guys are thinking about that today.
We highlighted early on with our apartment program that our initial phase would be to define the business through a merchant build type program and that’s what you are seeing us move through right now is a focused merchant build program to establish a platform to define it in the mind of investor for people to understand what we were doing and how effective we can be.
We are still going through that initial phase right now but we’ve highlighted that there would be an evolution of this business as we go forward and as have achieved maturity.
You are really asking the question that how will this business mature as a business what will its prospects be how will we define a build and hold strategy.
And that’s really a question to be answered over the next quarters.
I think that we are continuing to identify that merchant build program but we’ve highlighted that through the course of this year.
As this business achieves maturity we think we’ll be able to bring clarity to how the future will be evolve for the business for this platform.
And you can expect that over the next quarters we will be able to bring that definition to you.
As it stands right now I think that we are starting to identify some elements of certainty as to profitability in the early stage and over the next quarters we’ll give better definition.
With all of that said I think that what you are seeing is a very credible program in a well-timed addressing of the market condition as they exist and we are extremely well positioned to bring that definition to this platform.
So you will see that over the next couple of quarters.
Hey guys it’s actually Allen on for Ivy so I guess this sure does apply here.
Congratulations on the great quarter.
Stuart you obviously spent a lot of time detailing the ancillary businesses and we hear the excitement there.
If we look at the earnings today I think 80%-80% plus of you earnings still comes from core homebuilding and in towns like here you are still very bullish and optimistic about the outlook there.
So as we look forward two or three years should we think about that share of earnings between homebuilding and ancillary should that look materially different or are you just kind of expecting these Multifamily Rialto to grow in line with homebuilding and the split between earnings still look pretty similar as we look at a couple of years.
Yeah so we’ve been very clear that our core business remains our homebuilding and financial services associated businesses.
And those will continue to be at the core the ancillary are opportunities for the future.
I think that as we think about our business our homebuilding business is strong it has been strong it’s assumed a leadership position in the homebuilding world and I think that Jon and Rick has done an incredible job of building a platform that’s continuing to grow and to become more efficient as we go forward.
I think that the relationship in earnings as we look ahead I don’t know that I can identify exactly what the proportions will be.
I think that one of the concerns about the ancillary businesses is that they can tend to be somewhat lumpy in the way that their earnings are presented and they are not easily modeled.
And because of that I am not easily able to model what the relationship in earnings will be as we go forward.
But as homebuilding continues to grow we think that the ancillaries are going to grow also and we can’t really lay out exactly what those proportions will be.
Got it.
I appreciate that.
And a follow-up to your comments on the cash flow and in times like I don’t know I think ’16 was the year where you expect homebuilding cash flow to start inflecting positively and for the company to be a consistent generator of cash for the next several years.
So as you think about the opportunities with that cash how would you rank where that cash might go between deleveraging M&amp;A share buybacks any other potential usage of that cash.
Well we’ve talked about this in prior calls so we do expect to be cash generator as we mature the business and those numbers should get bigger over time.
We think that the opportunity to deleverage to return cash to shareholders and to invest further in the platform that we’ve been growing are all equal consideration and I think we’ll leave those considerations open for when the time comes.
But I think that you can expect that we have a balanced mindset and thinking about each of those opportunities and that’s how we’ll run the business.
Wanted to ask about your views on consolidation in both the homebuilding sector as well as in Rialto business lines? So on the homebuilding side; we did see the Ryland and Stan-Pac combination.
Think positively at that.
With regard to though and our views on consolidation acquisition it’s a tough go for us because we are I think probably the best land acquisition machine out there.
And when you are buying companies today you are buying land assets and we had found that we are able to buy those assets through negotiations with sellers at a cheaper price than acquiring the company and paying the goodwill associated with the company.
We have continued to look at smaller acquisitions and you can and we’ll continue to do so.
But with regards to the larger public companies don’t seem to pencil out for us today.
This is Jon.
I would just add that as you look at our geographic landscape we are well positioned to markets that we want to be in.
So we don’t have the need to make an acquisitions to enter new markets or for immediately relative to deliveries.
So we are very particular about looking at these opportunities and as Rick said really don’t find that they price very well.
But listen at the same time there’s an attraction to being part of a larger homebuilder some of the smaller homebuilders might find that access to capital or [forging] these opportunities I think that we are going to continue to see consolidation in the industry.
There are likely to be larger scale combinations and may be some smaller ones.
I think that positions us particularly well.
If you ask traditionally about Rialto I think that one of the most exciting parts of Rialto is that it has become a formidable force in asset management in deploying capital.
And the management team infrastructures that Rialto has created is not immediately apparent but it presents itself as a very attractive combination M&amp;A kind of platform for a lot of opportunities out there and we continue to hold Rialto up as an opportunity that can be defined in a lot of ways not the least of which is through M&amp;A.
Last quarter I think you noted a single family rental community that you would open I was wondering if you could give an update on that and if you are seeing any indications positively or negatively towards that sector.
Listen I think that it’s one of the more interesting programs that we have inside the company and in fact this past quarter Jon Rick and myself jointly went out to review the progress on that community.
It’s an unusual engagement.
You would think that it’s kind of easy and normal to just build a rental single family community.
It’s actually a different and unique animal.
So we are going through some evaluation of how it’s working out.
The immediate review that we’ve seen out there is that it’s pretty exciting opportunity for our company.
It requires some additional thoughts some messaging of the floor plans the management program.
But in a world where single family rental is becoming a more dominant theme and the scattered single family acquirers have shown some metrics that are interesting but nonetheless the management component is complicated.
This single family rental community is really very exciting to us.
We continue to look at it continue to experiment with it and we are probably going to launch another one or two as part of our valuation as we go forward.
Can you give us a little bit of a color on the monthly progression of the order trend just as we move through the quarter any comments also you might be able to willing to share on June so far.
I guess I am just wondering if we saw any impacts from higher rates caught through the month of May any signs that higher may uphold some fin feathers in to the market just to get the front of the rate move.
Hi this is Jon.
We saw a pretty steady activity at our communities throughout the progression of the quarter.
Month-over-month they were relatively balanced so we didn’t see any big swing as commented earlier just a very healthy spring selling season with strong activity in Florida California and the part of Pacific Northwest and then very good activity in the rest of our states.
Didn’t really see any impact from the mortgage adjustment in rates as we went through the month of May and it’s typical we don’t comment on the current quarter activity.
Okay fair enough.
And relating to the mortgage market we had a recent announcement from the CFPB that they were going to postpone changes on or implementation of the [TRS] move until early October.
But that’s still on the horizon.
How do you guys gauge the potential for any market disruption related to those changes on documentation and closing procedures.
How well do you guys think buyers are prepared for that and what impact do you think might happen as a result of those changes? Well as you Buck we are capturing 82% right now of our home buying customers within our mortgage company.
So as you look at that population we feel very comfortable that our team is going to be putting through the change testing it be ready and we are very comfortable that we’ll be in good shape.
The question is for the remaining percentage whether a smaller mortgage companies or others that have to sell a home that’s just a question that we’ll have to wait and see if there is any impact there.
Internally of course we are focused on making sure that we are not as backend loaded in the last few days of a quarter or a month and trying to be proactive to accelerate that so there is minimal disruption even if some of the other mortgage companies have some issues.
Let me add to that and say that you might or might not know or the investor world might or might not know that Bruce has directly - has been kind of running the dual position of being Chief Financial Officer and running our Financial Services Group.
We’ve always had our Financial Services Group run up through our Chief Financial Officer.
But it’s more significant today because this is a rough and tumble mortgage market that is defined by a regulatory environment that has a lot of laws of unintended consequences coming through.
And the new legislation the new regulations that will come in to affect in October will have some ripple effect.
We are all over this and Bruce has been heavily focused on thinking through the nuance changes that will come in to the market in anticipation of some minor disruptions.
We’ve been fortifying our mortgage company; I think you have seen it in the results from the numbers.
But behind the scenes in the operations of our mortgage business we recognize that there is potential for disruption and we are trying to stay ahead of the curve.
So we are going to have to wait and see exactly how the implementation comes forward but we think that we are doing a lot of anticipatory work to really mute any negative impact that can come through in the back half of the year.
Thank you.
Very helpful guys.
Congratulations.
Last question.
Just building on the last [specific][ph] point do you think longer term this could sort of change the overall competitive landscape and perhaps do that such that it favors the larger builders just given your resources and abilities to help buyers with the complexity.
As I noted there are a lot of unintended consequences embedded in some of this legislation or regulation I should say.
I think in many of the instances the consequences are that larger players are benefitted and the larger player’s ability to adjust to adapt and to spend the dollars to be ahead of some of the regulatory changes works to the benefit.
We certainly think.
And given the amount of focus that Bruce has put on our Financial Services Group and preparation for the regulatory changes I think it does advantage us and thus flat the playing field.
I think the smaller homebuilders have had difficulty getting up running and engaged in a capital constrained market that has favored larger builders.
They’ve had more difficulty accessing land.
I think given the fact that we have a large mortgage subsidiary that’s able to do a large portion of our business versus a smaller builder that might have to depend on outside lenders.
I think it does additionally slant the table in the larger builders favor.
Susan this is Jon I will just add to Stuart’s comment that the mortgage process today is very invasive very frustrating for the homebuyer and the close working relationship that you are hearing and Stuart and Bruce described between homebuilding operations and mortgage company ready to sell takes a much better customer experience.
We track this and we see this in our surveys of our customers and I think it will result in better referral rates for us and achieving a higher level of capture of more markets as compared to our smaller competitors.
Okay.
Great that’s very helpful.
And then in terms of the labor or material side of things you noted it was up about 7% kind of in line with what you saw in the first quarter.
As we look at the back half of the year.
I know you’ve been doing [stunts] on some worth to try in.
Get some benefits coming through given the commodity (inaudible)? How should we think about that relative to some of the offset that you’ve been seeing? This is Jon.
There’s continued pressure we see it more on the labor side perhaps than the material side in today’s world especially as start between single family and Multifamily pickup.
And so some areas from framing and drywall masonry you see pressure there.
So I think we will continue as an industry to seek pressure on that.
So you will see some level price increase as we move forward and we do love to take advantage of every opportunity whether it’s in lumber we borrow different material to find moments and time to lock in some pricing to offset that.
So I think we’ll see that percentage increase sort of slowly moderate down but I think you should expect to see some continued pressure as we move forward.
Alright let’s call it there and look I hope that you are hearing our answers and our tone.
We are enthusiastic about our business.
Our core homebuilding business and Financial Services Group are well positioned to continue to post strong results as we go forward.
We are enthusiastic about positioning the maturity of our ancillary businesses and look forward to continuing to update you on future quarters as to our progress and to our strategy going forward.
Thank you for joining.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome to Lennar's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to David Collins for the reading of the forward-looking statements.
Thank you and good morning.
Today's conference call may include forward-looking statements including statements regarding Lennar's business financial condition results of operations cash flows strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar's estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could affect future results and may cause Lennar's actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described in this morning's press release and our SEC filings including those under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar's Annual Report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you David and thank you for joining us everyone.
This morning I'm joined by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; Dave Collins who you just heard from; and Diane Bessette our Vice President and Treasurer.
Rick Beckwitt and Jon Jaffe are here as well along with Jeff Krasnoff who's the CEO of Rialto and a few other management members as well.
Some will join for our Q&amp;A period.
This morning I'm going to be brief in my opening remarks as I feel that our views about our the market have been pretty consistently expressed on prior calls.
Bruce is going jump in and break down our financial detail and then as always we'll open up to Q&amp;A.
And we'd like to request that during Q&amp;A each person limit yourself to one question one follow-up so that we can get as many participants as possible.
So let me go ahead and begin.
And I'll begin by saying that we are very pleased to report our third quarter results as we continue to perform consistently across our platform.
Our performance really reflects our strong management team executing our strategically crafted operating plan in what continues to be a solid macro environment for large well-capitalized company.
Our homebuilding operations and associated financial services business continue to form the core of our operating platform.
Our results reflect the slow but steady growth in the overall homebuilding market.
This year summer season and the spring selling season before it confirm that the market is continuing to improve at a fairly consistent pace.
We continue to believe that the recovery in housing has been and will continue to be driven by strong and consistent demand.
Employment is up.
Labor is tight and wages are starting to rise.
Millennials who have been on the sidelines are now starting to form households and are looking at housing alternatives.
A growing number of individuals' balance sheets that were impaired by the economic downturn are starting to be repaired as the economy improves and as time passes and U.S.
population continues to grow.
Even as demand grows supply remains limited.
We have often discussed the production deficit of both rental and for-sale homes relative to the needs for housing in the United States over the years since the downturn.
This deficit has created a supply shortage as the growing pent-up demand comes to market.
Without a dramatic increase in the number of homes built in this country we will continue to be short dwelling unit for a growing population.
Even though supply is limited as demand is building we do not anticipate a surge in production.
Frankly I don't think that the current market conditions could support a strong increase in production.
A combination of land labor and mortgage availability are simply put limiting factors to a surge in production.
Limited capital for land and land development has left entitled lands in short supply while growing demands has driven up land prices.
In most major U.S.
market the ability to grow quickly is limited by the available land and the market's ability to bring new land to entitlement is limited by a constrained capital market for land developers.
Homebuilders with strong land and capital position are able to carefully and methodically add some land position while less well positioned participant has seen margin and bottom line erode.
Land continues to be the most challenging competitive environment in the homebuilders universe today.
Running a close second labor has also become a limiting factor.
The slow and steady recovery in housing did not signal to the labor market that it was time to come back to work in the sector and many found work elsewhere.
Today the entire labor market has tightened and rapid growth in housing production will be limited by available labor.
Larger builders with consistent production and payment plan are better able to maintain production but an overly rapid growth in production with significantly stressful labor force.
Finally the regulatory environment for mortgages remains challenging and limits the number of entrants for the for-sale market.
QM and QRM rules together with the ATR that is the ability to repay rules continue to restrict qualified purchasers from accessing the mortgage market.
Adding to the complex landscape [indiscernible] looms right around the corner as it complicates and slows the home closing process.
While these rules have been evolving and easing at the margin except for [indiscernible] of course which is just getting started they have exacerbated an already impaired consumer psychology to create a perception that homeownership just might not be accessible.
Even with that said the pent-up demand is finding its way back to the market out of necessity.
All of this portends an extended recovery and duration with a slow and steady slope and with continued upward pressure on pricing.
With demand growing steadily land limited labor tight and constrained mortgage availability we feel that we are in an excellent environment to run our business at a steady and consistent growth rate with strong bottom-line profitability and strong cash flow.
Our strategy at the bottom of the market was to purchase land aggressively.
As the recovery begins to take hold we began a soft pivot towards a lighter land strategy and moderated growth.
As the recovery has continued to mature we have continued to adjust our operating strategy for current market conditions.
We are using our strong land position to avoid chasing growth with low margin land deals.
We are fortifying our operations to focus to build products and environments that attract the best of the limited labor force.
And we are refining all areas of selling and marketing and overhead to drive consistent high net operating margins.
All of these strategic components can be seen in our results this morning.
Overall this is a very favorable environment for a well-capitalized national homebuilder.
We have believed and continue to believe that the down side in the housing market is very limited and the upside very significant.
And of course we believe that we are uniquely positioned within this market to continue to thrive.
Of course as we've continued to grow our core homebuilding business in the wake of the economic downturn we also continue to grow and mature our additional business segments that represent significant opportunity to enhance shareholder value.
Our multifamily program continues to complement our for-sale operation.
We've continued to expand our national footprint and grow from a merchant build program to a build-to-own program.
As first time purchasers have begun coming back to the housing market more slowly than expected and more slowly than they have historically we have addressed this market in a comprehensive way.
While approximately 30% of our homebuilding business continues to be geared to first time home purchasers and that's up by the way from 25% last year.
Our broader new household strategy has been aimed primarily at the rental market.
Our $6 billion plus apartment strategy is proving to be very well timed as rental rates are soaring and vacancies are at historical levels.
This is driven by a supply-demand imbalance.
First-time households have had the most difficulty accessing the mortgage market.
Credit limitations have been most constraining to the first-time buyers.
And although that is beginning to open up as it has been reported this segment is also the most susceptible to price and interest rate increases and many have been and will continue to be relegated to the rental market driving both rental rates and occupancies higher.
A new study by the Harvard Joint Center on Housing Studies and the enterprise community partners indicate that an increasing number of families are severely cost burdened by housing costs indicating supply constraint in the rental markets.
More rental product is needed and we are well positioned to continue to fill this need and grow our multifamily platform.
As I noted before our core financial services group has continued to expand alongside our primary housing business while we have also expanded our retail platform.
Additionally we've been able to capture an expanded share of the refi business as it exists.
Our Rialto Capital Asset Management platform enables us to invest across real estate and financial product types as an opportunistic play on the long duration recovery.
The dysfunction in the financial market and the new risk retention rules work to the benefit of Rialto's core competence in CMBS and financial products.
And finally our strategic investment in FivePoint and its management team positions us to continue to benefit from some of the best located land in California as that market continues to improve.
As noted during the quarter FivePoint has confidentially filed a registration statement for an initial public offering and we will keep you posted as further information becomes available.
In conclusion we are very pleased to present our third quarter results this morning and we're confident that we have the right people the right programs and the right timing to continue to perform this year and into the future.
Now let me turn over to Bruce.
Thank you Stuart and good morning.
Our net earnings for the third quarter were $223 million which is a 26% increase over the prior year.
Revenues from home sales increased 22% during the quarter driven by a 16% increase in wholly owned deliveries and a 5% year-over-year increase in average selling price to $350 000.
Our gross margin on home sales in Q3 was 24.1% and we are still on track with our goal of 24% gross margins for the full year.
The prior year's gross margin percentage for the third quarter was 25.2%.
Sales incentives during this quarter continue to decline and it was 5.6% versus 5.8% in the prior year's quarter.
Gross margin percentages were highest in the East Southeast Florida and West region this quarter.
The gross margin decline year-over-year was also a result of increased land costs.
Year-over-year direct construction costs are up approximately 5% to $52 per square foot.
Labor increased over 10% which drove almost all of the increase while material costs have remained relatively flat year-over-year.
We have a continued focus on reducing costs due to commodity declines primarily in lumber copper oil and steel.
The total direct cost increases have moderated as we have continued throughout 2015.
We remain on track with our previously stated guidance to achieve a 30-basis-point to 40-basis-point improvement in the combined selling general and administrative cost and corporate G&amp;A lines for the entire 2015.
In this quarter SG&amp;A improved 50 basis points over the prior year.
We continue to achieve improved SG&amp;A operating leverage by growing organically in our existing divisions.
And by the way this is the lowest SG&amp;A percentage of a Lennar third quarter going back to the late 1990s.
Equity and earnings from unconsolidated subs was $13.3 million during the quarter compared to a $2.1 million loss in the prior year.
This was primarily due to a gain on debt extinguishment and the sale of home sites to a third party in our El Toro joint venture.
And this was partially offset by some operating expenses and other JVs.
This quarter we opened 71 new communities to end the quarter with 673 net active communities.
New homeowners as you've seen in the release were up a solid 10% for the quarter year-over-year and new order dollar value increased 20% for the quarter.
Our sales pace declined to 3.2 sales per community per month in Q3 versus 3.3 in the prior year.
However after adjusting for some softness in the Houston market on the move upside our absorption would be flat with the prior year.
And the cancellation rate this quarter was consistent with the prior year at about 17%.
In the third quarter we purchased 4 900 home sites totaling $195 million versus spending $273 million in the prior year's quarter.
The lower land spend represents the result of our soft pivot strategy that Stuart laid out.
Our home sites owned and controlled now totaled 170 000 home sites of which 132 000 are owned and 38 000 are controlled.
Completed unsold inventory is in check with approximately 1 100 homes which is in our normal range of one to two per community.
Turning to Financial Services this business segment had strong results with operating earnings increasing to $39.4 million from $27.1 million in the prior year.
Mortgage pre-tax income increased to $31.4 million from $20.6 million in the prior year.
The increased mortgage earnings were due to higher volume as mortgage originations increased 43% to $2.4 billion from $1.7 billion in the prior year.
Purchase origination volume increased 40% as a result of increased Lennar home deliveries and our expanded retail presence.
The capture rate of Lennar homebuyers improved to 82% this quarter from 77% in the prior year.
Refinancings remained strong as refi origination volume increased by 74% versus the prior year.
Our title company's profit increased to $8.2 million in the quarter from $7.1 million in the prior year and this was primarily due to higher volume over the past year.
Turning to our Rialto segment.
Rialto produced operating earnings of $9 million even compared to $12.4 million in the prior year.
Both amounts are net of non-controlling interests.
The investment management business contributed $30.6 million of earnings which includes $7.6 million of equity and earnings from real estate funds and $23 million of management fees and others.
At quarter end the carried interest for Rialto Real Estate Fund I under a hypothetical liquidation has increased and now stands at $112 million.
Rialto Mortgage Finance operations contributed $519 million of commercial loans into three securitizations during the quarter resulting in earnings of $14.2 million for the quarter and that's the quarter G&amp;A expenses.
Our liquidating direct investments had a loss of $1.9 million for the quarter but we continue to monetize these investments and increase our cash flow.
Rialto's G&amp;A and other expenses were $26.9 million for the quarter and interest expense excluding warehouse lines was $7 million.
Rialto ended the quarter with a strong liquid position with $107 million of cash.
And as an update of fundraising we're now reaching the end of our investing cycle for Fund II and we are now in the process of working on our first closing of commitments for Rialto Real Estate Fund III.
This is expected to occur during the fourth quarter and it's targeted to be greater than the amount in Fund II.
We continue to grow our multifamily operation which has now grown to over 275 associates located in regional offices nationwide.
We ended the quarter with three completed and operating projects 28 projects under construction of which 5 are in lease up and over 7 700 apartments with a total development cost of approximately $1.9 billion.
Included in these communities we have a diversified development pipeline that exceeds $6 billion and over 20 000 apartments.
As expected we had an operating loss in Q3.
The $3 million operating loss related to G&amp;A expenses that were partially offset my management fees and the $5.7 million share of a gain from the sale of one of our operating properties.
Turning to our tax rate a decrease of 30% during the quarter.
This is a lower tax rate in the first two quarters of the year primarily due to a catch-up adjustment relating to validation of new home energy tax credits that were available to us.
Turning to the balance sheet our balance sheet liquidity remains strong as our home building cash balance ended the quarter at $596 million and there was $575 million borrowed under our $134 billion revolving credit facility at quarter end.
Our leverage improved by 100 basis points year-over-year as our net debt-to-total capital was reduced to 46.5%.
We grew stockholders' equity by 17% or $779 million over the prior year to $5.4 billion at quarter end.
And our book value per share has now increased to $25.51.
During the quarter we converted $169 million of our 2.75% convertible senior notes.
Of this amount $122 million was converted through privately negotiated transactions where we retired the par value of the notes in cash and issued 2.9 million shares when the average stock price was $47.34.
Turning to update goals for the rest of this year let me start with deliveries we are still on track with our delivery expectations for 2015 to between 24 000 and 24 500 homes.
As a result our backlog conversion ratio for Q4 should be between 90% and 95%.
Turning to gross margins we still expect our gross margins in 2015 to average approximately 24% for the full year.
Our fourth quarter gross margin percentage is expected to be just a touch above our third quarter actual 24.1%.
SG&amp;A and corporate G&amp;A were still on track with the expectation of 30 to 40 basis points improvement for all of 2015 with all of the leverage coming from the SG&amp;A line.
Financial Services we are increasing our Financial Services earnings goal again for 2015.
With the refi market driving higher volumes and stronger overall margins we now expect to earn $120 million to $125 million for the full year.
However we continue to expect some cooling in the strong refi market as we finish out the year.
Rialto is now expected to earn $25 million to $30 million for the full year.
The recent market volatility that has been experienced has reduced the margin on securitization in our fourth quarter to the lower end of our normal range of 200 to 400 basis points in that business and the fees on the Rialto Real Estate Fund III will not have a significant contribution until 2016.
Turning to Multifamily we expect to have one apartment community sale in the fourth quarter which will result in a profitable fourth quarter for our Multifamily segment.
There are no joint ventures or other transactions expected in the fourth quarter and therefore it should be close to a breakeven bottom line for the company's homebuilding joint ventures in the fourth quarter.
We're still on track with approximately $25 million of wholly-owned land sale profit for all of 2015.
However some of those transactions were successfully accelerated and shifted from the fourth quarter into our third quarter.
Our tax rate is expected to be about 34% for the fourth quarter.
Our community count is still on track to hit a goal of 675 net communities by the end of the year.
We remain well positioned to meet these goals as we finish our 2015.
And with that I'll turn it back to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Mr.
Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Sir your line is now open.
Hello.
Can you hear me? Yeah.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
I was wondering if you could give us the land spend numbers.
I believe you gave a figure that just included the purchases or acquisitions.
I was wondering if you could give us a figure that included development as well.
And then my second question relates to cash flow.
Can you give us a sense for how cash flow figures in your list of priorities for the company over the next year or two? Steve let me take the first one and then I'll turn it over to Stuart.
So the soft pivot strategy has also been noted in the land development line as well.
In the third quarter of last year we spent $307 million on land development and this year's quarter we've spent $286 million.
Okay.
And to the second question on cash flow Steve cash flow has been a central focus of our strategy since we started talking about our soft pivot.
We've highlighted to you into the Street that we came out of the downturn with a very very strong focus on land acquisition at the bottom of the market.
Rick and John crafted a strategy that really positioned the company very well.
We began off of that a soft pivot towards a shorter duration at the beginning and at the end shorter tails for the land.
And as the market has continued to mature and the competition for land assets has grown we are very actively determined that we will not chase growth by pursuing tertiary location and low-margin land acquisition.
And so we are focused on a combination of slower growth more orderly growth sustainable growth and a focus on bottom-line cash flow and profitability.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Next question.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from Michael Rehaut from J.P.
Morgan.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
First question maybe I just wanted to perhaps get a little bit of an expansion on your comments Stuart about not pursuing growth or stretching out beyond perhaps what was done in the last cycle.
When you think about the last cycle I mean we have growth numbers that range low-double digits to up to 30% or more depending or nearly 30% in 2001.
Do you have sort of I guess a minimum type of growth that you're thinking about? Of course this would be more of a mid-cyclish question not at the peak or repositioning where there might be the next downturn.
But as a low-double-digit type of a growth environment what you're thinking in the back of your head when you talk about more moderate growth rate or how should we think about just the core business over the next few years.
So one thing I don't want to do is start equating to the last cycle because this recovery is very very different in its composition.
We highlighted that there are some interesting and somewhat unique limiting factors.
I highlighted land.
I highlighted labor and I highlighted mortgage availability.
And while land had been constrained in prior cycles the labor constraint today is a limiting factor that is somewhat different than we've seen in the past and mortgage availability is clearly a very different overlay in this cycle.
So our view and our thinking has been to remain very focused on market conditions as they exist not try to drive our strategy with kind of a – just a reflection on past cycles but instead to adapt to the current market conditions.
And we've concluded at an operating level that we're going to pursue land acquisition and growth strategy at levels that the market enables.
And each of the professionals in our respective markets across the country are looking at land acquisition as opportunistic as a primary driver of future margins.
And we're just not going to be holding to this simple growth game of hitting a growth metric.
So the answer to your question is that we don't have a specific metric that we're solving to but we are working within the confines of the existing market condition to strike the balance between orderly consistent growth and strong gross margins and especially strong bottom line and cash flow.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And I guess the second question if I heard it right the sales pace in the prepared remarks were I believe roughly down 2% year-over-year if you count if you're comparing that against average community count.
And I believe I heard that ex-Houston sales pace would have been more flattish year-over-year.
I was hoping maybe to get a little more detail on what you're seeing in Houston market.
Obviously there's different commentary there's been different commentary around different price points different segments of the market.
As well as perhaps to highlight some of your markets where you are seeing sales pace improved on a year-over-year basis.
Well this is Rick I'll talk about Houston.
I would say that the Houston market is still overall a pretty decent market.
Clearly with the decline in oil the energy corridor there has been hit which is pretty much the far west side of the market.
Now if you look at that it hasn't been across all price points.
The lower price points let's say sub-$300 000 $350 000 are performing pretty well.
It's just when you get up in that $350 000-plus the price point sales has been impacted and have slowed.
Those would be the big master plan communities that are on the west side of town.
If you look in at Southwest Northwest Houston even at higher price points those have slowed but they're still performing well.
So it's price sensitive geographically focused but Houston is not one market it's multiple markets.
John why don't you talk about some of the other [indiscernible].
If you look at our different markets California has seen the most acceleration and our sales pace as well as growth in ASP.
So today [indiscernible] third quarter California is representing up to 22% of our total revenues it's up from 19% last year.
With an average sales price of $507 000.
Pacific Northwest is also seeing an acceleration in sales pace as have parts of Florida seeing an acceleration.
If you look at the rest of our markets they are pretty much right around flattish year-over-year.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
I had a question for Stuart.
Just your thoughts on the labor market.
We're still pretty far below what most people would consider a normalized pace of housing construction.
And whatever obviously unemployment has fallen but the construction trades would seem to match up well with where there might be some relatively higher unemployment.
So just looking for your thoughts on what do you think it's going to take for the labor market to ease poor construction.
And how do you see that playing out as we get back to normalized in housing production? Well embedded in your question I think is exactly part of the problem.
The slow and steady growth has not brought labor back to the housing market and I think overall labor is constrained.
So the ability of people to – we're not dealing with the same unemployment issue that we had at the beginning of the recovery so there's not a large labor force to draw from.
It's an increasingly complicated landscape in that we have a shortfall in production that is really revealing itself.
You see it most prominently in the rental market right now.
Occupancies are very tight rental rates are moving upward and we've already seen an acceleration in multifamily production.
So the fact is that we're still under-producing normal rates of home production and the labor market is already very very tight across the country in all industries but especially in the home market.
So getting to a normalized production rate is going to be difficult and it's why I say I think that we have a slow and steady recovery.
We're going to continue to attract labor back in.
We're going to continue to see unemployment go down I think and some pressure on wages which has a double-edged sword of bringing our costs up but bringing more people to the market to purchase.
And over time with limited supply and growing demand it seems that there's been a – during this steady increase in the recovery we're going to continue to see some pressure on pricing – on prices loan prices as well.
Great.
I appreciate the thoughts.
And the second question was on the multifamily side.
With the significant pipeline you've built up you previously talked about some profitability from the fourth quarter and Bruce you mentioned that again.
You've also talked about with the pipeline having been built up that the fourth quarter might mark the beginning of more consistent profitability in multifamily.
Is that still the expectation? Yeah.
This is Rick.
I think as we move into – in our fourth quarter and into 2016 we should be getting more predictable profitability from the group.
One of the things that – something that we can't control is since we've got these investments and partnerships a lot of times we can't control the sale decision.
It's got to be a joint decision and as a result of that it may move from one quarter to the other.
But as we look at it on an annual basis we should be profitable from here on out.
Okay.
Thanks for the thoughts.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from Mike Dahl from Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First question I think in the prepared remarks you mentioned that first-time buyer mix is up to 30% from 25% and I'm just curious if we could get a little more color particularly as you've articulated kind of the challenges from an affordability standpoint rising rents.
So are you seeing a change in the type of product or square footage that your first-time buyers are opting for as you see that mix rise? Let me let Rick and Jon kind of weigh in on this primarily but I'll just say that we are – you might have listened to the opening remarks and heard that it is a constrained environment for first time buyers to come in.
That remains the case and I meant to say it exactly that way.
With that said our first time buyer product offering and that across the homebuilding industry is increasing it's mostly out of necessity.
People are coming in and finding a way over time to access the mortgage market.
And it is altering the landscape somewhat as the first time market does start to come back in but there's a very very large pent-up demand both in rental and in for sale for buyers that need to come back in.
This is Jonathan.
In many of our markets we are addressing this by increased density in our product offering of simple product in some cases attached in some cases cluster or a higher density product that allows us to achieve a lower price point and make today's land environment work for us to address this first time buyer need.
Yeah.
It really goes back to 18 24 months ago when we first started getting questions about our product mix and how were we're going to attack the approach to first time buyer.
We strategically gone after a well located easy access communities where people can get to traffic [indiscernible] and we've designed product accordingly that's smaller footprint lower specification level a little bit more cookie cutter product that's easier build and more towards the product.
Got it.
Thank you.
And second question is going back to some of the market commentary and thank you for some of the color that you gave.
I wanted to dig in on a couple other markets that I think were kind of lumped into the flattish category like Phoenix Dallas and Austin.
So on Phoenix I think some others have been reporting a decent bit of strength in that market.
And then on the flipside I think Austin and Dallas had been quite strong and we maybe hearing of some pause in the market in those areas.
So just wondering if you could offer some colors specifically on those three markets.
This is Jon.
I'll talk to Phoenix and let Rick handle the Texas markets.
Phoenix is solidifying seeing more strength over the earlier parts of the year.
As you look at year-over-year it's up just a little bit because the third quarter last year was decent and really saw a slowdown in the fourth first quarters.
Second was a little bit better and third is noticeably better as well.
So I wouldn't say it's strong again but it feels like it's a solid market today on an improving trend.
Yeah.
I'm not sure we talked about the individual markets in Texas about them being softer or flat.
Quite contrary Dallas performed extremely well have seen sales price increases.
But more particularly in that market we're balancing pace and price because we secure some really trophy assets and want to make sure that we're maximizing the margins in these communities.
Austin for us is really just a transitional market from the standpoint of we're moving to recent communities and have a bunch of new communities that are about to open so you'll see a little bit better performance in Austin.
But outside of Easton Texas markets are performing well.
We're seeing big job growth good wage increases across the board and the state has really positioned itself well to attract employment.
This is Jon again.
I'll just add that you just have to be careful as you talk about any submarket because even within submarkets there are areas and product types that perform stronger than others and it's very much a community-by-community analysis.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from Jade Rahmani from KBW.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
This is actually Ryan Tomasello on for Jade.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I was wondering if you could provide your updated thoughts on consolidation in both the homebuilding market and in Rialto's various business lines including CMBS special servicing given that the role of the B-piece buyer in the CMBS market appears to be increasing in importance.
Hello? Seems that we got cut off but Rick why don't you take M&amp;A and homebuilding? Yeah.
On the acquisition side within the homebuilding space we continue to see some private companies some larger regional companies that are available for purchase.
We're being very careful because as Stuart said we're very focused on the underlying asset values and want to make sure that if we're going to purchase something if it's not taking us into a new geographic area that we're purchasing something that's going to produce decent margins.
We're fortunately very diversified as a company today so there's very few geographic areas that would be new markets for us.
So as a result of that given the fact that we've got very strong land acquisition folks spread out across the country the deal would have to pencil out for us to look at it.
On the Rialto side...
Yes.
Look on the Rialto side Jeff why don't you weigh in? Yeah.
I was going to say as it relates – it sounded like the question was headed in the direction of special services [indiscernible] and special services really are sort of the gatekeepers for those transactions both upfront in terms of the timing and the collateral that goes into the transactions and after the fact in terms of overseeing the loans to ensure that they get collected.
It's a relatively small group today.
There aren't that many.
I think if you look at the top four or five it's probably 80% of the marketplace but behind the time there are opportunities out there.
And when there are we will take a look and the comments are pretty much the same as what Rick said if the numbers make sense.
Yeah.
So adding to that is the question my opinion of what risk retention does to the landscape because special servicing combined with B-piece purchasing as a significant part of enabling a [ph] risk (44:16) retention environment.
The amount of capital required for that business is going to get bigger.
I don't know that M&amp;A is the direction or not the direction that we go but it opens up a band of opportunity.
And frankly it's the five that's going to have to be absorbed.
So there's tremendous amount of business in that arena that is – that's going to divide – that's going to define the next wave of activity.
We're very well positioned for it.
Great.
Thanks for taking that question.
And this is a follow up you previously noted that you have a single family rental community.
I was wondering if you can provide an update on whether or not you're seeing any indications if that makes you more positive or negative towards that sector.
We are decidedly more positive relative to that sector specifically the way that we are doing it which is a kind of unified community of single-family homes.
We think that single-family product is desirable We think that the leverage the management leverage associated with a community approach to single family is very attractive and provides management efficiencies.
The single family scattered approach I think still has some elements of shortcoming although the product is very desirable.
And we expect to expand on that platform as we go forward there are still some complications in terms of the financing of those kinds of communities.
And really defining what the rental rates are for those communities.
But our first experimentation is proving to be very successful.
I would add parenthetically that expanding that platform comes with all of the challenges of accessing the labor market and actually getting the homes built.
So we're still in the experimentation phase.
We think it's a really unique opportunity that rides right between our for-sale single-family operations and our multifamily rental operations.
And we're uniquely qualified to be moving in this direction.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you the next question is coming from Mr.
Ryan McKeveny from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Your line is now open.
Thank you and nice quarter.
Given the continued upside in terms of profitability in the financial services segment.
Can you just elaborate on your expansion of your retail presence? And you do see any low-hanging fruit to continue taking share in that retail purchase business to essentially drive profits even if we do see things slow on the refinance side? Yeah this is Bruce.
We continue to look for the right fit within our program.
So there are opportunities to look at some bolt-on acquisitions like we did last year with the Pinnacle deal.
That's worked out very well.
It's been integrated extremely well.
And if we could find other opportunities like that we'd be very interested.
One thing to highlight is that when the refinance market is hot the margins that we earn on both the purchase and the refi business is above normal type of margin.
So we do expect that as refis maybe taper down a little bit as we go through the latter part of this year there might be a little bit of margin compression as well.
But again our folks are looking at continuing to expand the retail presence.
We don't have a full national footprint yet but we're growing it.
But we're going to make sure we do it with the right types of programs and the right people.
Great.
Thank you.
And then also on the topic of mortgages just any update on where you think you as well as the industry stand in terms of TRID implementation and any anticipated delays on deliveries within that guidance that you gave for the fourth quarter? Thanks.
So October 3rd is the date that TRID is implemented for new applications and our team has been very focused with the software vendors and with training to make sure it goes as smooth as possible.
We think we're in good shape because we're fortunate to have our homebuilding team our mortgage associates and our title associates and our IT associates all working together.
We don't control what happens outside of our mortgage company which is about 20% of the business but we are as well positioned as we could be.
Keep in mind often when you have some deliveries you might pick up at the very end of the quarter or year that makes it tougher because of the three-day waiting period if any changes are made.
But we're as well-positioned as we could possibly be at this point.
Look TRID is a combination of waiting period and process.
And we've been training and operating under a TRID-like environment.
So we expect that our operations are going to be well-positioned to handle volume and to have a good smooth year-end closing.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from Stephen East from ISI Group.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Both in your prepared comments Stuart in the press release you talked about land and land inflation a few things around that.
Could you talk about how long do you think it would be for the industry before we get to the sufficient finished lot supply on the ground more broadly speaking.
I know every market varies but is this a one year two years three years type thing.
And then could you talk about on the land inflation side how much is it up year-over-year? You talked about labor being up 10%.
How much do you think land is and sort of rank order of the regions of the most inflation? So look I think that the land market is constrained in lot of levels not the least of which is the capital constraint.
The traditional lending avenues have remained close to the land asset as a basis for opening doors to lending.
And so as production is really being forced to expand to normalize land is behind the eight ball and the enabling factor – that is the access to capital – is continuing to constrain the ability to entitle new property.
So I think this is a long-term deficit that we're going to see limiting the ability to expand production and to – or to even normalize production and we think that keeps pressure on home prices to go up and land prices as well.
I think that what we've seen is probably a 14% kind of inflation factor for land on an annual basis right now.
I don't know looking ahead what the right number is in terms of land prices going up but we're uniquely positioned with a really strong land position to leverage off of.
We're able to be more deliberate careful in our approach to purchasing the next parcel.
And as long as we don't try to accelerate growth but instead remain steady I think that we're really advantaged in our ability to navigate this market.
But with that said in most land markets you're seeing land prices accelerate because of that scarcity and limited access to capital.
And maybe Rick and Jon would like to weigh in on specific region.
As you would expect Stephen is you'll see more acceleration.
For example in Coastal California some Coastal Florida you see less acceleration in the center part of the country.
Just as you would normally expect and you can follow sales price trends to sort of look forward to see what happened to land markets there.
Yeah.
The Texas market you're not going to see as much because land comes on faster and there are some larger developers there.
But all this context Steve I can go back to what Stuart said at the beginning is while pricing is going up across the board for most of the people out there.
We're not really facing as much of a headwind.
It gives us the opportunity to be more selective more opportunistic because we were very aggressive going back to 2009.
Okay.
And that is a great answer.
I appreciate all of that.
And then just sort of a little bit of a hodgepodge here.
Bruce you talked about refi on the financial services.
Could you give us an idea right now what percentage of volume and profits refi would be versus purchase? And then on the pricing your house price are about 5%.
How much of that is mixed versus true pricing power would you say? Let me take the question on the refi season.
So as you look at actual originations originations were only 11% of total originations this quarter even though it was up 74% over the last year.
But when we look at profitability we have a high refinance market who end up earning better margins than you would in a normalized market because the purchase business is fighting for more deals.
And everybody's busy and has enough activity you tend to end up with better margins.
So the true profitability from refi is a little bit hard to calculate because we're typically – we would typically make somewhere between $2 000 and $3 000 per lot loan.
This quarter we were over $3 300.
So we would expect to be back and maybe at $2 500 to $3 000 range as the refinance market cools off a bit.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then on house prices just to understand because you had mentioned that – we offset some of the land cost with pricing.
So I'm just trying to get a feel for how much is mix and how much is true pricing power? I would say that given the fact that our first time buyer profile is moving up that's more towards the lower end.
It makes us probably been more of a moderating factor.
And I think that would be a proxy for the housing market at large.
I think you probably – when you start to see – I think in today's existing home sales numbers we saw a reduction in the median home price.
But I think that what you're seeing is a little bit more mixed towards the lower end.
And I think that's reflective of the fact that at the higher end the more desirable areas there's just very limited supply.
And so you're not actually seeing a decrease in demand that the higher end it's just a decrease in the number of actual deliveries.
And this got a higher percentage of lower price and that's bringing the medium price down.
I think that's more of the case in our numbers as well.
Bruce would you agree with that? Yes.
No.
I think you're spot-on.
All right.
Thank you all.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from Mr.
Eric Bosshard from Cleveland Research Company.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
In terms of gross margin you did a good job walking through the moving pieces within that.
I'm curious as you think about the land relative to selling price and what you see going on with labor costs if you have any thoughts for us on how we should think about how this works moving forward just beyond the current year.
I'm not necessarily asking specifically for guidance of course but how you think about those moving pieces as we work through the cycle.
Given that the market continues the slow and steady recovery I think we see more of the same with generally the ability on like products be able to increase prices as there isn't enough supply to match demand and to offset those labor costs and land costs.
And as was stated as we – see our mix trend to more of our lower priced product that will have an overall effect of bringing down our ASP not necessarily our margin though.
Great.
And then secondly in the same construct as you think about the ability to lever SG&amp;A in the homebuilding operation is there anything that changes with your ability to improve efficiency as it influences how that performs going forward? I think we continue to find leverage particularly on the sales component of that as we focus on our online strategy and look to reduce costs there.
And then with our – as Rick said we're well positioned across the country in the markets that we're in.
So as we continue to add community count I think we'll continue to see some G&amp;A leverage there as well.
And I would just add to your first question there we did have a higher percentage of deliveries coming from California this quarter where you have an average sales price.
So our land costs also increased as well because in California the percentage of the home price relating to land is a little higher.
So that 14% is a little bit more weighted higher this quarter because of the product mix.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from Jay McCanless from Sterne Agee CRT.
Your line is now open.
Good morning everyone.
First question I had on the spec count you guys talked about 1 100 I believe this quarter.
What percentage of your deliveries came from spec and where do you – what do you anticipate that will go? And especially as you broaden out in the more entry level do you think you're going to be relying more heavily on spec product? Well on the spec for the entry level we're pretty much build to order and most of our first-time buyer markets we as in any community need some product there for immediate delivery homes.
But our spec strategy doesn't really vary by that price point.
This is Jon.
If you look at it we've consistently run at a spec level about one to two per community depending on the time of the year and we track pretty well with that.
So we don't see any increase or decrease in the way we're operating our day-to-day business.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thanks.
The second question I have on the apartment business could you remind us how many of – I think it's 28 total between construction and completed.
How many of those are wholly-owned by Lennar and how many of those are owned by JVs? All of these 28 are owned by JVs.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And this will be our last question.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from Buck Horne from Raymond James.
Your line is now open.
Hey.
Thanks very much.
Going back to labor real quickly I was wondering if you look at the – as you're thinking ahead of 2016 and the tightness of the labor markets.
I think consensus out there is expecting your total deliveries to be up around 10% year-over-year in 2016.
But is there any growing risk that the labor shortages that you're seeing or the tightness could create backlog cycle time issues and maybe push out some deliveries? Well as I noted in the remarks the larger builders have been singularly advantaged in the current environment.
It's a combination of – and especially in our Everything's included being able to simplify our product offering is a big advantage for us.
But additionally payment schedules subs are looking for consistent workload with dependable payment schedules and they have the ability to do a little bit of picking and choosing and they're definitely aligning with larger better capitalized builders.
As we've navigated the shortage of labor we have found that we're able to consistently run our operations and deliver without too much of a hiccup.
Can that change over time? It certainly can and there's no way to predict the future.
But we're not anticipating that at this point.
We feel very comfortable that we're able to leverage our position and keep production machines going at pace.
My last one is just more of a policy-type question because we are entering that season of the political cycle and immigration policy has been a significant hot-button issue already.
But do you have any concerns or industry view if we continue to see a tightening of immigration policy become an even bigger political movement? Is that something that could affect the homebuilding industry into 2016? I think about this a lot.
I think that you listen to some of the political rhetoric and you – sometimes you just want to go hide under your sheets and not come out but I think practically speaking the practical landscape is going to moderate.
If you listen to some of the discussion this weekend it sounds like we're gearing up to accept the whole new group of immigrants from the Middle East.
And so there are a lot of offsets and questions embedded in all of this.
I think labor shortage and the way that the country has been wired historically – common sense kind of tells me that this is going to even out and we're going to see kind of an orderly approach to immigration.
And it won't be a singular kind of negative impact.
But you go to extremes and you start to say we're going to support 11 million people then we have to start to think about that.
We'll have to see how it plays out but I think that common sense says it finds equilibrium and we're going to be okay.
Okay.
I appreciate your insights.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Very good.
And listen I want to thank everybody for joining us and look forward to reporting year-end at the end of our fourth quarter.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to Lennar's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to David Collins for the reading of the forward-looking statement.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Today's conference call may include forward-looking statements including statements regarding Lennar's business financial condition results of operations cash flows and strategies and prospects.
Forward-looking statements represent only Lennar's estimates on the date of this conference call and are not intended to give any assurance as to actual future results.
Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could affect future results and may cause Lennar's actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements.
These factors include those described in this morning's press release and our SEC filings including those under the caption Risk Factors contained in Lennar's Annual Report on Form 10-K most recently filed with the SEC.
Please note that Lennar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Great thanks David and good morning everybody.
Just let you know I'm joined by Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer; Dave Collins who you just heard from; Diane Bessette our Vice President and Treasurer; Rick Beckwitt our President; and Jeff Krasnoff CEO of Rialto are here with me with a few other members of our management team.
John Jaffe our Chief Operating Officer is joining by phone from California.
Some of them will join in the conversation for Q&amp;A.
Eric Feder is here as well.
He might jump.
I'm going to give some brief remarks about the business in general and then Bruce is going to jump in and break down our financial details as he has in the past.
And then of course we'll open up to Q&amp;A as we always do and request that during Q&amp;A each person limit yourself to one question and one follow-up so that we can get as many participants in as possible.
So let me start by saying that our fourth quarter and full year 2015 results just marked another year of outstanding operating results for our company.
Every part of the company has performed as expected and positioned itself for continued performance in 2016 and beyond.
Management teams across our platform have risen beyond the challenges of sometimes complicated market conditions and have adjusted strategies to meet those challenges.
We remain very well positioned to execute our strategically crafted operating plan in what continues to be a very solid macro-environment which is particularly well suited for large well capitalized companies like Lennar.
In light of the FED's move in interest rates this week let me speak briefly about our outlook for the housing market in general.
Many have been concerned about the relationship between housing and interest rates.
We're quite certain though that modest moves in interest rates in the context of a positive economic environment will be a net positive for housing in general.
This has been the case in approximately half of all prior positive interest rate environments.
As we've noted before the overall housing market has been generally defined by a rather large production deficit over the past years and this has resulted in a growing pent up demand.
Stronger general economic conditions including lower unemployment sustained wage growth and growing consumer confidence will drive consumers to form new household and to rent and purchase dwelling.
We expect that demand will continue to build and to come to the market over the next years as the deficit in housing stock needs to be replenished.
While land and labor shortages will somewhat restrict the ability to quickly respond to growing demand this environment will result in a very steady positive homebuilding market and enable us to grow and expand our platform.
Against this backdrop let me briefly describe and discuss each of our operating segments.
Our four sale homebuilding operations have performed extremely well in 2015.
Our results reflect the slow but steady growth in the overall home building market.
While labor shortages and cost increases have tested our ability to max sales and delivery pace our management team has kept careful control of pace while managing sales prices and margins and reducing SG&amp;A to offset and maintain strong net operating margins.
The continuation of the difficult mortgage approval landscape and the introduction of the new TRID rule also provided some obstacles that our management team navigated seamlessly.
We’ve also noted before that given the now mature and restrictive land environment we’ve been managing and continue to carefully manage our growth in order to maximize our bottom line and to drive strong cash flow.
This has been and will continue to be the strategy driving our home building platform as we manage land acquisitions to purchase only the best deals and we continue to maximize pricing power and continue to deploy innovative strategies to drive our SG&amp;A down.
With demand growing steadily land limited labor tight and constrained mortgage availability we feel that we’re in an excellent environment to run our business at a steady and consistent growth rate with strong bottom line profitability and strong cash flow.
Our financial services group has had an outstanding 2015 as well.
Of course as we’ve continued to grow our core home building business we also continue to grow and mature our financial services group.
While the financial services operations have grown alongside our core home building business we’ve also benefited from a strong refi market and from an expansion of retail opportunities in both our mortgage entitled platform.
These sidecar opportunities will continue to expand into 2016 as the refi business dissipates in its ordinary course.
Our strategy for the future of Lennar Financial Services is to construct and maintain a fully self sufficient financial services platform that benefits from Lennar’s home building business but also drives profitability from retail operations as well.
Bruce Gross our Chief Financial Officer overseas this operation and will discuss it further in his comments.
2015 has been an outstanding year for Lennar multifamily communities as well.
LMC as we call it complements our core home building operations and allows us to provide a much needed housing alternative for an urban focused millennial population and a credit challenged first time home buyer in a tight mortgage finance underwriting environment.
Driven by a multiyear shortfall of multifamily development the fundamentals of the rental market are extremely compelling with historically low vacancy rates and low turnover in rising rent.
Under the leadership of Todd Farrell and Eddy Easley we became the nation’s fifth largest developer of Class A apartments and have built a nationwide development construction and management platform that will produce both significant short term profits for the Company and long term value for our shareholders.
We have discussed on prior calls we started -- as we’ve discussed on prior calls we started this business in 2011 as a merchant builder where we planned to sell our partner communities when we were leased and stabilized.
In 2015 we augmented this strategy with the first close of Lennar Multifamily Venture a build to core equity fund designed to allow us to hold our Class A income producing assets for continued cash flow and recurring earnings.
Today including both on our merchant built and built to core equity fund we have a pipeline of over 21 000 apartments with the total development cost exceeding $6 billion.
In 2015 our Rialto segment had an outstanding year as well under the leadership of Jeff Krasnoff and Jay Mantz and continues to grow as a best in class asset manager.
Our stated results were driven by increased management fees and returns from our asset management business and securitization gains in Rialto mortgage finance.
These results do not include the substantial increase in undistributed hypothetical carried interest from our funds.
Rialto has transitioned from being an asset heavy balance sheet investors to a capital light high return on investment vehicle.
Our investment management and servicing platforms have been growing assets under management in a little over six years we’ve raised almost $6 billion in equity and have invested close to $5.5 billion.
We’re continuing to build upon this base from our first two real estate funds which have both been top quartile performers.
Fund 1 has had spectacular performance.
We have already distributed approximately 130% of invested capital with a long way to go.
Fund 2 is also on its way.
The final capital call occurred just this fourth quarter as we’ve invested over $1.6 billion of equity.
We have already returned $300 million or about 23% of the original commitment and we’ve had our first closing of almost $510 million for Rialto real estate funds number 3.
And to complement our real estate funds we also have almost $700 million of investor equity dedicated to mezzanine lending which will also be looking to grow as we move into 2016.
Complementing our asset management business Rialto mortgage finance run by Brett Ersoff our high return on equity lending platform is focused on originating and securitizing long-term fixed-rate loan on stabilized cash flowing commercial real estate property.
RMF is now the second largest non-bank CMBS originator by dollars volume and the largest by loan count.
During the quarter we completed our 24th securitization transaction selling over $854 million of RMF originated loan maintaining our strong margins and bringing our total to over $4.6 billion a securitizing loans since RMF inception.
Rialto simply couldn't be better position for 2016 as the dysfunction in the financial markets and the new risk retention rules work to the benefit of Rialto's core competence in both CMBS and broader financial products.
Finally our strategic investment in FivePoint property and its management team positions us to continue to benefit from some the best located land in California as the market continues to improve.
As noted in our last conference call FivePoint has filed a confidential registration statement for an initial public offering.
We can't speak too much about FivePoint and will keep you posted as further information becomes available.
In conclusion we are very pleased to present our fourth quarter and full-year 2015 results this morning.
As we look ahead to 2016 we couldn't be more enthusiastic about the prospects for Lennar as all segments of our company are extremely well-positioned.
As we said many times in the past we are uniquely positioned as we have the right people the right programs and the right timing to continue to perform as we have this year well into the future.
And with that let me turnover to Bruce.
Thank you Stuart and good morning.
Our net earnings for the fourth quarter were 282 million which is a 15% increase over the prior year.
Revenues from home sales increased 16% in the quarter driven by a 9% increase in wholly owned deliveries and a 6% year-over-year increase in average selling price to 347 000.
Our gross margin on home sales in Q4 was 24.6% which achieved our goal of 24% gross margin for the full year.
The prior year's gross margin percentage was 25.6%.
The gross margin declined year-over-year was due primarily to increased land cost as well as Chinese Drywall settlement benefiting the prior year's quarter by 30 basis points.
Sales incentives continue to decline this quarter at 5.9% versus 6.6% in the prior year.
Gross margin percentages were once again highest in the East Southeast Florida and West regions.
Direct construction cost increases have moderated as we continue through the year.
These costs were up 5% year-over-year to approximately $52 per square foot and that was driven almost entirely by changes in labor.
We have a continued focus on reducing material cost due to commodity declines primarily in lumber copper oil and steel.
We were successful in improving SG&amp;A operating leverage by growing volume organically in our existing home building divisions.
Additionally we continue to see the benefits of our focus on digital marketing.
This is the lowest quarterly SG&amp;A percentage in 15 years.
Equity in earnings from unconsolidated subs was 14.7 million in the fourth quarter compared to a loss of 3.7 million in the prior year.
This quarter's profit was primarily due to our share of the gain on sale home sites by our El Toro joint venture.
This quarter we opened 61 new communities to end the quarter with 665 net active communities.
New home orders were up 10% year-over-year and new order dollar value increased by 20% excluding the Houston market these numbers were up 14% and 23% respectively.
Our sales pace remained flat with prior year at 3 sales per community per month and the calculation rate decreased to 17% in the fourth quarter from 20% in the prior year.
In the fourth quarter we repurchased 3 900 home sites totaling 250 million versus 254 million in the prior year's quarter.
The lower land spend represents the result of our soft pivot strategy.
Additionally we were successful in bringing 240 million of previously mothballed assets into active production in 2015 so we can monetize those assets.
Our home sites account owned and controlled is now at 166 000 home sites of which 126 000 are owned and 40 000 are controlled.
Our completed unsold inventory ended the quarter with approximately 1 100 homes which is in our normal range of one to two per community.
Our financial services business segment had stronger results as Stuart mentioned with operating earnings increasing to 33.8 million from 30.2 million in the prior year.
Mortgage pre-tax income increased to 25.9 million from 23.8 million in the prior year.
The increased mortgage earnings were due to higher volume as mortgage originations increased 23% during the quarter to 2.4 billion from 2 billion in the prior year.
Purchase origination volume increased 24% as a result of increased Lennar home deliveries and our expanded retail presence.
The capture rate of Lennar homebuyers improved to 83% this quarter from 80% in the prior year.
During the quarter the new TRID regulations became effective and our mortgage title and homebuilding associates working hand-in-hand were successful in closing over a 1 000 transactions in our fourth quarter that fall into these new regulations.
Our title company's profit increased to 8 million in the quarter from 6.9 million in the prior year and that was primarily due to higher volume over the past year.
Our Rialto segment produced operating earnings of 7.6 million compared to 38.2 million in the prior year both are net of non-controlling interests.
Prior year's operating earnings included 34.7 million related to carried interest.
The investment management business contributed 26.6 million of earnings which includes 4.7 million of equity and earnings from real estate funds and 21.9 million of management fees and other.
At quarter end the undistributed hypothetical carried interest for Rialto Real Estate Funds I and II now total 146 million combined.
We don't recognize those profits until we receive the cash.
Rialto Mortgage Finance operations contributed 854 million of commercial loans into four securitizations resulted in earnings of 16.8 million for the quarter.
Our liquidating direct investments had earnings of 3.2 million and Rialto's G&amp;A and other expenses were 31.9 million for the quarter and interest expense excluding warehouse lines was 7 million of interest expense.
Rialto ended the quarter with a strong liquidity position with 150 million of cash.
Turning to Multifamily we highlighted this year that our fourth quarter should be the start of regular profitability being generated from this segment.
We did in fact deliver a $10.2 million operating profit in the quarter and that was primarily driven by the segment’s 16.6 million share of a gain from the sale of an operating property as well as management fee income which is partially offset by their G&amp;A expenses.
We ended the quarter with five completed and operating properties 27 under construction more of which are in lease up totaling over 7 800 apartments with a total development cost of approximately 1.9 billion.
Our tax rate for the quarter was lower it came down to 33.2% versus 32.7 for the year.
Our tax rate reflects our focus on building energy efficient homes as well as homes with solar systems which provide valuable tax credits.
Turning to the balance sheet we have a high quality balance sheet that has been further strengthened this year with improved liquidity reduced leverage and bolstered equity.
Liquidity improved as we ended the year with approximately 900 million of homebuilding cash and no borrowings under our $1.6 billion revolving credit facility.
Our leverage improved by 170 basis points year-over-year as our net debt to total capital was reduced to 42.2%.
We grew stockholders equity by 17% or 822 million year-over-year to 5.6 billion and our book value per share increased to $26.75.
Our debt maturity ladder was enhanced as we opportunistically accessed the debt market in October assuming 400 million of eight year senior notes at 4.875% Now I'd like to provide some goals for 2016.
First deliveries we're currently geared up to deliver between 26 500 and 27 000 homes for 2016.
We expect the backlog conversion ratio of approximately 70% for the first quarter 85% for the second quarter 75% to 80% for the third quarter and over 90% for the fourth quarter.
We expect operating margins to be flat to down 50 basis points in 2016 and that compares to the actual in 2015 of 14.1%.
The full year gross margin is expected to be in a range of 23% to 24% and the reduction in gross margin percentage should be mostly offset with operating leverage on the SG&amp;A line.
There will be seasonality between the quarters with first quarter being the lowest operating margins and then improvements as volumes increase during the year.
Financial services are expected to be in the range of $115 million to $120 million for the year.
The quarterly amounts are expected to be spread similar to 2015 with the first quarter anticipated to be the lowest quarter of profitability.
With rising interest rates we expect 2015 strong refinance market to slowdown in 2016.
Turning to Rialto we expect to range a profit between $35 million and $40 million for the year.
The second half of the year is expected to have higher profitability than the first half.
Multifamily expects to sell 8 to 10 multifamily communities in 2016 with the range of profits in total between $50 million to $55 million for the full year.
The first and fourth quarters are likely to be the largest quarters and the second and third quarters the lightest.
However we should be profitable every quarter in this segment going forward.
Looking at the combined category of joint venture profit land sales and other income we expect to range $55 million to $60 million of profit primarily coming from the JV profit and land sales with just over half of this estimate currently expected in our third quarter.
Corporate G&amp;A is expected to be a flat percentage of total Company revenues year-over-year as we continue to focus on technology initiatives.
Our tax rate in 2016 should be approximately 34%.
Our net community count is expected to decrease approximately 8% to 10% from our ending count of 665 with the increased spread throughout the year.
Our balance sheet in 2016 with our soft pivot strategy our strong earnings contribution and $400 million deepen the money convert callable late in 2016 our leverage will be trending down year-over-year further strengthening our balance sheet.
With these goals in mind we are well positioned to deliver another strong profitable year in 2016.
And with that I’d like to turn it to the operator for questions.
We’re ready to begin Q&amp;A.
Thank you Sir.
Our first question comes from Robert Wetenhall of RBC Capital Markets.
Sir your line is open.
I just wanted to ask Bruce mentioned the soft pivot strategy.
And I was hoping maybe Stuart or Rick or John if you had any view on where are we in the recovery is this like the fourth or fifth inning? And how should we think about land spend and investment going forward? I think the way that we’re thinking about it is this Bob this has been a very shallow very slow and steady recovery unlike the kind that you would have expected in the context of such a deep and steep decline.
It has been framed by mortgage availability and a variety of economic factors but because it has been slow and steady we think that we’re probably earlier in the recovery cycle than one would expect for the duration that we’ve been at it.
Now what that means is that from the standpoint of land land has accelerated in pricing maybe even ahead of itself.
So in terms of the maturity of land pricing we’re seeing that land pricing has recovered at a faster pace than the overall market.
Land is still in short supply so it is difficult to come by a location best located properties and the pricing is more of a retail nature than a deeply discounted nature.
So the way we’re thinking about it is we have a lot of runway ahead of us in terms of further recovery for the market as I’ve noted defined by the production deficit but at the same time with lands being a lot more pricy than it has been in the past.
We’re really carefully managing our land acquisition and we’re also constraining growth.
We could step on the accelerator and grow volume at an accelerated pace but that would mean reaching out for broader land deals bigger land deals we’ve noted in the past that we’ve been managing both the front end and the tail of our land acquisitions in order to carefully balance maximizing pricing power maximizing margins and generating free cash flow at the same time.
With taking from your land inflation comments it’s been a really strong year for average selling prices you guys are up 8% in the fourth quarter.
Just trying to think against the 10% comp in 2015 what kind of expectations do you have for ASP performance in 2016 and just as kind of a housekeeping question any color on your comments about the Houston market and the Miami markets from the press release that you've appreciated.
Thanks and good luck.
Sure thank you and I'll let Rick and John weigh in on that.
Yes I would tell on an overall pricing standpoint we're probably anticipating somewhere in the mid-single digits range about 4% 5% 6% and that we’ll definitely moved by market.
Certainly we haven't underwritten any deals with any inflation to the extent that we get some upwardly moving price we’ll benefit from that on a performance standpoint.
And with regard to Houston I'll start off by saying that it's a largest market in the country delivering about 28 000 homes and that in spite of the oil pressures there it's still a pretty solid market.
It's got fundamentals on the new home site there is about two months' supply of home which is good compared to the rest of the country.
On resale side it's about the same amount of supply about two months homes are staying on the market and compared to what Houston has been historically and the rest of the nation its strong market.
And while job growth has accelerated primarily in the energy related sector it's still net positive for the year with technology hiring with the shipping sector being strong and with medical sectors bringing in employments.
New home sales were definitely down year-to-date for us and the rest of the market.
The market is being more sluggish on the higher price point but anything below 300 000 to 250 000 it's an extremely strong market.
We are positioned in the market below the 310 price point and better located communities in the higher price point.
If you look at our performance in the market it's sort of interesting.
Sales were down because as Stuart said we regulated price pace but our sales price for the quarter was up because we focused on margins and the price point below -- above 350 that 249 quarter and the 290 quarters are strong Sugar Land is strong Clear Lake is strong.
And as I said below 300 it’s strong throughout the market.
But we feel good about the position we have in the market we are very focused on the land market there and I think we feel good but it's a softer market there's no question there is headline noise risk and that's impacted the market.
With regard to Southeast Florida we are very pleased with our performance there.
Sales were up about 19% in Q4 closings were down and about 3% but ASP was descent and our margins are strong.
We're well-positioned for 2016 with great new communities coming onboard and we feel very positive about that core market.
Jon? Hi Bob it's Jon.
I would just add that as you look at the markets across the country that inventory story is a very healthy one.
We don’t' see a buildup of speculate inventory in any of our markets and see a very healthy balance of supply and demand despite sort of demand headwinds as Stuart described there is still strong enough demand that is keeping inventory levels very tight which should lead to continued pricing power although moderated by the overall environment.
Next question comes from Ryan Gilbert of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
In the West it looks like orders have slowed down a little bit sequentially.
I am just wondering if that’s off of a tough comp or you've seen some demand slowdown there.
Jon? In the West the markets that remain very healthy as you look at California's overall market our sales pace was flat up just a little bit compared to last year for the fourth quarter.
And the Pacific Northwest our sales paces up year-over-year.
Phoenix is flat to up a little bit and same with Nevada.
So as you look at sales pace year-over-year very consistent really don't see any slowdowns in any of our markets out here.
Great and then in Rialto do you have a sort of target SG&amp;A level that you guys are looking at or where do you think SG&amp;A can go in terms of others or a percentage of revenue or assets under management? This is Jeff.
In terms of overhead for Rialto I think we're kind of getting to the point where we will got some very good operating leverage just year-over-year personnel costs remained relatively flat but the number of assets under management are going up.
So we don't have any specific guidance on that in terms of numbers and in terms of percentages because it's really more geared towards by products where we're actually working at the moment but we do see that we are well positioned from an operating leverage perspective.
I think Rialto is growing its bottom line maintaining its overhead level.
Operating leverage is going to derive from growing assets under management RMF continuing to perform at a very strong level and the continued depletion of some of our legacy assets which do take some additional management time and stress.
So you're going to see Rialto continue to improve its bottom line.
Our next question comes from Mike Dahl of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Just wanted to go back to the margin guidance on gross margins specifically and I'm wondering if you can give us a sense of -- you've got a range of basically flat to down a 100 basis points and how should we think about what some of the puts and takes are? Is it as pricing stands now you'd hit midpoint if you're able to push prices more aggressively to the high end if labor cost accelerates to low end and this is -- is there anything you can give or -- like the some of the big buckets and what your expectations are within that guide? Yes well look we've highlighted that you've got land costs that have been going up you've got labor costs that have been going up you've got pricing that is fitting in some market conditions and we'll see how that evolves we're expecting kind of a mid-single digit increase in terms of ASP over the next year as Rick properly point out.
And offsetting some of that are some of the overhead considerations some of the SG&amp;A we have some very strong some very innovative program to drive SG&amp;A down even while normal -- normalized leveraging of SG&amp;A will help margin overtime.
We think that as we go through the year we're going to see some of the programs that we've put in place really balance out some of the headwinds that we see in the marketplace and enable us to drive a really strong bottom line.
The only thing I'd add to that is the other bucket of activity that will temper some of the margin that we've had in the past is we're bringing out some of our mothballed community in order to generate some cash at our inventory and those have margins that are lower than the company average.
And I guess just a follow-up on region-specific tying in Houston so I guess it's been a market where the margins have been quite high relative to what builders would typically see in this market overtime and you made the comment around regulating pace and pushing price and some others have noted -- started to talk about maybe some slippage on price.
So just wanted to get your sense of market dynamics around price there how should we think about margins -- even if margins are holding up you're kind of mixing away from Houston and so from a mix perspective seems like that might be a headwind to overall margins any color there? Margins at Houston are going -- are down year-over-year given the decline in the market there's still good margin for us as a company.
But they're not as strong as they were a year ago.
This is John I'll add our healthiest margins are on the coast in Florida in California and those markets remain very healthy for us.
So you have that balance between on in Houston and then our strong coastal markets.
Our next question comes from Dennis McGill of Zelman &amp; Associates.
Just to close a loop on that last question there Bruce is it fair to say if you back out Houston just given its size that the gross margin would actually be up across the company next year at this point? Is it I'm not sure that I would go there I'm not sure how much the margins in Houston are actually going to come down but it's likely that they’ll be more at least more flattish I would say.
Yes I think look I think when you get down to it that's a mass question and we'd have to go back and run some numbers to give real answers to that.
But look I think there's a lot of averaging in looking at our margins there're lot of moving pieces Rick highlights bringing in some of our mothballed assets Houston is part of the factor.
Some of the markets are very strong some of them are a little bit a little bit more questionable like Houston.
So there is some averaging in all of that and we're trying to give guidance for a full year when in fact looking out over here a lot of things are likely to change.
Not the least of which is the land landscape coupled with the labor constraints that are out there.
Costs are clearly pressured to some extent.
And then there's the opportunity to leverage SG&amp;A and again I can't highlight enough we think we have some really innovative components of our company that are focusing attention on leveraging SG&amp;A even more than just normal averages.
Okay that’s fair and then Stuart you mentioned it a couple of times just now on the labor issue just curious for your opinion on how you would think about the almost on a go forward basis as well as it’s being talked about in a lot of different ways and I think everyone agrees it’s a challenge for the industry but I think there is varying degrees of what builders are experiencing varying degrees across markets.
And also from a relatively standpoint it’s not clear I think based on how some of the companies have talked about it whether this is a problem that’s getting worse it’s been a problem for a while or whether you are seeing any type of shift in the rate of labor inflation if you will.
So I guess a lot in there but just curious on your thoughts how you guys are thinking about internally as you look forward? Labor is a complicated factor.
One of the big questions that people ask is where is all the labor gone and why isn’t it showing backup and how does it match with unemployment and wage gains everything.
To me it’s kind of a double edged sword on the one hand labor costs are going up on the other hand wages are going up and that means more people are going to be able to afford homes.
And I think it’s generally a net positive for the industry.
I know that there have been different accounts of the labor conditions I think labor conditions are different in different markets.
So different builders mix will play into that.
Is it getting better or is it getting worse? I think it’s hanging around the same if we had a big spike up in volume for the industry I think it would be very hard for the labor market to respond it would be more constrained.
But all of this speaks to the benefit of the largest best positioned best managed companies and I would have to put out in a top tier in that regard.
We have an excellent management team we’re very focused on having labor in place that we’ve worked with for many years.
People that are used to being paid on time used to being treated properly we think our Everything’s Included program works to our benefit.
It is a simplified production program so it has enabled us to navigate these waters a little bit more confidently and consistently than perhaps some of the others.
So given the simple platform given our size and scope given our management team I think we are -- we feel that we’ll best in class in terms of being able to manage a tight labor market that we think is going to persist.
Labor is not coming back to this industry in the quantity that we need to sustain growth going forward.
So being well positioned in that regard is a net positive for the Company.
And then just one last number Bruce sorry if I missed this.
But have you detailed how much labor on average have you funded across the country is up year-over-year the labor cost? We said that it’s approximately 5%.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Your line is open.
Couple of questions I guess my first question relates to land and I would say first off if you could help us put the rate at which you’re taking down your mothballed lot supply.
I am wondering at the rate you envisioned taking that down into fiscal ’16.
Like how many years on average do you think or how many years generally do you expect at that pace it would take you to work through your supply of mothballed lot? And then a second part of the land question is can you refresh us exactly how much you spent on land and land developments this year and what your plans are for next year? So on the mothballed communities I’d say it’s probably about a four year trajectory Steve some markets will be faster and we brought a fair number of these communities in already.
And there is some of these assets that require some land development so that we brought into production but we may not get all the deliveries on them until the later years.
But these are well positioned assets that we made a strategic decision during the downturn to not sell these communities and quite frankly that was -- looking back it was the right decision.
With regards to land acquisition I’ll give that to Bruce with regards to what we’ve spent.
So for the year Steve we spent less on land acquisitions.
Last year was a $1.410 billion this is $1.384 land development costs are slightly up last year it was just under $1.1 billion this year it’s $1.150.
And I guess the last thing I’d say on land acc is I think people need to be very focused on the difference between the purchase the actual closing of the land deal and when the land was put under contract.
And as we said several quarters back going back into 2010 we had put under contract several assets that we’re still closing on today.
And I think you’ll see that as we move into 2016 that several of these deals -- a lot of these -- most of these deals were pre 2016-2015 vintage.
Okay that's an important distinction I appreciate that.
Another somewhat related question to land is the potential role of M&amp;A.
So I know as you guys look to deploy the assets often as you look at the entering a market or expanding your presence in the market through acquisitions somewhat similarly to buying dirt [ph] I was wondering if you could comment little bit on what you see out there in terms of the M&amp;A pipeline or sort of the deal flow [technical difficulty] in the context of your land commentary earlier? Thanks.
Okay Steve some of your questions didn't come through so if I missed something you let me know but we've always looked at M&amp;A as an opportunity but it's an opportunity that competes with what we think is an extraordinary and dynamic organic growth program.
We simply have an excellent group that is focused on land acquisition growth organically and I think that we've been able to excel at that.
So every acquisition candidate competes with that organic growth opportunity so it's going to have to be something that really works quite well for the Company.
With that said in an environment where labor is in short supply land is ever more complicated and we have what we think are fairly unique strategies there might be can be will be unique opportunities for groups that can benefit from some of our positioning to find our home here with us.
And we think that that attraction will ultimately find its way into M&amp;A for the Company.
Now if you look at the things that we've looked at we've looked at just about everything in the marketplace if you look at some of the things we've done we recently close on some assets that could be considered in part M&amp;A we've got our cork in the water we're looking very carefully but our standards are very-very high and we think ultimately the market will create attractions that bring M&amp;A our way.
Rick would you add to that? Yes I think that Stuart is spot on we look at the acquisitions from a margin standpoint operating leverage standpoint and given the platform that we've got it's a pretty high bar.
This last quarter we closed on -- we acquired some communities from another builder it's about 8 or 9 communities smaller deal but these were ones that we could bring into production relatively quickly that’s cash-on-cash and pretty much during the same year within 16 to 19 months.
So we look at everything.
We got a high bar but I wouldn't be surprised if you see us do some more of that as we move forward in next year or so.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Rehaut of J.P.
Morgan.
Your line is open.
First question I had was just going back to the gross margin and operating margin guidance and you know congrats on executing this past year along your guiding really strong performance there.
Looking at your outlook for ’16 it occurred to me that if you kind of -- you give a descent range on gross margin.
Obviously there is some variability that can occur throughout the year either with rates or labor or whatnot that could impact closing let's and perhaps that’s part of it but to the extent that you are able to hit the higher end of that gross margin guidance range and at the same time I would expect you guys to be able to extract some amount of additional SG&amp;A leverage is there the potential for operate -- little bit of further operating margin expansion in ’16 or is that pushing the envelope a little bit but it's seemed to be that perhaps there could be a little bit of a touch of conservatism here just want to know your thoughts around that or are there certain factors that you're a little bit more cautious around? No listen Mike I think that if you look at the market in general the market has many elements that are moving around.
We're not injecting conservatism.
I think that the market has headwinds that are very real and that have to be navigated.
You're hearing it from all of the homebuilders.
I think that -- I think you're going to get excellent performance out of our company but we're still going to be performing within the limitations of the marketplace in general.
You hear about land constraint the difficulties that you see across the board companies acquiring land it's difficult out there that’s a headwind.
Labor is a headwind that -- even though we feel that we're advantaged in some of those ways it's a limitation.
So I wouldn't be thinking in terms of us conservitizing our numbers I think we're trying to give you a real picture of where we think things are.
We've given us we've given ourselves a fairly sizeable margin in terms of our guidance because we think that the market is volatile and difficult enough where it's uncertain as to where we're actually going to land but I wouldn't think of it in terms of conservitizing our numbers or our performance.
I guess I guess I was just talking about if you were able to hit the higher end of the gross margin range that you would get a little SG&amp;A leverage that at minimum you could hit on the flat operating margin if not perhaps slightly better but obviously a long way to go to get there throughout the year.
Lot of work ahead of us so we're going to have our head down and be focused on this but I think that we're trying to give as good a guidance as we can we don't have a crystal ball and we'll have to see how the year resolves itself.
Second question just following up on the M&amp;A question and certainly you guys over the last 10 15 years 20 years have been opportunistic in a lot of different ways.
Stuart I was just kind of interested in your broader thoughts on the market where we are right now I mean there is quite a bifurcation of evaluation across the publicly traded builder universe where you have many builders at or below book value and I know that book value is -- can often -- it only gets you so far in terms of the valuation metrics in terms of the underlying assets real value.
But as you look at across the publicly traded universe what would be your expectations that let's say over the next two or three years for there to be some additional public-to-public M&amp;A like we've seen that points in the past? Well look Mike I'm sure that you've already crafted in your mind that here at Lennar we know the metrics associated with each and every one of the other -- or the potential M&amp;A candidates.
We think about we look at we dissect the opportunities that could and might be out there.
We don't talk much about M&amp;A but let me broaden the discussion and say that we've developed a highly diversified platform.
Let's not forget Rialto let's not forget our multifamily operations and even our financial services groups.
We think about M&amp;A and combination in terms of each and every one of those groups and the multiple kind of parts that can be brought together and used as offsets.
There are in our opinion limping antelopes out there for us to consider as targets across our platform.
And those opportunities for us are enhanced as we focus on the organic side of our business breeding excellence in each and every one of our components.
So in the homebuilding world we've had a more vibrant kind of landscape where many are performing quite well in other areas there are more difficult trajectories for some of the potential targets and we think there are opportunities there as well.
As the landscape evolves we're looking at all of the opportunities in M&amp;A to enhance our business and to build shareholder value.
But in all instances an acquisition target is measured against an excellent organic growth program as the baseline and in order for us to engage M&amp;A which is a lot of work and a lot of engagement it's got to be something that works really well for our company.
Just quickly technically I'm sorry if I missed this I was broken out before the call got dropped by me.
Bruce can you give out guidance around for fiscal '16 the tax rate and your outlook for community growth Bruce? We did we've said the tax rate for ’16 would be about 34% and the community count would grow in a range approximately 8% to 10%.
Our next question comes from Jade Rahmani of KBW.
Your line is open.
Actually my question is related to Stuart's last point its clear Lennar has evolved into much more than a home builder.
So I wanted to ask how you envision the story evolving from here.
Do you think with the ancillary businesses the strategy will be to monetize individual vehicles through asset sales IPO spin offs M&amp;A or would you at some point consider creating an umbrella asset manager company to oversee the various businesses and even development of future businesses? Just want to know what you think of the asset management business? We’ve been very tuned into the asset management business.
We’ve of course modeled the number of scenarios relative to that.
This is a process of construction.
We are looking and have been looking at a variety of scenarios as to how we take these maturing businesses and enhance shareholder value.
While we’re not opening the curtain just yet and giving a peek inside I think that we have day-lighted the fact that we look at these as unique opportunity set to build shareholder value.
I think we’ve got some real treasures in these ancillary businesses and whether they are looked at as in their entirety each individually or whether we bifurcate our thinking around the core asset and the management assets is something that’s very much on the table and that we think about pretty regularly.
So the answer is we’ll all have to wait and see.
It’s a dynamic environment and even the public markets are dynamic environments in that regard.
I think that as a proxy remember that we have already highlighted that we are working on the programming for FivePoint and as more information becomes available and with our confidential filings we’re going to keep the market apprised but that’s one step in answering the question that you’re asking.
On Rialto I wanted to ask if you think Rialto can continue to buy B-pieces [ph] primarily through third party funds as its industry leading much as demonstrated or with the onset of risk retention whether Rialto will need to put at least half of these investments on its own balance sheet in order to satisfy the risk retention rules? Well look the risk retention rules are in a dynamic phase right now.
There is a lot of legal question around risk retention.
We believe that Rialto is uniquely positioned to be able to benefit by the operation of the risk retention rules as they take shape and firm up.
So I can’t give you a definitive answer to that right but it is our belief that Rialto will be able to continue to invest a lot of money in that very dynamic investment class.
And structurally while we might have to adjust in order to meet the risk retention rules in some way as they continue to evolve we think that the momentum of the market is moving towards the Rialto like investor away from some of the hedge funds and other competitors that have been out there and Rialto’s strongly positioned to be able to do a lot more business in this arena and risk retention will really benefit our platform.
Thanks for that.
Appreciate it.
Okay let’s take one more question.
Thank you.
Our last question is from Mr.
Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Just first expanding on a lot of the answers you’ve given vis-à-vis capital allocation M&amp;A in the mix as a possibility et cetera.
Can you just also update us on your thoughts on where you want the balance sheet to be and return of capital to shareholders how that gets prioritized in your thinking at this stage? This is the question that occupies a lot of our management time.
We have been focused over the past couple of years of turning our ancillary businesses into primarily asset like high returns high turnover businesses and as I highlighted with Rialto that process is maturing.
We continue to deplete legacy assets and enhance our asset light program on the apartment LMC side of the business.
You’ve seen us make a strategic move this year towards a fund manager which enables us to become much more asset like in that regard as we go through 2016.
FivePoint of course has been self-sufficient using its own capital for quite some time.
The answer to the question is we’ve been moving away from capital heavily and towards capital light in all of our ancillary businesses and of course on the home building side we’ve talked about tapering back on land acquisition and land development the land component of the business going less long -- not going short just yet but less long over time.
As Bruce highlighted the numbers in terms of land acquisition we’re down a little bit year-over-year in terms of land acquisition.
Really the more interesting thing is as we're growing our business our land spend is fairly static right now which means as a percentage it's going down we're really focused on a cash flow model which of course as we go forward we think is going to necessitate a question about how we start to think about returning capital we will start by reducing our debt and that will start as we go into the future and then we will start thinking about capital return to shareholders.
And on the debt side is there a specific target or range that we should be thinking of this as where you'd want to take it to before contemplating other potential uses share repurchase or what have you? I think just as right now I wouldn't give a specific metric on that we’ll kind of wait and see but remember that our leverage because of our substantial earnings has been drifting down and we will continue to drift down even if the debt level remain static.
Nevertheless we think that during the maturing of the home building market we're going bring that debt level down before we start returning capital but we will start returning capital as well.
Okay and two real quick follow on on Rialto I just want to confirm I assume you do not have recognition of carried interest in the guidance you've gave and what would cause there to be a booking of carried interest in 2016 possibly? We did not include any of the carried interest in the guidance unless there is cash that's received that's what determines the booking and profitability.
Jeff you want to comment on it? This is Jeff.
Yes I mean in an essence what’s been recognized today have been the advances -- under the documents we get advances against taxable income and that's basically what's been recognized to-date.
There are -- in the guidance those ongoing cash receipts are projected but nothing in addition to that unless the cash has been received.
Okay if there is a quick easy answer to it on the mothballed communities can you give us a sense as to the -- roughly speaking what percentage of deliveries or revenues in 2016 are expected to come from mothballed communities? About the same as we said in 2015 close to 10%.
Okay very good thanks everybody for joining us for our report this quarter and for yearend and we look forward to a vibrant 2016.
Thanks for joining us.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you all for participating.
You may now disconnect.