Our next question is a follow-up.
It comes from the line of Bill Bonello with RBC.
LLC</strong> Hey thanks a lot for taking my follow-up.
It's kind of a 2 biscuit morning here.
I am wondering Gen-Probe yesterday announced that it received FDA approval for its trich test.
Is that something that you could anticipate seeing some pretty substantial demand for I mean where we could kind of think about physicians who are checking the box for chlamydia and gonorrhea going ahead and check in the box for trich.
As you know Bill and I appreciate the fact that you're talking about checking different boxes because as you know we feel quite strongly about the need not to jam these things together in a way that it encourages odd ordering pattern.
So I think the answer to your question is it's an option that we will offer.
I do think that there will be a good deal of physician interest in the test.
And my belief is that we have been offering the test in some form already as number of other labs.
But certainly the fact that Gen-Probe got the approval should bring some further focus to physicians on appropriate utilization.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the investment that you wrote off in the quarter care to tell us what that was? So that's 2 follow-up questions.
So now it must be a 3 biscuit morning and no the only thing we're going to say about it is we periodically make investments and ideas that we think are interesting opportunistic and strategic and have the potential to work out well for us.
This was an opportunity that was interesting and opportunistic and strategic and did not work out well for us.
In my recollection in my 10 years at LabCorp it's the first time that we've sort of had anything like this.
It just was not successful but I view it purely as a onetime event and not something that there's a risk of repetition.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then a final at risk of being until I get 18 biscuit morning the CPT coding initiative.
I know in the past you guys have sort of indicated you're not really worried about it but I continue to get a lot of questions from investors about it.
I'm hoping you can give us some more rationale for why you're not really worried about it.
Is it just you look at and you say gosh we're hard-pressed to see that rates would actually come down or is it more of when we add up the amount of revenue we get from stack coding it's just not that much? Okay this is a complex question so let me try to address the various component parts of it.
First of all there's developed this kind of idea that somehow stack coding is a bad thing and that could not be more inaccurate because the way -- CPT stands for Current Procedural Terminology and the P is Procedure and so we build by procedure.
So if we perform in a particular molecular test if we perform a particular procedure like a DNA amplification 20x then it is absolutely appropriate to bill 20 units of DNA amplification and bill 20 to that CPT code.
There's nothing wrong with what "code stacking".
However what has been pointed out to the lab industry is a couple of things.
One there are some labs that use CPT coding to generate and the way that they code their tests to generate higher revenue for testing than other labs.
And this is a concern because you can look at -- as we were showing in a meeting one time you can look at 4 different labs billing Medicare for the same test with 4 completely different sets of CPT codes.
And so there is a concern that coding in general and it's not code stacking it's just coding in general can be used in a way that maximizes reimbursement.
And we don't do that and obviously we do not support it.
The other thing that is a concern is there's very little transparency in what the payer sees from a CPT coding perspective.
So they look at to go back to my example 20 units of DNA amplification and they don't know what they're buying.
They don't know if that's a cystic fibrosis test.
They don't know if it's fragile X.
They don't know what the test is.
And so there has been a push for greater transparency in coding which has led to the idea that we should have a single code for highly-utilized molecular test like cystic fibrosis and fragile X and some others.
And we support transparency in coding and billing and obviously that's a laudatory goal.
So the reasons that in our view this is not a particularly big issue is at least at present is first of all this is a Medicare initiative and the amount of molecular testing particularly in these categories like CF and fragile X that you do for Medicare is really immaterial.
Second of all we don't have any indication that there is any consideration of major changes to reimbursement as a result of this initiative.
So nobody said well cystic fibrosis reimbursement is going to be dramatically cut as a result of this and usually -- and we don't know how these tests are going to be reimbursed.
But our expectation is that reimbursement levels can be relatively consistent with what we've seen in the past.
And that would be the fair way to handle them the appropriate way for CMS to handle it.
So I realized it's a long answer Bill and I'm sorry for having gone on.
But I think it's important that people so really understand what's going on here which is we do support transparency in coding.
We do support payers knowing what they're paying for.
We don't have a huge amount of revenue at risk and believe me we are through ACLA and individually and our partner labs in ACLA are doing the same thing.
We are going to fight to make sure that there is not a negative impact on reimbursement as a result of this initiative.
LLC</strong> Thank you very much.
Thank you Jeff.
We appreciate your taking time to listen to our first quarter earnings call and hope you have a great day good day.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning and welcome to LabCorp's First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Joining me today from LabCorp are Brad Hayes Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Ed Dodson Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and Steve Anderson Vice President Investor Relations.
This morning we will discuss our first quarter 2011 financial results highlight our progress on our 5-pillar strategy and provide answers to several frequently asked questions.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Steve Anderson who has a few comments before we begin.
Before we get started I would like to point out that there will be a replay of this conference call available via telephone and Internet.
Please refer to today's press release for replay information.
This morning the company filed a Form 8-K that included additional information on our business and operations.
This information is also available on our website.
Analysts and investors are directed to this 8-K and our website to review the supplemental information.
Additionally we refer you to today's press release which is available on our website for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call to GAAP.
These non-GAAP measures include adjusted EPS excluding amortization free cash flow and adjusted operating income.
I would also like to point out that we are making forward-looking statements during this conference call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results.
These statements are based upon the current expectations and are subject to change including based upon various important factors that could affect the company's financial results.
Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our 2010 10-K and subsequent filings.
The company has no obligation to provide any update to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now Brad Hayes will review our financial results.
Thank you Steve.
By now you should have had a chance to review our first quarter financial results.
On today's call I'll discuss 4 key measures of our financial performance: cash flow revenue growth margin and liquidity.
First cash flow.
Our cash flow remained strong.
Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months ending March 31 2011 was $735.9 million which was reduced by approximately $20 million due to delays in the Genzyme Genetics enrollment process.
We expect that these delays will be resolved in due course and are reiterating our 2011 operating cash flow guidance of $900 million.
We remain pleased with our cash collections.
DSO increased 1 day year-over-year to 47 days at the end of March and increased sequentially by 2 days.
Excluding the impact from Genzyme Genetics DSO improved 2 days year-over-year to 44 days at the end of March and increased sequentially by 1 day.
Our bad debt remained stable at 4.7%.
Second revenue growth.
Revenue increased 14.6% year-over-year in the first quarter.
Genzyme Genetics accounted for approximately 8% of this growth.
During the quarter we achieved strong growth in revenue for requisition which increased 8.2% year-over-year.
The growth in revenue per requisition is attributable to acquisitions rate increases test mix shift and increases in test for requisition.
Genzyme Genetics accounted for approximately 6.5% of the growth in revenue per requisition.
Total company volume increased 5.9% year-over-year during the first quarter.
Genzyme Genetics accounted for approximately 1% of this volume growth.
Esoteric volume increased approximately 11% in the quarter.
Third margin.
For the first quarter our adjusted operating income margin was 19.3% compared to 20.4% in the first quarter of 2010.
Recent acquisitions that we have not yet fully integrated caused a 180-basis point drag on margin.
Over time as we integrate the businesses we expect margins to improve.
Fourth liquidity.
We remain well capitalized.
At the end of March we had cash of $195.4 million and approximately $420 million available under our revolving line of credit.
At the end of March total debt was $2.2 billion including $40 million drawn down on our revolving credit facility.
During the first quarter we repurchased approximately $265 million of stock representing approximately 2.9 million shares.
At the end of March approximately $469 million of repurchase authorization remained under our previously approved share repurchase program.
This morning we updated our 2011 financial guidance.
We expect revenue growth of 9.5% to 11.5%; adjusted EPS excluding amortization in the range of $6.17 to $6.32 excluding the impact of any share repurchase activity after March 31 2011; operating cash flow of approximately $900 million and capital expenditures of $140 million to $150 million.
I will now turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Brad.
We are extremely pleased with our first quarter results.
We generated strong revenue growth of 14.6%.
Volume increased a solid 5.9% and esoteric volume increased approximately 11%.
Importantly our organic volume increased more than 3% which reflects a continuation of the positive trends we saw beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Revenue per requisition remained strong increasing 8.2%.
Genzyme Genetics accounted for approximately 6.5% of the revenue per requisition growth.
Similar to last year inclement weather negatively impacted revenue by $22 million and EPS by $0.08.
Our continuing focus on optimizing our business would have resulted in operating margin expansion excluding the impact of recent acquisitions.
The impact of weather further weighed against our margins in the quarter.
Excluding the impact of Genzyme Genetics our DSO declined on a year-over-year basis to 44 days reflecting the continued exceptional performance of our operational and billing personnel.
And Genzyme Genetics had an impressive quarter recording one of its strongest historical performances.
I would now like to update you on our progress on our strategic initiatives which are focused on providing the highest quality laboratory services at the most reasonable costs thereby providing the highest value for each dollar of laboratory spend in the healthcare system.
The first pillar of our strategy is that we deploy our cash to enhance our footprint and test menu through acquisitions and to repurchase shares.
As I just mentioned our recent major acquisition Genzyme Genetics is performing well.
We are extremely pleased and appreciative of the skill and dedication we observe among the Genzyme Genetics personnel who are now part of our LabCorp family.
Earlier this month we announced our intended acquisition of Orchid Cellmark an international provider of DNA testing services primarily for forensic and family relationship applications.
The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and if received we would expect it to close later in the second quarter.
While not material we expect the transaction to be neutral to GAAP earnings and slightly accretive to cash earnings in 2011.
Finally in 2010 we repurchased $337.4 million of our shares and we have repurchased approximately $265 million of our shares thus far in 2011.
The second pillar of our strategy is to enhance our IT capabilities to improve physician and patient experience.
We have already incorporated Genzyme Genetics' result delivery into our Beacon platform.
We are also implementing Beacon order entry functionality nationally and deploying specialty modules so that healthcare professionals can order all LabCorp services and receive results through a single online portal.
We are also developing and introducing the Beacon patient portal an Android version of Beacon Mobile and the Beacon hospital edition to meet the needs of our clients and patients.
The third pillar of our strategy is to continue to improve efficiency to offer the most compelling value in laboratory services.
We are continuing to improve automation in our laboratories which allows us to lower our cost structure increase throughput and redirect personnel to customer-facing positions.
We are expanding our touch and AccuDraw order entry systems throughout our network to improve physician and patient experience.
Touch is an on-screen draw tool that allows us to fully accession specimens in patient service centers reducing paperwork and labor.
The fourth pillar of our strategy is to continue scientific innovation at reasonable and appropriate pricing.
Adding the Genzyme Genetics scientists to our strong scientific team at LabCorp will allow us to continue to lead the industry in scientific discovery and initiatives in personalized medicine for years to come.
We will continue to introduce new tests and collaborate with leading companies and academic institutions to provide our physicians and patients with the most scientifically advanced testing in our industry.
In 2011 alone we intend to bring at least 15 new tests to market in the area of women's health genetics and oncology.
The fifth pillar of our strategy is to consider alternative delivery models.
We believe there will be incentives to our industry and healthcare in general to move away from traditional fee-for-service models.
We will continue to work on these alternative delivery models to provide the highest value for each dollar of laboratory spend in the healthcare system.
These 5 pillars will allow us to continue to execute on our foundation model enhance customer service and patient care provide cost-saving opportunities to the healthcare system and create value for our shareholders.
In summary we are pleased with our first quarter performance and we remain excited about the opportunities on our horizon and the strategies we employ to realize them.
Now Steve Anderson will review anticipated questions and our specific answers to those questions.
Thank you Dave.
Why are you not adjusting your guidance higher given your performance and weather? Our guidance encompasses a wide range of potential outcomes and we are only 1 quarter into 2011.
That said in reviewing the most recent analyst estimates for 2011 we continue to note that the diluted share count estimates differ considerably from our own and from each other.
It appears to us that many of the components of the First Call estimates include future share repurchase and our guidance does not.
We would like to remind you that our original guidance included $234 million of share repurchase that occurred in January.
Finally in reviewing the analysts' models we do not believe that seasonality of our business is captured within many of the published estimates.
We have previously noted that the fourth quarter tends to be the lowest quarter from a revenue and earnings perspective due to seasonality weather and holidays.
However this is not currently reflected in most of the analysts' models we have reviewed.
Can you update us on the mix of your business coming from esoteric testing? In the first quarter approximately 40% of our revenues were in the genomic esoteric and anatomic pathology categories.
As we mentioned on our fourth quarter call our new goal is to increase our esoteric test mix to approximately 45% of our revenue within the next 3 to 5 years.
Does acquiring Genzyme Genetics limit your ability to repurchase shares or act upon other acquisition opportunities? We repurchased approximately $265 million of our shares in the first quarter and have $469 million of authorization remaining under our previously approved share repurchase program.
While we do not comment specifically on share repurchase we have historically been a consistent buyer of our shares.
We do not believe we are precluded from making acquisitions as usual or from pursuing our strategic goals.
Can you remind us of how drugs of abuse volume trended during the year? In the quarter our drugs of abuse volume increased approximately 14% year-over-year.
That compares to a year-over-year increase of 12% in Q4 of 2010; 13.9% in Q3 of 2010; 15.4% in Q2 of 2010; and 6.8% in Q1 of 2010.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Steve.
Thank you very much for listening.
We are now ready to take your questions.
LLC</strong> Hey thanks for taking my question.
I got a follow-up on the guidance even though Steve gave some explanation of where you're at relative to where analysts are.
I'm still a little puzzled.
I mean you grew EPS by more than 8% year-over-year in Q1 and at the high-end of guidance you're looking for less than 5% growth.
At the low end you're looking for EPS of less than 2% growth.
And so I appreciate the conservatism in 1 quarter doesn't make a year but I just want to make sure that I understand if there's anything in particular you're looking at over the next 3 quarters that would make the comps more difficult than they were in the first quarter because intuitively if anything it would seem like the comps would get easier as Genzyme becomes less of a drag.
It's Dave.
I'll start and then I'm going to let Brad give you some specific details.
But let me first say that we do not see any major clouds on the horizon or bumps in the road that caused us to be concerned about the guidance.
As you say 1 quarter does not make a year and the guidance that we gave as we always say is intended to encompass a broad range of potential outcomes.
So there's nothing out there that is a concern to us that we see coming down the road.
But the quarter was in line with our internal expectations.
And as Steve mentioned the share count and the seasonality do have an impact on where we see the estimates versus what we look at internally.
So with that I'll turn it over to Brad to add some color.
Dave -- and I can't think of much to put on top of that Bill other than just to reiterate.
You don't anything unusual in the model going forward.
And I think our first quarter was in line with our own expectations and as Steve said the fourth quarter tends to be our lowest quarter in terms of revenue and earnings and we don't think that's incorporated.
Also the share repurchase in our model does not occur.
So I think again looking at expectations externally versus our own that is a major driver.
LLC</strong> Okay that makes sense.
It seems like share repurchase maybe contributed 300 basis points or something like that to the EPS growth.
So just one follow up and I'll hop back in the queue.
Just Quest and discuss on this call the need to make incremental investments in this business and in particularly in phlebotomist and patient service centers.
And I'm just curious if you're seeing anything out there in terms of sort of increased competition in terms of access to draws and in particular if you're seeing any significant uptake excuse me any significant uptake in the demand for -- in office phlebotomist? Bill it's Dave.
I think if you look at our year-over-year patient service center numbers you will see that they're probably up by a total of about 100 and most of that is due to the Westcliff acquisition.
So our patient service center numbers are relatively stable and I think in terms of access for patients and access to draws we're not seeing anything that would cause us to feel that there's an increase in competition.
Obviously it's always a very competitive business.
In terms of an office phlebotomy that's been an area in which we have certainly seen growth over time.
I would say it's relatively stable at this point.
So as we've said many times our strategy here is to use the efficiency gains that we're making in the laboratories in the patient service centers to redeploy our personnel into customer-facing positions.
So we are continuing to invest in the business.
A lot of that investment goes into IT and automation and better efficiency and that allows us to basically put more people in front of the customers without having to increase our headcount.
And Bill one more thing I just wanted to add to your EPS question.
I'm looking at some detail here.
I mean operationally we definitely don't see anything unusual.
I think it just goes to looking at the diluted share counts over the quarters of last year compared to our assumptions in this year.
So we started off Q1 '10 with a higher share count obviously than we ended.
So that the lower share count Q1 '11 drives a greater growth rate.
So I think as the shares came down in '10 that's what's driving in your question the lower growth rate going forward in our sort of no-share repurchase guidance.
LLC</strong> Makes sense.
Thank you.
Hey Dave you mentioned that Genzyme had a very impressive quarter.
But I mean year-over-year can you give us any kind of data how it did? We know it contributed to your volume and revenues but internally what was the performance there year-over-year for the Genzyme asset in isolation? Without making reference to specific year-over-year performance Bob what I would say is from a revenue perspective my understanding is this was the best quarter that Genzyme has recorded in its history in terms of revenue performance and we also were pleased with the profitability of the business.
But didn't we move to a LabCorp managed-care contracts or has that not happened? And yet I would've thought revenues would have taken a bit of a dip before rebounding.
All of that is in process but it's not fully implemented.
So that's part of the reason.
As we get into the second half of the year we expect to see more of that impact in both our pricing and the overall price.
I got you.
And just from a consolidation standpoint I mean it's early but anecdotally can you cite any activities that have happened that have resulted in some savings? Yes.
The major activities as we said from the beginning what we started out with was the kind of SG&amp;A stuff.
So FedEx logistics the overlapping personnel for example financial staff which we didn't need.
There has been -- we've made some move to consolidate the sales forces particularly in the Oncology business.
And we continue to look at all the areas of overlap to make sure that we're moving toward optimizing the business.
But as I've said from the very beginning with regard to this acquisition the number one priority is maintaining and growing the revenue and that's why we're really very pleased with the revenue performance this quarter.
Obviously as the revenue grows that enhances the profitability of the business and makes it less necessary to look at operational cuts.
So we're continuing to look hard at the opportunities that we have in SG&amp;A and facilities and other overlapping areas.
But at the same time making sure that top line revenue is stable and growing is number one for us.
And on the valuation for the Orchid deal visionary by the way what have you assumed for the federal and state NOLs in terms of the availability with the change of control? Bob this is Brad.
Those are family limited because they're based on purchase price and go out over some amount of time.
So I don't think we're getting specific on what our assumptions are related to that.
But it's cash flow entirely in its benefit.
Right and the accessibility of those NOLs you don't lose them in the change of control? We don't lose them but they get limited.
Again I said quite a bit by purchase price and other factors in the calculation.
And quickly on the strategy there you said the intention to keep the Orchid facility is open or will you consolidate those revenues with your existing business? Bob it's Dave.
We've not made a final decision on that either -- well in the U.S.
In the U.K.
the intention is to keep the Orchid business essentially as is and I think it's actually the Cellmark brand over there.
We're still subject to regulatory approval on the U.S.
transaction and so we have not even begun to do any planning on what the businesses would look like after our close.
Okay.
And lastly Brad you have mentioned there would be some new disclosures this quarter.
I see what's missing.
What have you added? I guess we're waiting for the queue is that it? Bob I'm not sure exactly what you're referring to.
The 8-K is filed so that has information and when the Q is filed it will have the traditional information which has some detail around revenue volume and revenue per requisition for our core esoteric and other businesses.
Okay so that is in the queue.
That's all we're looking for.
All right thank you.
Maybe just first going back to the question around guidance.
I mean you've got Genzyme delivering 8% this quarter.
You look at the other acquisitions that are annualizing that's another 1.5% 2% of revenue.
You got 3% organic revenue growth this quarter.
I mean what's going to result in I guess revenue being below the top end of your guidance for the year? Brendan it's Dave.
I mean I don't know what we could really say beyond what we've said already which is that this is 1 quarter.
Obviously we're very pleased with the quarter.
But 1 quarter does not make a whole year.
We know that in the second half of the year the Westcliff and DCL acquisitions will annualize starting in the third quarter.
And we get 11 months of Genzyme not 12 months of Genzyme because that deal closed in December of last year.
So obviously we're optimistic that we're going to perform well.
But at the same time we have 1 quarter under our belt and we want to be realistic in terms of the way we think about the business.
And as Brad said and Steve said the share count matters and the seasonality matters and we don't give quarterly guidance but the numbers that are out there for the fourth quarter just by historical basis are not squaring with the seasonality that we see in the business.
Sure okay.
And then maybe on the Empire contract I mean have you guys started to -- you mentioned in the past that there was a slow ramp up there and I'm curious if you guys are starting to gain additional traction there.
And then as part of that I don't know if you have a number in your mind in terms of like what the total revenue opportunity is not necessarily what part of it you could capture but what the total revenue from Empire that goes to -- in a reference labs is? I don't have a number in mind in terms of the total revenue.
I think my recollection is about 1.5 million members who have a lab benefit and so that's the base.
We have seen a marked improvement in our Empire volumes this quarter and very pleased about that and we expect that to continue to improve.
And just a last question on that I mean so it's growing off for the small base but is it big enough that it's actually moving some of your metrics and then actually driving some of that 3% organic growth? Well every encounter with a patient matters in terms of driving growth.
So it is off the small base but at the same time anytime you see share gains within a new contract that's a good indication that we are getting organic growth.
So it's small but it still contributes.
Fantastic.
Thanks.
LLC</strong> Maybe if there's any insight into any restructuring charges throughout the remainder of the year.
You guys were kind enough to give us what the charges were in the quarter but how are you thinking about it through the remainder of the year? Gary this is Brad.
I think as we continue to integrate Genzyme Genetics and some of our other acquisitions from the middle of last year there's the possibility that you'll continue to see some other activity in that line.
LLC</strong> Okay.
In line with kind of what it was in the first quarter or should it diminish over the period of the rest of the year? I wouldn't want to go as far as estimating amount.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just given what sounds like the strength in Genzyme any change in your thoughts of when it might be accretive? Do you think it might be accretive a little bit sooner so maybe towards the end of this year as opposed to into next year? Gary it's Dave.
Again terrific quarter for Genzyme.
We're very appreciative of the effort of the Genzyme leadership team starting right from the top and the sales leadership as well all the way down to the individual employees the sales people the lab employees the genetic counselors who've just done a terrific job and really put their shoulder to the wheel in terms of making this business successful.
Again I think it's too early to make a statement that it's going to be better than we thought that it would be.
As we noted in response to Bob Willoughby's question I mean there will be some managed -- we expect that there will be some managed-care pricing implications later in the year.
So I'm delighted with where we are and I have every hope that it will be better but I don't think we're prepared to incorporate that in any of those financial metrics.
Thanks.
I just have some more volume questions if I may.
I guess just a follow-up to Brendan's earlier question.
If you look at the 3% organic volume growth number is there any way to get conceptually just how much of that is really due to sort of true underlying improvement in utilization as correlated to Physician Office business versus the Empire or drugs of abuse? Amanda it's Dave.
I think you can try to slice this down to a very fine set of numbers but I think the better way to look at it is we saw -- what I would say is we saw strength in all aspects of the business.
We saw strength in esoteric we saw strength in the core we saw strength in Empire we saw better volumes in OB/GYN practices that we've been seeing for the last couple of quarters.
So I don't think it's -- and we saw better drugs of abuse volume.
So I don't think it's necessarily easy or productive to slice every little piece apart as opposed to saying we had good volume growth we continue the trend that we saw in the fourth quarter and we're cautiously optimistic but that's the trend we're going to continue to see throughout the year.
Okay fair enough.
And I guess just trying to get you to this place a little bit more maybe.
On the esoteric side of the business that was obviously pretty strong and seemed to be strong sort of ex-Genzyme as well.
Can you maybe talk I know you're not disclosing the specific segments anymore but maybe the histology side of the business is that in-sourcing still moderating as you talked to last quarter? Yes.
The histology side of the business was -- we continue to see the moderation of in-sourcing.
I will say we're starting to see in-sourcing now in the Dermatopathology business which is concerning for all that reasons that we've articulated utilization concerns quality concerns.
But the in-sourcing trend has definitely moderated from where it was a year ago and we continue to work for legislative and regulatory resolutions to what we consider to be a matter of concern continuing concern.
Again I have this last one on Genzyme again just a follow-up to your comments about their quarter.
Any way to get a sense of what sort of drove that? Is it market share gains? Is it OB/GYN business coming back? Any better sense there? What drove it is a terrific effort and performance by the Genzyme leadership team and by the LabCorp leadership team in terms of the collaborative way in which we're integrating the business.
What drove it is a terrific performance by the Genzyme sales reps the Genzyme genetic counselors the lab people.
I mean it's just -- it was a great performance.
They came in to the organization energized.
They've had strong leadership from the top about why it's important to retain the business and continue to be successful.
We've got great leadership on the LabCorp side and collaboration in terms of the steps we've taken in the integration.
So those are the real reasons.
I think as I said before it's a people effort putting their shoulder to the wheel and just doing a tremendous job.
Thanks.
A couple of things here.
I guess first the official guidance last quarter on the Genzyme deal was $0.16 to $0.26 dilution to the cash EPS.
I'm wondering if somebody asked about would it be accretive could you at least just give us a flavor for -- do you see it being less diluted or do you still see within this range? Just trying to get a little more color around that.
And also how much of the upside of the quarter really is from Genzyme versus other factors.
Just trying to get -- from your sense what were the true drivers of the upside of the quarter if you had to rank order them? Thanks.
And Dave said earlier it's too early to -- while we're pleased with how things have gone today it's too early to call.
So I would say we still believe that range of $0.16 to $0.26 dilutive is the right range.
On the contribution to the quarter again slightly better performance that we had modeled but I would not say that that was a major contributor to the quarter that we reported.
Okay.
All right thanks.
Thanks.
Just going back to the Esoteric business I think you said it was up 11% that's exclusive of Genzyme? That's including Ralph.
It was 7% excluding.
Okay.
All right that's helpful.
And then just in terms of Westcliff can you give us a sense of what had been in your guidance previously and maybe kind of what's changed given the developments there? Ralph it's Dave.
My recollection is that we had expected that we would be able to integrate Westcliff I think beginning in June.
And so up until that time I think we had assumed that we would continue to lose about $0.01 a month there and that we would basically turn breakeven kind of in the second to third -- I'm sorry in the third to fourth quarter timeframe.
So we got a little bit of a head start but nothing is going to materially change the numbers.
Okay.
And then maybe get into the margin opportunity going forward a little bit more.
Obviously margins are depressed now just given some of the recent acquisitions.
Can you give us a sense about where you think margins can go and I don't know if you want to consider a normalized environment or once we get through some of the recent acquisitions you guys have done? I think what we've said and continue to believe is that with the foundation model if we are growing the top line sort of in the 4% to 6% range that that should lead to 20 basis points of margin expense and all other things being equal.
So there's a lot of noise in this quarter because of Genzyme Westcliff DCL weather obviously.
But to me what's instructive here is that if you take out all the revenue and all the expense associated with the acquisitions gross margin would have been up operating income margin would have been up.
So what that says is that kind of on 3% volume growth and 5% revenue growth we would have achieved margin expansion which is exactly what we state the foundation model should lead to.
And then just the last one can you just get into a little more -- you talked about sort of one of the 5 pillars being sort of an alternative delivery model.
Maybe just give us a little bit more details around exactly what that kind of encompasses and how to think about that? I think it encompasses a whole variety of initiatives that are out there in the marketplace.
I mean obviously people have been -- they've been writing about pre-authorization of molecular testing and genetic testing.
There's been a good deal of discussion about accountable peer organizations and what that's going to mean.
There's been a fair amount of discussion about the mandatory MLRs and how managed-care companies are going to deal with the need to achieve the mandatory MLRs.
So our goal is to understand all of these opportunities work in a collaborative way with managed care and even with the government as appropriate and try to develop options that for those that want to move away from traditional fee-for-service.
And I've said these are important strategic considerations but I will say having to spent some time even studying the ACO regulations none of this is clear or well-formulated at this point.
Okay and this is just a follow-up on that I mean in those scenarios I'm assuming that the ultimate goal from you guys I mean do you see a way that you can sort of preserve and expand margins within those sort of alternative models? Yes.
I mean I think the idea is that there's the opportunity to gain volume and share over time.
And with improved volume and share again pushed through the fixed cost base we should see the opportunity to expand our margins.
Thank you very much.
You guys have obviously done a good job on the acquisition front pretty consistent a couple of big ones but lots of small ones along the way.
Just wondering what your outlook is there and obviously with Orchid there’s some international exposure is international any more attractive to you these days generally speaking or higher on the radar screen at all? Tom it's Dave.
So in terms of the domestic acquisition market again there are a lot of opportunities.
We continue to focus on number 1 being very disciplined and selective in what we want to buy and paying an appropriate price and multiple for it.
Number 2 with Genzyme and Westcliff we have 2 fairly sizable acquisitions that we're integrating.
So the smaller acquisitions are the easier ones to integrate and you should probably expect that those are the ones that we'll focus on that's not to say that we don't have the appetite to do something significant if it comes along but we got a job on our plate to fully integrate those businesses and continue to make them successful and that's taking obviously quite a bit of management focus.
So I would say the acquisition market is attractive.
There are going to be assets coming along.
We're going to look hard the assets that do come along and within our pricing discipline we're going to choose the ones that we want and likely they will be smaller than the last couple of sizable ones that we've done.
On the international market we have the lab in Dubai.
We have the Clearstone joint venture which gives us exposure to some international markets including China Singapore and some other places.
At this point that's just for our Clinical Trials business but it kind of gives us a window into those markets which I think is helpful.
And I think with respect to the U.K.
the opportunity that Orchid Cellmark presents in forensics is quite attractive.
So what I would say about the international market is again don't have the expectation that we're going to do anything big in the international markets don't have the expectation with do anything  game changing.
But certainly we're going to continue to look at international opportunities and in those markets that are attractive whether it's from a demographic perspective whether it's from a growth perspective or whether it's from a clinical trials perspective.
We will continue to participate.
Okay that's great.
And then obviously your commentary around sort of the seasonality and the quarterly progression is pretty clear at the risk of being a dead horse a little but I just did want to understand one thing about Genzyme.
You're not changing your sort of dilution estimates for the year which is fair enough at this point.
But I would expect that that's -- it gets better throughout the year.
And just wondering you've got share count sort of maybe working against you if you're not assuming share repurchases.
You've got seasonality working against you  but will we expect that little less seasonality than normal given that Genzyme theoretically should be ramping up a bit over the course of the year there’s managed-care pressures but there should be some integration too I would think.
Can you help us understand a little bit quarterly progression on Genzyme? Yes Tom this is Brad.
And you nailed all the right points in the managed-care compression we talked about a couple of times.
It hasn't really started to happen yet.
It happens based on different contracts at different times throughout the year.
So that will bring the revenue down and then there are integration activities that are necessary to offset that.
So I wouldn't necessarily describe it as a year 1 clear ramp as the year goes on.
I think in the out years that begins to be true as the revenue impacts annualize and the integration activities continue.
So no I wouldn't think about it as a material progression throughout the year on Genzyme.
Okay what value do we get I guess into the first part of next year just sort of thinking out a little bit further if you got the managed-care pressures still later this year I guess do you really start to see the bigger ramp later in '12 or should we be thinking about it earlier than that? Tom it's Dave.
Just one other thing I want to add to what Brad said which is obviously if we continue to retain the customer base and grow the revenue then you could see better in the second half of this year than our expectation.
But it's too early to tell what's going to happen there.
But that remains our focus is the top line customer growth and revenue growth.
With respect to next year assuming that either some managed-care compression that kind of starts in the second and third quarter obviously it will take us some time to annualize that.
And so again I wouldn't -- there's always opportunity to do better if we perform well from a revenue perspective.
I wouldn't -- we have a very well-thought-out and well-planned approach on the cost perspective and I wouldn't expect that to go any faster.
All right.
Thank you very much.
We appreciate you sort of keeping the ball rolling and maybe you can beat that over time.
Thanks.
This is Brian Zimmerman in for Darren.
I was wondering if you could give us an update on what the next step with the FTC process is regarding Westcliff.
Yes Brian it's Dave.
So just to recap there was a federal court hearing at which the federal district judge determined on the FTC request for an injunction that in his view this was not an anti- competitive situation.
And so he denied the FTC's injunction and the Court of Appeals did not do anything to disturb that ruling.
So as a result we have basically filed a -- first of all we filed a request to take the scheduled May administrative proceeding off the docket which was granted by the administrative law judge and we have filed a request to dismiss the administrative case which I think is presently under consideration.
That actually has to be done by the commission.
So it's their decision.
Okay.
Any sort of time for when you expect to hear a decision from them? We don't have a timeframe on that.
And then could you make any comments on specific facility closings you've had with -- in regards to Genzyme Genetics? No.
No? Okay.
And then you talked a little bit about Orchid Cellmark and some of the opportunities you saw especially in the U.K.
Can you give us some sort of an idea of how you've sized up those revenue opportunities or potential market opportunities? The biggest market opportunity is the Forensics business in the U.K.
and I'm going from memory here so my recollection is that up until March of this year the bulk of that business was handled by a government agency called the FSS.
And that the FSS has basically determined that it is not going to do forensics anymore.
It's going to outsource that to private companies.
My recollection is that the FSS was approximately $150 million a year in revenue and I believe that's dollars not pounds about $150 million a year in revenue that the Orchid Cellmark business will have the opportunity to compete for.
That doesn't guarantee any business but it gives our Orchid Cellmark the opportunity to compete for.
So the revenue opportunity in the U.K.
is attractive assuming that again we have a -- assuming we get regulatory approval for closures a very solid management team over there.
And so the U.K.
opportunity is attractive and that's where we're really focused.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Sorry caught me just choking in my drink.
Just a couple of questions at this point.
Brad I just wanted to make sure on the disclosure are you -- did you suggest that all of the segment metrics that were used to having will be in the queue? I thought you had said before some of that was going to be trimmed down.
It will be consolidated and consistent with what was in the Q -- the Q's and K's  -- the MD&amp;A section on how we described the revenue performance.
So it does not have it exactly as it used to be 8-K's but we think it has adequate information and we talk about it as such in our MD&amp;A section to understand how the business is doing core versus genomic and esoteric.
Okay I just want to make sure I understood.
And the Q is not out yet correct? That's right.
And then I think kind of the only other question I just want to think about so I apologize.
I'm not familiar with how you guys put it in the Q's and K's because we're just -- we were used to pulling it out of those 8-K's.
But for example will we be able to see the core business separately or not? Yes.
Okay.
So I guess maybe the answer is just wait till the Q comes up.
And I was just trying to think about the total volume to 5 9 you said up 4.9% excluding Genzyme and more than 3% excluding other acquisitions and I guess I'm still trying to kind of parse it down it looks like drugs of abuse may have added 80 bps and esoteric may have added 70 bps which will put core maybe in the 1.5% range.
Am I in the ballpark or I mean...
One other thing to consider is that in the reported number our loss contracts are now annualized.
So that was about a point drag in the past that's no longer with us.
So that's why when we take out all of those things when Dave referenced the 3% earlier we try to take out all of those different moving parts and then reported number out we did get better.
But the organic number taking out all the moving parts that we mentioned of just over 3% is a little bit up from Q4 of last year.
And if we go back a little bit first half of last year was very challenged even neutralizing for all those parts started to gain some strength in Q3 and 4 and it continued into Q1.
So you've lost that drag and that's part of why the number looks better.
And that kind of more than 3% number what do you think that number looked like adding back to your estimate of weather impact? Weather is taken into account.
Right.
I know it's in there but well that -- because you've added that back already so the real number wasn't up that much or that's the number including the impact of the weather? Well let's go to this.
Year-over-year for us weather wasn't an issue.
So in any year-over-year comps for us we're not thinking about weather.
So you called out $0.08 of weather.
Am I thinking the wrong quarter? During this quarter you called out $0.08 of impact from weather but you're just saying you had a similar impact a year ago so...
We called out our -- our EPS was impacted $0.08 in this quarter compared to for example our expectations.
But on a year-over-year basis it was exactly the same.
The weather impact was roughly the same year-over-year.
Yes that's exactly right.
And to revenue it's neutral because we lost the same amount of revenue in the first quarter of last year.
Right got it.
And then finally just still around the volumes.
Regionally is there any color that would be helpful for us to think about given that I'm sure everyone's trying to ascertain sort of where we are in the cyclical or the modest cyclical recovery we might be getting here on some of these volume metrics.
Is there any regional color you have that might help us think about that? No we really saw pretty consistent performance all around the country.
Okay.
That's all I have.
Thanks.
A couple of questions Dave.
First off as a follow-up to Amanda's question it sounds like we have fairly well-rounded volume improvement across some of the business lines in the East specifically called out OB/GYN.
Anything else to point out here? And then secondly can you help us take a little bit about the trend as we moved over the balance of the year here and I guess what I’m trying to get at is did the trends that we see in the quarter were they fairly well rounded throughout the quarter or do we see some sporadic and January is crummy because of weather and things improved in February March et cetera? Thanks.
How many times did we say we don't give month-by-month guidance.
You guys keep trying so I got to give you credit for persistence.
I'll take it.
So the answer is that obviously there was severe weather in a couple of months January and February that has an impact on the overall quarter.
However the trend was pretty consistent and we're not going to break it down month-by-month because the minute we start doing that then you're going to want it week-by-week or day-by-day.
So it was a consistent performance in terms of volume during the quarter.
As I've mentioned it was consistent across the business lines.
We didn't see any area of great strength or great weakness.
Obviously esoteric did well.
Some of that was helped by Genzyme some of that was just helped by good growth in several lines of esoteric testing.
And what I would say Bill is the trend in 1Q was very consistent with what we saw in 4Q of 2010 and our guidance assumes that the trend is not going to get measurably better throughout the year and it assumes it's not going to be measurably worse.
So it assumes that the trend is going to be relatively the same from a volume perspective throughout the year.
And that -- again we would love to do better and if we see recovery in things like commercial managed-care lives and job creation it's conceivable we could do better but we're not building any of that into our expectations.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
And then Brad I guess it's a risk of getting too granular on the fourth quarter organic number.
You mentioned obviously it was lower than the 3%.
In the first quarter about 2% is that the right way to think about it? In the fourth quarter of '11 or '10? Fourth quarter of '10.
I think we said 2.7%.
I've got it.
Must have missed that.
Thank you very much guys.
LLC</strong> Your competitor yesterday in discussing Q1 volumes felt that there was an extra business day in the quarter around the timing of the New Year's holiday.
Is that a factor in your thought process regarding how much we should extrapolate Q1's performance? Kemp this is Brad.
Not a factor for us.
Our days were the same in the first quarter of this year versus the last.
You may ask how can that be? All days are not created equal and we weight our days based on strength and when we add that up to the first quarter of this year versus last we see the same number.
LLC</strong> Okay fair enough.
And everything else is covered.
Thank you.
I have a couple of questions.
The first one on the pricing side just to confirm.
I think you've mentioned in the prepared comments that Genzyme accounted for 6.5% of the growth.
So should we think about the base business or the core growth of about 1.7%? And are there any moving parts in that number that we should normalize for? Ricky this is Brad.
You're right on the math of what the base business is.
No moving parts to normalize for other than I would say that back to the volume questions we did annualize the loss of the lower-priced contracts.
So while in the past that's been a detractor from volume and an aid to price on a year-over-year basis.
Now it's not as much a detractor from the volume number and it's actually showing up as a negative in price.
So other than that -- and again we've annualized that.
Other than that can't think of anything that acquisitions were the largest impact by far.
Ricky this is Dave.
The only thing you should factor into your thinking there is because of growth in drugs of abuse testing which obviously has a lower price point that's going to be a bit of a damper on our overall pricing curve.
Okay.
And can you quantify the impact of drugs of abuse or should we add up to that 1.7 number? We don't quantify in terms of the price impact.
I think Steve in the prepared remarks did go over the volume impact.
Right okay.
And then just to clarify on Genzyme based on what you kind of expect today what percent of Genzyme revenues or volumes whatever you're comfortable with do you expect will be under the LabCorp managed-care contract pricing umbrella by the end of the year? It's really too early to tell.
These are ongoing discussions with the managed-care plans and we just don't have a way of making a prediction there.
Is this really the key swing factor to quantify the guidance to quantify feeding guidance versus you coming in line? As a swing factor I wouldn't call it the swing factor because obviously we've built in some assumptions into our expectations.
Okay.
And then just one follow-up question on the OB/GYN.
I might have missed it early on.
Can you just talk about a trend that you're seeing there and kind of like a specific growth forecast  for the women's health test like HPV? I think what we said is that we did see improvement in our volumes coming from OB/GYN offices in this quarter both year-over-year and sequentially.
And so that obviously led to some overall improvement in our Women's Health portfolio.
As you know we don't break down growth in specific tests so HPV continues to grow on a year-over-year and a sequential basis.
And there is nevertheless still more opportunity there.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Congratulations on the quarter.
Can you just remind me if there's any larger contracts coming to you in 2011 that could need to be renegotiated outside of Genzyme Genetics discussions? It's Dave.
I think what we've said is that the Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield Plan in New Jersey does come up in this year.
Those discussions are obviously underway.
Other than that we don't have any sizable contracts in 2011.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And just quickly on additional efficiency programs are scheduled for the rest of 2011.
Are there any outside of just the acquisition-related integrations? Acquisition-related integrations and as we mentioned at the beginning the continued implementation of the AccuDraw and the touch systems moving from patient service centers into in-office phlebotomy and also to the doctors' office through the Beacon platform.
So those are probably the key initiatives in terms of our efficiency programs.
Okay great.
Thank you.
I think everything else has been covered.
Hey thank you.
Just going back one more time to the esoteric the organic esoteric testing growth of around 7%.
Is it fair to say that that's largely market share capture or are you seeing an improvement in underlying demand? Shelley it's Dave.
I just think it's too hard to -- I don't think we have any way of answering that question.
So I couldn't -- I really couldn't give you a good assessment but obviously we're pleased with the growth there in whatever form it's coming.
Okay.
Is it fair to say that it's still a challenging environment and we're not back to the sort of pre-2008 underlying demand environment for either routine or esoteric? We’re still in a pressured environment? Is that fair to say? I think the environment has clearly improved in the last 2 quarters.
We're not back to where we were.
I mean obviously if you look at the newspaper and you see the unemployment numbers and you see the Standard &amp; Poor's view of the government stat and all the other factors out there I mean we're not in a robust period of economic growth.
So sure there are still challenges out there but we have a couple of quarters of what we think are pretty good at least pretty good trends in terms of utilization and growth.
Okay great.
And then on the pre-employment drugs screening which is clearly in double-digit territory what is the margin on that business relative to your -- with the rest of your book of business? Again very hard to talk about the margin by business line in our business.
The Drugs of Abuse business uses most of the existing infrastructure for the core business.
So they use -- it uses the patient service centers it uses the logistics and transportation.
But on the other side of that it doesn't fully bare the cost of the SG&amp;A function or it bares its own S function.
But it doesn't fully bare the cost of the G&amp;A function.
It doesn't bare the cost of the corporate resources.
It doesn't bare the expenses of the divisional their utilization of patient service centers or careers.
So I just prefer to think of it overall as the incremental margin on just about everything that comes in the door is very good whether it's drugs of abuse testing esoteric testing or core testing.
It makes sense okay.
I think just a last one on FDA regulation the lab developed test I think we're still expecting to hear something.
Do you have any guidance on where we might hear something from the FDA? I was at a meeting yesterday with Dr.
Gutierrez presented --  his statement was that it is his hope that there will be something from the FDA by the end of the year.
However there is no certainty of that.
And when he put up his slide about the next steps he commented that it was the same slide that he has been putting up for at least two years.
So I would say we know that FDA's thinking is they would like to get something out this year.
Whether that will happen is really anybody's guess.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Yes thanks.
I know that you're not giving out the exact word phrases of the genomic and esoteric test.
But some have been growing pretty rapidly and I guess the question is when do you expect the growth for things like HPV and vitamin D to slow in terms of year-over-year growth? And then on the goal of getting to 45% of your revenues from genomic and esoteric testing did you give -- I didn't catch if you gave the timeframe of when you expect to get to 45%.
And then lastly on gross margins is the gross margin that you're at today you think that's a stable number and if it's going to vary in any material way why so? we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Laboratory Corp.
of America Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Katie and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to now hand the call over to your host for today David P.
King Chairman and CEO of Laboratory Corp.
of America.
Please proceed.
Thank you good morning and welcome to LabCorp's Second Quarter 2011 conference call.
Joining me today from LabCorp are Brad Hayes Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Ed Dodson Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and Steve Anderson Vice President Investor Relations.
This morning we will discuss our second quarter 2011 financial results highlight our progress on our key strategic initiatives and provide answers to several frequently asked questions.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Steve Anderson who has a few comments before we begin.
Before we get started I would like to point out that there will be a replay of this conference call available via the telephone and Internet.
Please refer to today's press release for replay information.
This morning the company filed a Form 8-K that included additional information on our business and operations.
This information is also available on our website.
Analysts and investors are directed to this 8-K and our website to review the supplemental information.
Additionally we refer you to today's press release which is available on our website for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call to GAAP.
These non-GAAP measures include adjusted EPS excluding amortization free cash flow and adjusted operating income.
I would also like to point out that we are making forward-looking statements during this conference call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect the company's financial results.
Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our 2010 10-K and subsequent filings.
The company has no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now Brad Hayes will review our financial results.
Thank you Steve.
On today's call I'll discuss 4 key measures of our financial performance: Cash flow revenue growth margin and liquidity.
First cash flow.
Our cash flow remained strong.
Free cash flow for the first half of the year was $325 million which is in line with our expectations and historical performance.
Cash flow has been reduced by approximately $20 million due to expected delays in the Genzyme Genetics enrollment process which we had previously discussed.
We expect that these delays will be resolved in the ordinary course and are reiterating our 2011 operating cash flow guidance of $900 million excluding the Hunter Labs settlement.
We remain pleased with our cash collections.
DSO increased 1 day year-over-year to 46 days at the end of June due to the Genzyme Genetics acquisition and decreased sequentially by 1 day.
Our bad debt remained stable at 4.7%.
Second revenue growth.
Revenue increase 13.3% year-over-year in the second quarter.
Genzyme Genetics accounted for approximately 7.6% of this growth.
During the quarter we achieved strong growth in revenue per requisition which increased 8.1% year-over-year.
The growth in revenue per requisition is attributable to acquisitions rate increases test mix shift and increases in test per requisition.
Genzyme Genetics accounted for approximately 6.4% of the growth in revenue per requisition.
Total company volume increased 4.8% year-over-year during the second quarter.
Genzyme Genetics accounted for approximately 0.9% of this volume growth.
Esoteric volume increased approximately 10% in the quarter.
Third margin.
For the second quarter our adjusted operating income margin was 19.9% compared to 21.8% in the second quarter of 2010.
Acquisitions that we have not yet fully integrated caused an approximate 180 basis-point drag on margins.
Over time as we integrate the businesses margins will improve.
Margins expanded sequentially by 60 basis points which is in line with past experience.
Fourth liquidity.
We remain well capitalized.
At the end of June we had cash of $118.9 million and approximately $463 million available under our revolving line of credit.
During the second quarter of 2011 we received notices to convert a portion of our 0 coupons subordinated notes.
The total conversion value of approximately $231 million was settled by cash payments of approximately $143 million and by the issuance of approximately 900 000 shares of stock.
At June 30 the remaining accretive value of the 0 coupons subordinated notes is approximately $140 million.
At the end of June total debt was $2 billion and there were no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility.
During the second quarter we repurchased approximately $60.5 million of stock representing approximately 600 000 shares.
At the end of June approximately $408.5 million of repurchase authorization remained under our previously approved share repurchase program.
This morning we reaffirmed our 2011 financial guidance.
We expect revenue growth of 9.5% to 11.5%.
Adjusted EPS excluding amortization in the range of $6.17 to $6.32 excluding the impact of any share repurchase activity after June 30 2011.
Operating cash flow of approximately $900 million excluding the Hunter Labs settlement and capital expenditures of $150 million.
I will now turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Brad.
We are very pleased with our second quarter results.
We generated strong revenue growth of 13.3%.
Volume increased 4.8% and esoteric volume increased approximately 10%.
Importantly despite economic headwinds our organic volume grew by approximately 2% year-over-year.
Revenue per requisition remains strong increasing 8.1%.
Genzyme Genetics accounted for approximately 6.4% of the revenue per requisition growth.
Excluding the impact of Genzyme Genetics our DSO declined on a year-over-year basis to 43 days reflecting the continued strong performance of our operational and billing personnel.
We continue to make significant progress on each aspect of our Five Pillar Strategy and I will now provide specific updates on each pillar.
The first pillar of our strategy is that we deploy our cash to enhance our footprint and test menu through acquisitions and to repurchase shares.
Genzyme Genetics is performing well.
We are pleased with revenue performance and are on track with planned cost reductions.
LabCorp and Genzyme employees continue to work together to combine the businesses without disruption to our customer base as evidenced by the very limited customer attrition we have experienced to date.
The Genzyme acquisition has allowed us to introduce significant customer benefits given the complementary nature of our services.
With respect to the Genetics business our customers now have broad access to novel tests and technologies such as the SMA molecular genetics assay and the whole chromosome SNP array part of our combined reveal family of SNP Micro Arrays.
On the oncology side LabCorp's broad molecular oncology test menu such as BRAF mutation testing which has applications in a variety of cancers including colorectal cancer and melanoma complements the strong pathology expertise of Genzyme Genetics.
Further LabCorp's broad test menu has allowed us to internalize approximately 50 tests that Genzyme had previously referred to other labs.
Last month we acquired Clearstone Central Laboratories a leading global provider of central laboratory services for late-stage clinical trials.
The acquisition provides LabCorp with Clearstone's global network of central laboratories and clinical trials management system Apollo CLPM which provides clients with realtime access to global data strengthened chain of custody automated sample stability monitoring and guaranteed consistency across all lab sites.
The combined entity will have the largest available Biomarker assay portfolio that globally harmonizes state-of-the-art testing platforms in areas such as pharmacogenomics microbiology immunohistochemistry allergy testing cytogenetics and flow cytometry.
We have stated for some time that our clinical trials' central lab business needed broader international reach and with laboratories in China and Singapore Clearstone accomplishes that goal.
In April we announced our intended acquisition of Orchid Cellmark an international provider of DNA-testing services primarily for forensic and family-relationship applications.
The transaction remains subject to regulatory approval and we are working with the FTC to complete the process.
We continue to expect the transaction to be mutual to GAAP earnings in 2011.
Finally we have repurchased approximately $325.5 million of our shares thus far in 2011.
The second pillar of our strategy is to enhance our IT capabilities to improve the physician and patient experience.
We continue to make progress on our LabCorp Beacon product.
This quarter we launched several new modules migrated half of our Westcliff customers and surpassed 15 000 users on Beacon.
We also plan to introduce our Beacon Order Entry System nationally in the third quarter which will allow our customers to place electronic orders for all LabCorp brands and services.
On the Genzyme front we have converted billing report delivery and other key IT systems onto LabCorp platforms.
The third pillar of our strategy is to continue to improve efficiency to offer the most compelling value in laboratory services.
The national rollout of our Touch and AccuDraw order entry systems should largely be completed by the end of the year.
We are also progressing well with lab automation projects that will lower our cost structure increase throughput and allow us to more efficiently manage personnel.
These automation projects improvements throughout our logistics network and other enhancements in our supply-chain operations have allowed us to increase the per employee throughput in our core laboratories by 30% over the last 4 years.
Further our service metrics customer satisfaction ratings and turnaround times are at all-time highs.
The fourth pillar of our strategy is to continue our scientific innovation at reasonable and appropriate pricing.
We continue to introduce new tests and collaborate with leading companies and academic institutions to provide our customers with the most scientifically advanced testing in our industry.
In women's health we have enhanced our menu of tests for sexually transmitted diseases.
Our testing from the liquid-based PAP bio now includes cervical cancer screening HPV testing including genotyping and detection of 4 of the most commonly transmitted -- sorry 4 of the most common sexually transmitted diseases: chlamydia gonorrhea herpes and trichomonas which recently received FDA approval.
CDC reports that there are over 7 million new cases of trichomonas in the United States each year.
We are pleased to be one of the first labs to offer the only FDA-approved test for this treatable sexually transmitted disease.
Also to simplify specimen collection for our physicians we are simplifying our collection devices adding HSV 1 and 2 to the same collections swab we offer for our other molecular STD testing.
At Monogram we have launched the first in a series of HCV drug resistance assays that have been developed to support the clinical evaluation of HCV direct-acting antiviral agents and their effective use in the management of HCV infection.
Identification of certain mutations may be important for the long-term drug treatment strategy.
These tests add to LabCorp's industry leading suite of HCV testing.
The fifth pillar of our strategy is to consider alternative delivery models.
We continue to discuss alternative models with our managed-care partners as we believe that our healthcare system will continue to move away from traditional fee-for-service payment.
Healthcare reform will likely bring changes to our payor mix and reimbursement systems and our goal in serving our customers will always be to provide the highest value for each dollar of laboratory spent.
In summary we are pleased with our second quarter performance and remain optimistic about our position in an ever-changing healthcare system.
As the most efficient and highest-quality provider in the laboratory industry we believe our services will be increasingly in-demand through the era of healthcare reform.
We are excited about the opportunities ahead and remain focused on executing our Five Pillar Strategy to enhance shareholder value.
Now Steve Anderson will review anticipated questions and our specific answers to those questions.
Thank you Dave.
Can you update us on the status of the Hunter Labs settlement? As previously announced to avoid the uncertainty in costs associated with the prolonged litigation the company has reached an agreement in principle with the State of California and the qui tam relators to settle the Hunter Labs litigation.
The settlement in principle provides that LabCorp will pay $49.5 million without an admission of liability to the State of California and qui tam plaintiffs to resolve all claims against LabCorp.
As a result of the agreement in principle the company recorded a pre-tax charge of $34.5 million $20.7 million of which is after-tax.
The settlement is subject to completion of a settlement agreement accessible to all parties.
The Medi-Cal program continues to reimburse LabCorp for services rendered.
Why are you not adjusting your guidance higher given your performance? Our guidance encompasses a wide range of potential outcomes and we are only halfway through 2011.
We continue to note that the diluted share counts in analyst estimates differ considerably from our own and from each other.
It appears to us that many of the components of the First Call estimates include future share repurchase and our guidance does not.
Furthermore in reviewing the analyst models we continue to believe the seasonality of our business is not captured within many of the published estimates.
We have previously noted that the fourth quarter tends to be the lowest quarter from a revenue and earnings perspective due to seasonality weather and holidays.
Can you update us on the mix of your business coming from esoteric testing? In the second quarter approximately 40% of our revenues were in the genomic esoteric and anatomic pathology categories.
As we reiterated last quarter our new goal is to increase our esoteric test mix to approximately 45% of our revenue within the next 3 to 5 years.
Do recent acquisitions and other uses of cash limit your ability to repurchase shares or act upon other acquisition opportunities? We repurchased approximately $325.5 million of our shares in the first half of 2011 and have $408.5 million of authorization remaining under our previously approved share repurchase program.
While we do not comment specifically on share repurchase we have been a consistent buyer of our shares.
We do not believe we are precluded from making acquisitions as usual or from pursuing our strategic goals.
Can you remind us of how drugs of abuse volume trended during the year? In the quarter our drugs of abuse volume increased approximately 8% year-over-year.
That compares to a year-over-year increase of 14% in Q1 of 2011 12% in Q4 of 2010 13.9% in Q3 of 2010 and 15.4% in Q2 of 2010.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Steve.
Thank you very much for listening we are now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Bill Bonello from RBC.
LLC</strong> Just first a couple of housekeeping questions.
Can you tell us where the restructuring charges that are excluded from the adjusted EPS show up in the income statement? You talked about some of them but not all of them in the footnotes.
This is Brad 18.3% appears in the income statement that's in the press release.
That's the combination of the severance and facility-related restructuring charges.
And Hunter Labs' settlement and the Orchid legal cost are part of the SG&amp;A.
LLC</strong> I see.
I'm sorry so the 18.3% rate is broken out separately.
What a stupid question.
Maybe my second one is just as dumb.
Organic volume growth is that truly organic or does that include tuck-in acquisitions? It's Dave.
The approximately 2% organic growth is truly organic.
So it's everything -- it's all acquisitions backed down.
LLC</strong> That is helpful.
And then I want to make sure I understand the margin impact of the acquisitions.
And tell me if I'm thinking about this right.
I mean if I just take second quarter revenue and I add 180 basis points to operating margin and tax effect that's $0.15 which would say if you could get these acquisitions up to corporate averages there's close to $0.60 of earnings power from these deals.
Am I thinking about that correctly? Bill this is Brad again.
Haven't worked through the math exactly that way but it's hard to find problem with the logic.
I mean I think we've been in the past clear about what Westcliff was doing and we've recently started to integrate that business given the clearance that we received.
Still very early in the Genzyme process.
But absolutely if all things being equal in our business we should see that start to be upside.
Your next question comes from the line of Amanda Murphy from William Blair.
Just a question on Genzyme.
Obviously that business is doing well.
I'm just curious I think you've talked in the past about some sort of cross-selling opportunities between the 2 business lines.
Have you seen any benefit from that at this point? And then also just a question on sort of your plans of branding for that business going forward.
Amanda it's Dave.
Yes I think the cross-selling efforts have been quite successful.
The Genzyme reps have been very much in demand in terms of introducing new testing into existing LabCorp customers.
And as we've mentioned on the call yes we've been able to internalize a lot of the testing to Genzyme we're sending out so that the Genzyme customers basically have one-stop shopping for services that they were ordering from other laboratories.
I think as we progress with the IT integration and particularly the rollout the national rollout of Beacon order entry this will be a further enhancement because it will allow all our physicians to order all of the various LabCorp services from one platform.
So you'll be able to order DIANON order Genzyme order LabCorp order Esoterix from one Web portal as opposed to having to use multiple methods of order entry.
On the branding we have the right under the purchase agreement to continue to use the Genzyme Genetics brand for a certain period of time and we're engaged in a review of all of our brands at this point.
The Genzyme Genetics brand Esoterix DIANON US LABS we have a lot of brands as a result of our historical growth by acquisition.
And I expect that by the end of this year we'll have a good deal more clarity in terms of where our long-term branding strategy will be going.
And then just switching topics to insourcing for a minute.
I noticed that you're not breaking out the histology piece anymore but just curious if you can provide some perspective on -- it seems like that for you guys had been I guess improving or the growth -- rate had been slowing.
Are you still seeing that dynamic? I think you're always hesitant to say that you're on the bottom because we don't know.
But the trend of insourcing absolutely has leveled off in our business.
We're just not seeing the kind of insourcing that we were last year and the year before.
Our histology volumes we actually had little year-over-year growth which we are happy to see and an improvement sequentially.
So the challenge with insourcing is that as you get through a wave of one set of physicians insourcing other physicians start at least exploring the behavior if not imitating it.
And so I think we're kind of at the -- we've weathered the major part of the storm and we feel pretty good about where we are.
That's helpful.
And then just kind of a question I guess pretty high level but given the sizable PBM transaction announced this morning that combined and you will have 1/3 -- access to 1/3 of the prescription drugs out there.
I'm just curious as lab testing becomes more and more important part of therapeutic and healthcare provided medicine if you will how do you kind of envision the lab working together with the PBMs and other players in the healthcare sort of value chain.
Well we have a terrific relationship with both Express Scripts and Medco and we admire both of those companies and their leadership a lot.
We've had a long-standing pharmacogenomic project with Medco around several double drugs and associated diagnostic tests Tamoxifen Abacavir and we've actually been expanding that program.
So I think that you'll continue to see a tighter link between utilization between drug utilization particularly expensive drugs particularly oncology drugs and what I would describe as gatekeeper-type lab testing.
So before some of these drugs can be prescribed a diagnostic test would be required to assess either safety or efficacy.
I think as the -- as we see consolidation in PBMs this will only increase the momentum because the goal of the PBM industry obviously is to make the provision of therapeutics both more efficient and more cost effective and the labs will have a significant part in that.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Feinstein from Barclays.
Dave maybe just get your point of view in terms of I mean -- so the 2% organic volume growth is a pretty good number in the current environment very strong relative to the peers.
I think I'm just curious to get your thoughts in terms of what's going on.
I mean do you guys assume you're taking market share with that type of growth rate? So just -- how do you think about the 2% relative to the industry? A couple of things Adam it's Dave.
I think the 2% is a very strong performance given to reiterate what we said in the press release what we perceive to be some mounting headwinds on the economic front.
I mean we're not seeing the unemployment rate come down in any significant way.
We're not seeing a lot of job creation in the private sector.
We're not seeing a lot of increasing enrollment in managed care plans.
And as the IMS data suggests they're directional but nevertheless they're out there.
Utilization in a number of physician specialty areas seems to have declined from 1Q to 2Q.
So I think the 2% is a very strong performance and we're very pleased with it.
I'm always reluctant to claim that we're taking share or that somebody else is losing share or that we're performing better than the industry.
What I would say is a lot of the investments that we have been making in our business and continue to make in our business in IT in logistics in automation in efficiency are manifesting themselves in the marketplace through better service improvements in quality better turnaround time more satisfied customers and I think that's what you're seeing.
I think what you're seeing is as other peers have essentially reduced investment in their business as a result of the economic headwinds and we've continued to invest our metrics are improving.
And as a result of our metrics improving we're becoming the lab of choice.
And then I guess the second question would just be so with Genzyme you guys have laid out expectations for us at the time the deal closed.
Would you say it's running better than what you anticipated or it is running in line? How should we think about the integration thus far? I think in terms of the integration we're doing very well.
In terms of the financial performance I'd say we're doing a little better than our expectation.
The one thing we have not seen yet is the impact on managed care pricing that we had talked about earlier on.
And as a result of negotiations and contractual discussions I think we've done a good job in demonstrating the value proposition of Genzyme but as we get into the second half of the year we'll see a little bit of that compression.
And that's going to have an impact on overall performance.
Nevertheless financially I'm very happy with where we are customer retention very happy with where we are and in terms of what we outlined to improve the cost structure I think we're doing very well.
Okay and then just a final question for me is just with everything going on in Washington clearly a lot of moving parts but just curious to get your thoughts in terms of what we're hearing about cuts for labs and we've talked about this copayment every couple of years but certainly just curious to see how you guys are thinking about that and any thoughts? Yes obviously the situation is very fluid and literally changes by the hour.
I mean what I would say is we at LabCorp and I think we as an industry continue to be adamantly opposed to this idea of a copay or co-insurance.
And way back at the time of debt-rupt [ph] there was 20% LabCorp insurance and we made an agreement with the government that in exchange for taking a significantly lower fee schedule the copay would be eliminated.
So that was the deal that we made and that is the deal that we have had for more than 20 years.
If you look at the clinical laboratory fee schedule update from 1995 to 2011 we have had cumulative now this is not average this is a cumulative update of 7.7% and we have agreed over the next 4 years to take a 1.75% cut per year plus a productivity adjustment to offset the CPI as the laboratory industry's contribution to healthcare reform.
Contrast that with in that same period inpatient hospitals are cumulatively up 51.4% outpatient hospitals cumulatively up 35.6% physicians cumulatively up 27.9% DNE [ph] cumulatively up 13.6%.
So we've received less than half of the cumulative updates of other healthcare providers.
We've agreed to take a reduction.
And to me imposing a copay and just the government saying we got savings by shifting costs on to senior citizens and private lab companies would really be an unconscionable outcome.
So as you could tell Adam I have some very strong feelings about this and I think they're shared throughout the industry.
The consequences of a copay on smaller labs and particularly those who serve nursing homes and indigent populations would be catastrophic.
And -- so I'm hopeful that politicians will see that this would just not be from a financial or a policy perspective a good long-term solution.
Your next question comes from the line of Ralph Giacobbe from Credit Suisse.
David I just wanted to go back to sort of your comments on the sort of mounting economic headwinds.
We've obviously seen better results on the volume side over the last several quarters and I think the hope had been that kind of the worst was behind when we think about sort of the last couple of years.
So I guess maybe it'd help to just put sort of the mounting economic headwinds that you talked about in the context of -- maybe what you're seeing what you're thinking going ahead is there -- has your mindset changed a little bit as we move through the quarter? And maybe it'd be helpful -- I know you don't typically do this but did the progression of the volumes moving through the quarter sort of change your views as you've seen things fall off at all? Well I think talking about the progression of volumes in the quarter is not helpful to anybody because it's just a -- what was yesterday as opposed to how are we doing cumulatively.
And cumulatively at 2% organic growth and close to 5% total growth I think we've from a volume perspective I think we had a terrific quarter.
Obviously you can look at the numbers and see that the rate of volume growth on a year-over-year basis trended down a little bit this quarter.
You can also see that physician office visits according to the IMS data trended down a little bit this quarter and at least if you believe the June data trended down very dramatically in June.
But our basic outlook remains the same and remains what it has been which is that I think we are through the worst of it.
I think that part of the impact that you always see in the first part of the year is as private insurance patients are working through copays and deductibles you'll see impacts on utilizations.
So we're not changing our perspective or our outlook for the balance of the year.
And as I've said for months if not quarters we expect the volume trend to basically continue as it has been since 4Q of 2010 and don't see anything dramatic happening there.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then just in terms of some contracts.
Obviously last year you got yourself into the Empire contract.
Any update from what you're seeing there? And then maybe any update on Horizon and when a decision could be made? Well Horizon goes through December of this year and we continue to be in discussions with the plan and are hopeful that a decision will be sooner rather than later.
A lot of that is -- obviously is not in our hands.
But I think we have a very good partnership with Horizon.
I think we've had a very constructive and productive relationship over the course of the contract and feel good about where we are.
On Empire we're seeing significant volume gains there so I think we're starting to execute the opportunity and much improved over where we were in 4Q and we just need to continue the momentum.
And then just my last one.
Any greater interest from managed care around -- trying to get more volumes sort of out of the hospitals into some of the independent labs? Any increased discussion there or interest from them on that front? Well there was an analyst note that highlighted some of the disparities in payment which I think caught the attention of some managed care companies and validated a lot of what we've been saying historically.
So I think there's a greater degree of attention.
On the other hand the same considerations remain which are the managed care companies' broader relationships with the hospitals and their need for other services from the hospitals.
So I think there's a sharpened focus on it.
And I also think what we'll start to see in 2012 is we'll start to see some pilot programs by managed care companies in various markets to see if there are ways that they can influence hospital utilization and moving work out of the hospitals.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich from Deutsche Bank.
So I wanted to just go back to Steve Anderson's prepared remarks around the seasonality topic.
And obviously you've driven that point home a lot in the last couple of quarters just from a modeling and guidance perspective.
Now I guess from the analyst perspective my own at least one of the things that we're trying to reconcile is that the progress that you're making from an integration standpoint and you've obviously called out 180 basis points of margin impact in this quarter alone.
I guess maybe Brad if you can just help us think about that in the context of how the rest of the year progresses.
There's been a lot of integration activities.
We can see it in the severance charges et cetera.
So will some of that activity just not show up in the second half of the year or does the managed care pricing that you've referenced from Genzyme more or less offset some of that? Can you just help us think about it a little bit more in the context of what normally we understand in the seasonality? Right.
Here's what I think about it.
Most of the things that you mentioned were in our original thinking for the year.
So there's nothing in the back half of the year at this point that's any different than we thought going in.
So we're comfortable at the midpoint of our guidance but we look out at what's out there and everything is higher.
And Steve also pointed out in his comments that it seems to be in my detailed review this last quarter the operating metrics were very close but the share count was what was the difference.
And so when we compare what those expectations are to what our own models suggest it pops out in the fourth quarter.
And the fourth quarter of kind of the average of what's out there is maybe slightly higher than the third quarter which if we look back over time is just something that is not achievable in terms of reality taking out some things that have happened in the past in the UnitedHealthcare contract year announcement and some other acquisitions or things of that nature.
So that's really the basis of Steve's comments and the way we think about the rest of the year.
That's really helpful.
And then if I could just on the triggering of the conversion rates I know you laid that out as 900 000 incremental shares.
Can you just maybe remind us or clarify on a year-to-date basis and then any reasonable assumption or estimate that you might have post Q2 in terms of the impact of that on the share count? Right.
Well one thing to consider is those numbers are already in the share count when it comes to fully diluted EPS.
So from the beginning of that security that's always been in there.
So it's really just an exchange between outstanding and that line item in the reconciliation of shares to diluted shares.
But it's really not an impact on the EPS that we report.
Got it okay.
And then Dave your comment I just want to go back to around Genzyme.
You said limited attrition and I think you are referencing either revenue or clients I'm not sure.
If you could just clarify.
But maybe just compare that to the last couple of quarters where I think you were saying there wasn't really much attrition at all.
And is there any real change at all with regard to attrition? Darren no.
No change just different words but our customer retention has been extremely high and we're very pleased about it.
Nothing has changed between first and second quarter here.
Okay and I guess my last question just would be on the Medco relationship.
And you've highlighted it a lot in the past.
Can you maybe just frame for us how significant that relationship is at this point? And I don't think there's anything to read into the security of that relationship if anything gets bigger but can we put that in the context or some financial context for the company at this point? Yes it is not material to any of our numbers.
So the hope would be over time and particularly with the -- assuming that this transaction gets approved that with the combined power of the 2 entities that it does become material but at present it's not -- you wouldn't see it show up anywhere that would make a meaningful difference in the numbers.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Ellich from Piper Jaffray.
A lot of my questions have been answered but I do have a few more.
Dave just going back to the 2% organic growth which is a very good number relative to some of the competition in the industry.
Do you actually think the industry is growing at this point? Or is that all market share gains? Kevin that's a hard question to answer.
I do think the industry is growing.
I think for all the reasons we've articulated: demographics new test offerings better understanding of utilization of test by physicians I do think the market is growing.
At the same time obviously they're -- the peer comparisons suggest that we may be growing faster than the industry and we feel great about that.
But I don't think we're in a declining industry at all.
I think there is great -- I mean the Medco relationship which hopefully will become the Medco Express relationship as that transaction proceeds is one of many examples where there's a tremendous opportunity for diagnostics to grow in the system and at the same time contributes to reductions of overall healthcare expense.
So I think the industry is in a terrific position for growth.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then thinking about expectations going forward do you think 2% can hold up? I mean we all look at IMS physician offices' the data which might not be the greatest data points.
So I'm just wondering what your view is on that correlation between physician offices' data and volumes? And also United a few days ago indicated utilization trends are expected to increase in the back half of the year.
I think that actually had commercially covered lives increase by about 0.25 million I think.
So how does that play out relative to your business? Do I think a number in the neighborhood of 2% is sustainable for the rest of the year? Absolutely.
Will it be exactly 2% in the third and fourth quarter? Can't say that.
That's -- we just can't -- we don't have that level of visibility but a number in that neighborhood yes that is sustainable.
United's suggestion that utilization will increase in the second half of the year it's welcome news that people think that utilization and particularly physical office visits would increase because diagnostics and lab testing obviously are a key component of not only how we treat sick people but how we keep people well and how we improve people's health.
So that's -- it's encouraging to hear.
Obviously it conflicts a little bit with the data that we at least are seeing from IMS.
But we're -- I'm not telling you anything you don't know.
It's a very bumpy economic time.
And I think from our perspective we're going to continue to invest in the business as we have been we're going to continue to execute on the key initiatives and I think we're well positioned to continue to grow.
I understand.
Okay.
And then a couple of days ago the Institute of Medicine came out with their recommendations for women's health preventive screening including HPV testing.
Have you had a chance to look at that and what sort of impact do you think that'll have on the Lab business? It should be good right? I have not had a chance to look at it.
I think -- so -- I mean I think any recommendations that would suggest that we should be increasing the use of diagnostics for screening for diseases like cervical cancer would be beneficial to the labs and again I think as a matter of sound policy going back to what I said about the copay would you rather discourage people from getting screening by imposing copayments on tests and pay for the cost of acute care for cervical cancer later on.
And I realize that past screening is not a key Medicare test but from a policy perspective the point is if you discourage people with copayments and beneficiary obstacles from getting screened diabetes cardiovascular disease then what you're going to end up doing in the long run is paying more for acute care.
Got it.
And then when you issued your guidance originally this year did you guys know that EmblemHealth's recent plan was going to terminate its agreement with Monogram and also Genzyme Genetics? I don't think we knew that.
I believe that is a -- let me say that the termination of Monogram and Genzyme Genetics by Emblem has nothing to do with their performance or with LabCorp's performance.
My understanding is that is a health plan that has an exclusive contract with Quest and that when those entities were acquired by LabCorp they are contractually obligated to terminate us for their contact with Quest.
So it's not a reflection on the performance of Monogram or the performance of Genzyme in any fashion.
I don't think our guidance incorporated that but I also don't think it's -- that the impact the financial impact there is material enough to impact the guidance one way or the other.
Got it.
And then just one last question for Brad.
In your prepared remarks you stated acquisitions not completed was a 120 basis point drag on margins.
180.
180.
Does that -- was that only or could somewhere kill what hasn't been closed or...
No that wouldn't be impacting it Kevin.
It's just that Genzyme and LabWest or a Westcliff.
Got it.
Okay that's helpful.
[Audio Gap] Tom you're line is open.
You may proceed with your question.
A lot of question have been answered appreciate all the detail just sort of 2 follow-ups I guess.
That 2% organic growth as you sort of think about the country and the markets is it fairly evenly spread? Maybe can you identify anything that maybe unique in one market versus another? I know it's hard to understand market share but maybe thinking about it that way could be helpful? Yes we really can't break it down.
It's -- we don't see any market regional differences.
Okay.
So pretty consistent? Yes.
And then you obviously are talking about the macro environment.
What about smaller deals? You've been very successful over the years sort of doing the tuck-in type deals which I think can be pretty helpful over time.
Are those types of labs maybe any more willing to sell any more desperate to sell to use a different term? And sort of do you think that environment maybe has been more compelling than it has been or sort of status quo? I think the acquisition environment continues to be attractive.
There are lots of opportunities in the market.
As you know we try to be very disciplined about the deals that we do and particularly the fold-in deals.
But we will continue to be active in that market and to look for opportunities.
As we've said to execute on the first pillar which is to enhance both our geographic and our -- geographic footprint and our test menu.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor from Citi.
A couple of questions.
Is there any material difference in that organic revenue organic volume growth between commercial and Medicare? Anything you can comment on? No nothing that we see.
Okay.
Another question for Dave.
I was intrigued by a comment you made earlier in the call just about health plans interested at exploring or I guess fee-for-service kind of going away and health plans interested in exploring alternative payment arrangements.
Maybe I'm not quoting you properly but could you add a little color around what's happening there? Sure and I don't mean to suggest that fee-for-service payments are going away or are going away anytime soon because that gets sort of the standard payment model.
But if you look at everything from accountable key organization rules to bundled payments to many of the things that are on tap in the CMS innovations center I mean everybody is trying to look at ways to make the delivery of healthcare more cost-effective and improved quality.
I saw a write up yesterday about one insurance managed care plan that is proposing premium differentials based on whether patients are willing to accept a menu of what they describe as high-quality lower cost hospitals and if patients are willing to -- if the insurers are willing to accept that menu of hospitals then they pay a lower premium than people who want to be able to go to any hospital that they want.
So in my view the point is we're going to see a lot of pilot programs we're going to see a lot of efforts to move away from a per-procedure basis for the payment of healthcare services and move more toward whether it's bundled payments whether it's episodes of care whether it's a flat rate to take care of the patient for the whole year.
These are the things that are going to be tried out and obviously we need to be engaged with our managed care partners and with the government as well in a way that these ideas are being thought about to make sure number one that the value of lab services is recognized and how much we contribute to effective healthcare and high-quality lower cost healthcare; and second to make sure our interests are protected so that we don't end up being financially compromised by something like a bundled payment or an ACO system.
Great.
And I guess it's not obvious that historically when you've had capitated contracts that the value of diagnostics was recognized so is there a new way to bridge that gap or was capitation really a California-specific heavy managed care situation and it's going to be viewed differently? I guess my concern is can you get the commercial guys to recognize that value under an alternative payment model? And I guess capitation's the best example we have of one and the rates are materially lower.
Ladies and gentlemen please standby.
[Technical Difficulty] We were getting a little theoretical there.
I just had one more quick question.
How much of your Commercial business renews just annually evergreen? I don't know the answer to that off the top of my head.
We probably have 3 000 different managed care contracts and the vast majority of them renew annually.
But obviously when you look at -- in terms of size the sizable plans United WellPoint CIGNA Horizon the top payers are on fixed-term contracts that renew at periodic dates.
All right.
So I guess I'm just trying to think about -- when is kind of the next year where you've got say 20% of your fixed contract renewals coming due? Is that right about 2014 or is it even later than that? I hesitate to go with the 20% number only because is it revenue or number of contracts.
The big renewal year for us is going to be 2013.
As we've said that's the year WellPoint and CIGNA are the major renewals.
So that's the next year where we'll have a couple of sizable contracts up for renewal.
Your next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser from Morgan Stanley.
This is Claire Diesen actually filling in for Ricky.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just have a couple of quick questions for you.
First I was just wondering if you could provide a little bit more information on the phasing in the Genzyme business coming under your managed care contracts.
I know you mentioned we might start to see some impacts on the second half of the year.
Is this something you could roughly quantify in terms of what percent of business might be coming out of these contracts and what the impact on your pricing metric might be? Almost all of the business is already under our managed care contracts and any pricing or financial impact is already quantified in the guidance that we've provided.
Okay great.
And then lastly not to be a dead horse here but obviously the 2% organic growth is really impressive.
Could you say anything more in terms of what you're doing to achieve this? Is it increased sales and marketing? Are you taking share or are your customers taking share? Well I think obviously we provided a good deal of commentary on this.
First of all we've talked for a considerable number of quarters about the investments that we're making in the business the investments in increasing our geographic footprint whether it's through acquisitions or through opening new service centers the investments in improving physician and patient experience through IT through improvement of throughput in our patient service centers through simplification of our practices through automation in our laboratories to improve turnaround times and throughput.
So my view is what we've done is we've set out a clear set of initiatives.
We've executed well on those initiatives and we're now seeing the benefit of those initiatives which is that our service metrics are better than they've ever been our customer satisfaction is better than it's ever been.
And what we need to do is to continue to invest in the business and execute the initiatives that we have underway and I think we'll continue to see positive results.
Your next question comes from the line of Dane Leone from Macquarie.
I just wanted to ask I think last quarter you said that the Women's Health business is an area of core growth and there's been impressive rollout of products and what you highlight this quarter.
I was just curious given a more challenging macro environment how did Women's Health specifically do this quarter I guess maybe fundamentally and then in terms of some market share gains? It's very hard to quantify or think about market share gains.
It's just -- I think in terms of the way we look at the business Women's Health grew in the quarter which is good.
Yes obviously we're happy with that.
There is continuing fluctuation in path volumes which we've talked about for better than a year now and the path trend drives a lot of the women's health trend.
But overall we're very pleased with the progress in Women's Health.
And again one of the key initiatives there is to simplify collection.
The collection devices make it easier for physicians to do business with us and for us to provide high-quality results to the physicians and the customers.
Okay.
And then just out of curiosity in terms of the Clearstone acquisition could this be an entrée into more of a clinical testing model in Asia? I think it's too early to tell.
We need to understand those markets and the goal -- the specific goal on Clearstone was to serve the needs of the pharma companies and the CROs who send us laboratory business by having laboratories in China where there are very complex restrictions on being able to move blood or other human specimens out of the country and also the market presence in Singapore because it is a hub for clinical trials lab testing for all of South Asia.
So we will look at that but it's way too early to reach a conclusion on whether that will be an entry point in the long term or not.
Your next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill from JPMorgan.
This is actually Gavin Weiss sitting in for Lisa.
I just wonder if you could give us any additional details on the Orchid transaction and the FTC increase.
We really can't give much more in the way of details.
We did receive a second request from the FTC.
We have responded to that request.
We are cooperating with the FTC and desire to see this transaction concluded because we think it would be beneficial not only to LabCorp and Orchid employees but also to LabCorp and Orchid customers and we hope to get it resolved promptly.
Yes.
And then CMS held its public meetings on the 2012 Medicare payment rates for new codes this week.
Is that material to you guys and can you provide us with any outlook on how those meetings went? My understanding is that the major topic of the public meetings was the molecular CPT coding initiative and I believe that CMS made the determination as to molecular codes that will be placed on the clinical lab fee schedule and that the decision on coding and payment has been deferred for a year at least a year so at least into 2012.
So generally we view that as a positive outcome.
That's a very complex process both the coding and the setting of the payment rates.
And I think it's commendable that CMS has decided not to rush into any decisions there.
I think generally the lab community views are well regarded at CMS and they listen to our input and we're hopeful that we'll continue to have a collaborative working relationship with them.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Bonello from RBC.
LLC</strong> I guess I just wanted to one more time follow up on one of the guidance questions and maybe ask the question that Darren asked slightly differently in terms of seasonal progression and then just get clarification on something Brad said.
So if I look at last year and I just view the exact same split of EPS between the first half and the back half of the year then -- and put that onto this year EPS would be at $6.42.
And maybe you got about $0.05 from share repurchase last year so take that out and you're still at the very high end of the guidance.
Was there anything unusual about the progression of earnings in 2010? Bill not that I recall.
And I'm looking at just specifically to the Q3 Q4 comment.
$1.47 in Q3 and $1.34 in Q4.
Are we tracking the same numbers? LLC</strong> Yes I think so.
I don't know.
I just -- I did -- literally I just took your adjusted EPS for what you said it was for 2010 and what you said it was for the first half of the year and did the math.
Yes and I've done that same math and I get that we did 49.7% in the first half of '10 to the total.
51.5% in '09 51.7% in '08 and 50.6% so far this year so I don't think it's materially different in terms of a progression and I go back to -- just to reiterate what we said operationally when I look at what's out there we're very close.
It all comes down to shares and we'll see where it's off if it's Q4.
LLC</strong> No that's fine.
And then just on the other thing that the stocks have dropped like a rock when you made a comment that you were comfortable with the midpoint of the guidance and I'm glad you're comfortable there.
But I just want to make sure that we weren't supposed to read anything more into that.
I mean you're comfortable with the whole range of the guidance I would hope.
That's exactly right.
It is to pick some point to answer the question on.
At this time you have no further questions.
I would like to now hand the call back over to Mr.
David King for closing remarks.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
We thank you all for joining us on our second quarter earnings call and hope you have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you very much for your participation in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Laboratory Corp.
of America Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Keisha and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
David King Chairman and CEO of LabCorp.
Please proceed.
Thank you Keisha.
Good morning and welcome to LabCorp's Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Joining me today from LabCorp are Brad Hayes Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Ed Dodson Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and Steve Anderson Vice President Investor Relations.
This morning we will discuss our third quarter 2011 financial results highlight our progress on our Five Pillar Strategy and provide answers to several frequently-asked questions.
I now like to turn the call over to Steve Anderson who has a few comments before we begin.
Before we get started I would like to point out that there will be a replay of this conference call available via the telephone and Internet.
Please refer to today's press release for replay information.
This morning the company filed a Form 8-K that included additional information on our business and operations.
This information is also available on our website.
Analysts and investors are directed to this 8-K and our website to review this supplemental information.
Additionally we refer you to today's press release which is available on our website for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call to GAAP.
These non-GAAP measures include adjusted EPS excluding amortization free cash flow and adjusted operating income.
I would also like to point out that we are making forward-looking statements during this conference call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect the company's financial results.
Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our 2010 10-K and subsequent filings.
The company has no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now Brad Hayes will review our financial results.
Thank you Steve.
On today's call I'll discuss 4 key measures of our financial performance: cash flow revenue growth margin and liquidity.
First cash flow.
Our cash flow remains strong.
Excluding the Hunter Labs settlement of $49.5 million free cash flow for the first 9 months of the year was $510.9 million.
Cash flow has been negatively impacted by approximately $28 million due to delays in the Genzyme Genetics enrollment process and billing conversion which we expected and have previously discussed.
We expect that these delays will be resolved in the fourth quarter and are reiterating our 2011 operating cash flow guidance of $900 million excluding the Hunter Labs settlement.
We remain pleased with our cash collections.
DSO increased 2 days year-over-year to 46 days at the end of September due to the Genzyme Genetics acquisition and was unchanged sequentially.
As a result of continued success in our billing and collection activities we reduced our bad debt rate to 4.5% during the quarter.
Second revenue growth.
Revenue increased 10% year-over-year in the third quarter.
Genzyme Genetics accounted for approximately 7% of this growth.
During the quarter we achieved strong growth in revenue per requisition which increased 7.8% year-over-year.
The growth in revenue per requisition is attributable to acquisitions rate increases test mix shift and increases in test per requisition.
Genzyme Genetics accounted for approximately 6% of the growth in revenue per requisition.
Total company volume increased 2.1% year-over-year during the third quarter.
Genzyme Genetics accounted for approximately 0.9% of this volume growth.
Esoteric volume increased approximately 7% in the quarter.
Third margin.
For the third quarter our adjusted operating income margin was 18.8% compared to 19.6% in the third quarter of 2010.
Year-over-year margin decline was due entirely to recent acquisitions that we have not fully integrated.
Excluding these acquisitions margins would have increased year-over-year.
Margins will improve as we continue to integrate these businesses.
Fourth liquidity.
We remain well capitalized.
At the end of September we had cash at $85.8 million and approximately $463 million available under our revolving line of credit.
At the end of September total debt was $2 billion and there were no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility.
During the third quarter we repurchased $152 million of stock representing 1.8 million shares.
At the end of September $256.5 million of repurchase authorization remained under our previously approved share repurchase program.
This morning we updated our 2011 financial guidance.
We expect revenue growth of 10.5% to 11%; adjusted EPS excluding amortization in the range of $6.28 to $6.33; operating cash flow of approximately $900 million excluding the Hunter Labs settlement; and capital expenditures of $150 million.
I will now turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Brad.
We are very pleased with our third quarter results.
We generated strong revenue growth of 10% volume increased 2.1% and esoteric volume increased approximately 7%.
Despite continued economic headwinds organic volume grew by 1.2% year-over-year.
Revenue per requisition remained strong increasing 7.8%.
We reduced our bad debt rate to 4.5% during the quarter reflecting the continued exceptional performance of our operational and billing personnel.
We continue to make significant progress on each aspect of our Five Pillar Strategy.
The first pillar of our strategy is that we deploy our cash to enhance our footprint and test menu through acquisitions and to repurchase shares.
The integration of Genzyme Genetics is going well and we are retaining revenue and realizing cost savings as expected.
We remain confident that the transaction will be neutral to slightly accretive to our 2012 earnings.
We remain extremely pleased and appreciative of the skill and dedication we observed among the Genzyme Genetics personnel who are now a strong component of our LabCorp team.
The integration of Westcliff is in line with our expectations and the integration process should be fully completed in the first quarter of 2012.
We are pleased to increase our presence in the California market where we have historically been underrepresented.
In April we announced our intended acquisition of Orchid Cellmark an international provider of DNA-testing services primarily for forensic and family relationship applications.
The transaction remains subject to regulatory approval and we are working with the FTC to complete the process.
We expect the transaction to be slightly accretive to GAAP earnings in 2012.
Finally we have repurchased approximately $478 million of our shares thus far in 2011.
The second pillar of our strategy is to enhance our IT capabilities to improve the physician and patient experience.
We introduced Beacon order entry nationally in the third quarter which will allow our customers to place electronic orders for essentially all LabCorp brands and services.
With the previously released Beacon results delivery capability customers can now place orders and receive results through a simple customer-friendly portal.
We also launched the Android version of the Beacon Mobile application.
We also completed development of the Beacon patient portal.
This portal is a secure and easy-to-use online solution that enables patients to receive and share lab results make appointments pay bills set up automatic alerts and notifications and manage health information for the entire family.
We expect to release a pilot of Beacon patient portal later this quarter.
The third pillar of our strategy is to continue to improve efficiency to offer the most compelling value in laboratory services.
In the third quarter we rolled out our Touch Accudraw systems to an additional 207 sites.
As previously noted we have over 1 000 sites on Touch Accudraw accounting for 76% of our patients service center volume.
By the end of the year we will have an installed base of over 1 100 sites accounting for approximately 80% of our PSC volume.
Touch Accudraw has helped us improve accuracy and workflow at our patient service centers enhancing the patient experience and improving turnaround time.
We have consolidated 5 call centers through the first 3 quarters of 2011.
Over the past several years we have reduced our call clinical -- our core clinical call centers from 55 to 18 locations decreasing our cost per call by 39% while increasing our average speed to answer by 5%.
Finally the expansion of our Burlington lab is scheduled for completion in the first quarter of 2012.
This expansion will enable our current volume to flow more efficiently and allow us to consolidate satellite locations.
We will continue to review our national footprint seeking consolidation opportunities where appropriate.
The fourth pillar of our strategy is to continue scientific innovation at reasonable and appropriate pricing.
We continue to introduce new tests and collaborate with leading companies and academic institutions to provide our physicians and patients with the most scientifically advanced testing in the industry.
To this end we introduced important offerings in women's health and personalized medicine during the third quarter.
In women's health we have simplified specimen collection for physicians by offering a single-swab device.
This device tests for bacterial vaginosis candida differentiation of the most prevalent organisms chlamydia gonorrhea Trichomonas and HSV-1 and 2.
Our single-swab device provides the comprehensive actionable information physicians need to deliver the best care to their patients.
In personalized medicine we recently added to our industry-leading suite of companion diagnostic testing offering tests that can help physicians appropriately prescribe the drugs Zelboraf and XALKORI.
The drugs Zelboraf and the cobas 4800 BRAF V600 mutation test companion diagnostic both from Roche were approved by the FDA on August 17 for use in patients with inoperable or metastatic melanoma that carry the BRAF V600E gene mutation.
The companion diagnostic test is essential for identifying patients who have this mutation and may benefit from therapy.
We are the first national lab to offer this test.
The drug XALKORI available from Pfizer was approved by the FDA on August 26 for use in the subset of non-small cell lung cancer patients classified as ALK-positive.
A clinically validated companion diagnostic was also approved by FDA for identifying these ALK-positive patients that will benefit from XALKORI.
Again we are the first national lab to offer this test.
The fifth pillar of our strategy is to develop alternative delivery models.
The extension of the UnitedHealthcare contract is an important step forward in our fifth pillar as we will continue to be the sole national laboratory for UnitedHealthcare through the end of 2018.
For nearly 5 years our partnership has delivered high-quality laboratory services to UnitedHealthcare's customers and lowered their laboratory spend.
Over the next 7 years both organizations will continue to make investments to improve management of UnitedHealthcare's laboratory networks and their associated costs.
In summary we are pleased with our third quarter and year-to-date performance and the progress we have achieved on our strategic initiatives.
We remain excited about the profitable growth opportunities on our horizon and the Five Pillar Strategy we employ to realize them.
Now Steve Anderson will review anticipated questions and our specific answers to those questions.
Thank you Dave.
Can you describe the potential impact from Medicare reform? The Budget Control Act of 2011 passed by Congress this summer did not include direct cuts to laboratory reimbursement.
However as many of you know this new law established a super committee tasked with recommending a $1.5 trillion deficit reduction plan over 10 years.
If a majority of the super committee reaches agreement on a recommendation Congress must vote on it by December 23 without any opportunity for amendments.
Congress must also address scheduled reductions to the Medicare physician fee schedule sustainable growth rate.
There are numerous proposals circulating to address these issues.
Some of these proposals include further reductions in the clinical lab fee schedule or coinsurance or copayments for laboratory services.
It is too early for us to predict the impact of this potential reforms.
We believe that across-the-board reductions to reimbursement cost-sharing proposals or arbitrary exclusion of services are bad policy.
Such proposals will increase administrative costs to providers deter patients from seeking early and appropriate care and ultimately increase the cost of healthcare.
We are working closely with the American Clinical Laboratory Association and members of Congress to explain our position on these matters and we'll continue to press for responsible reforms and appropriate reimbursement for our services.
Can you update us on the mix of your business coming from esoteric testing? In the third quarter approximately 40% of our revenues were in the genomic esoteric and anatomic pathology categories.
As we reiterated last quarter our new goal is to increase our esoteric test mix to approximately 45% of our revenue within the next 3 to 5 years.
Can you remind us of how drugs of abuse volume trended during the year? In the quarter our drugs of abuse volume increased approximately 9% year-over-year.
That compares to a year-over-year increase of 8% in Q2 of 2011 14% in Q1 of 2011 12% in Q4 2010 and 13.9% in Q3 of 2010.
Do recent acquisitions and other uses of cash limit your ability to repurchase shares or act upon acquisition opportunities? We repurchased approximately $478 million of our shares in the first 3 quarters of 2011 and have approximately $256.5 million of authorization remaining under our previously approved share repurchase program.
While we do not comment specifically on share repurchase we have been a consistent buyer of our shares.
We do not believe we are precluded from making acquisitions as usual or from pursuing our strategic goals.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Steve.
Thank you very much for listening.
We are now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Adam Feinstein with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So just wanted to get some more thoughts just on volumes.
Certainly you guys shared volume growth.
I guess what are your thoughts these days in terms of industry volumes? Clearly you guys have done a great job taking market share.
Just curious in terms of just some of your overall thoughts there.
And at the same time just wanted to get an update in terms of your thoughts around managed care contracting.
You guys talked about the renewal of the UNH contract during the quarter and just wanted to get update thoughts in terms of other additional opportunities.
Okay Adam it's Dave.
Obviously we're pleased with the 3Q volume growth of 2.1% and year-to-date volume growth given the economic conditions.
And our third quarter volume growth obviously included some help from Genzyme 90 basis points some help from drugs of abuse and some organic growth.
So it's a nice mix of contributors to the growth of volume.
At the same time you can obviously see that organic growth was 3% in the first quarter 2% in the second quarter and 1.2% in the third quarter and it was 3% in the fourth quarter.
So the volume trend in general is slowing and I don't think I'm the first person to be saying that in the healthcare services industry.
I think we're seeing that across-the-board.
I guess my overall observation would be that we're not seeing significant job growth in the broader economy.
We're not seeing across-the-board increases in commercially insured covered lives although I'm sure you know that United did say that they have seen a positive trend in their commercial lives.
So I think overall volume growth is going to  continue to be muted until we see recovery in the economy job creation and growth in people who have insurance of one form or another.
In terms of the managed care perspective obviously we've talked about the extension of the United contract which we're very pleased about and that gives us the opportunity to continue working with United towards some long-term goals that we share.
Generally beyond that I would say that the managed care environment is relatively stable.
And I'd summarize it by saying there are really 3 things that are on managed care's radar screens in terms of lab.
One is unit cost.
And we've consistently been the lowest cost provider and we work hard to maintain that position.
Two is trend so that's utilization.
And I think that means that managed care plans are very much focused on leakage and work going outside the network because that drives both trend and cost.
And third is the broad concern that expensive molecular testing particularly if it's being proposed as screening testing for the asymptomatic population can drive both cost and trend in extremely negative directions.
And so I think there's a lot of concern about what new tests are coming to market; will labs be able to show specific applications for those test like the companion diagnostic that we launched in the third quarter that address utilization of particular therapies; and patient response to  utilization of those therapies.
So I think those are the 3 kind of high-level issues that managed care is thinking about as it thinks about labs.
And I think we're well positioned to respond to all of them.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Bonello with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
So first of all historically you've talked about a foundation model that'll result in at least 10% EPS growth.
Can you achieve that kind of growth if  organic volume growth is just 1%? Bill it's Dave.
I think we've sort of put out there that you need 4% total growth to really achieve the foundation model.
And that's of course all other things being equal.
So we had more than 4% growth this quarter but we also have the drag of the acquisitions that are being integrated that are detractors.
I think if volume growth is 1% unless you're going to see 3% price growth it's going to be tough to achieve consistently that kind of 8% OI growth and 10% EPS growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And then Steve did a nice job of sort of summarizing the facts about what's going on in Washington.
I'm wondering Dave just because you're so close to it if you can give us just kind of a sense of feel.
I mean I'm out here in a conference I think that you were at -- well I know you were at last night and the feel I'm picking up here is that people seem to be more worried about the risk of a lab cut actually getting implemented this year than they have at any time in the recent past.
I don't know if that's your read.
I'd love to hear kind of your sense.
Well as I said last evening I mean I think we as an industry have to be aware that everybody is again being asked to contribute to savings.
And so unfortunately what is being considered in Washington is not policy driven it's savings driven.
And a lot of ideas are floating around that's for reasons that we've articulated I think are really bad policy and contrary to the idea of generating long-term savings in healthcare.
So I think if you impose co-pays the likelihood is that in addition to shifting cost to the beneficiaries and ultimately to the lab industry for people who don't pay you're also running the risk of deterring utilization of people not getting screening done.
And as a result creating more acute incidences of care that are going to be more expensive.
And I mentioned last night the study came out on heart failure and hospitalizations and how much progress we've made on hospitalization for heart failure.
Those heart failure hospitalizations cost $18 000 apiece.
You got to collect a lot of co-pays from customers to offset that one single $18 000 incident.
And again one of the reasons that in my view that heart failure hospitalizations have gone down among seniors is there's much better testing of cardiac markers.
There's much better understanding among physicians of what those marker means.
There's broader utilization of statins when people need them.
So all of these things have a cascade effect.
And if you start implementing bad policies ultimately it doesn't reduce cost it increases cost.
That was a -- do I think there's risk? Absolutely.
I think there's risk.
And it's not just -- it's not because it has anything to do with labs it's because there's risk to everybody in healthcare and everybody in healthcare services.
And everybody who got cut in 2010 to make healthcare reform work is -- or to make -- I'm sorry to make the numbers work in the healthcare reform bill is looking at getting cut again.
And we'd be naive to think that we're not being looked at as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Willoughby with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Brad you mentioned that the margin decline in the quarter was entirely due to acquisitions.
And I guess if I look at the second quarter margin deterioration versus the prior year versus this quarter it was much a much more pronounced effect.
Can you speak to kind of what drove the magnitude of the margin hit there? And Bob when you say much more pronounced effect you mean better in the third quarter correct? Research Division</strong> No I think the margin fell a little bit more year-over-year in the third quarter than what the experience was in the second quarter.
I think we were down 80 basis points in the third quarter year-over-year and 190 in the second quarter year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> All right then I'm doing something with my numbers here rather unsavory.
And be sure to look at the adjusted numbers because we obviously have in our adjusted numbers backing out restructuring and onetime things that we call out to you.
So I'm using the numbers that -- on the adjusted operating income side that we talked about.
Research Division</strong> All right I will check that.
My other question just the tax rate in the quarter was somewhat low.
What's -- is there any revision to the guidance for the year then from a tax perspective? Not at all.
And I think it's off quite a bit over the last year third quarter.
Since we implemented -- and the rest of the world should look the same -- FIN 48 several years ago we have a tax rate that typically is lower in the third and fourth quarter than the first and second due to the reversal based on statutes of our uncertain tax positions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just...
No revision to the guidance based on tax rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly on the M&amp;A pipeline is there a desire to look at more pathology businesses that are out there? Or are you seeing some impact on valuation from some non-traditional buyers kind of looking into that market? Is there any change in your perspective on the pipeline? Bob it's Dave.
No change.
We remain interested in pathology acquisitions and particularly ones that fit well into our core pathology strengths including hematopathology.
Obviously you can't minimize the fact that Caris traded at $725 million which is a big price on a high multiple.
So again it's just discipline in the acquisition environment and not overpaying are as important as making sure that we get the right acquisitions.
Your next question comes from the line of Ralph Giacobbe with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to the margins just a little bit just to understand the different components right? When I look at the model looks like revenue 2Q 3Q was roughly sort of the same.
Your SG&amp;A was sort of roughly the same but the big spike came in cost services.
So I'm just wondering if you can help us explain why the jump just in the COGS line? Yes Ralph a couple of factors that come to mind there.
You obviously know about Genzyme Genetics as well as Westcliff and those are going as expected.
We also closed in June an acquisition of a clinical trials organization called Clearstone.
So we have a new acquisition that's in the third quarter that is not fully integrated so that is causing a drag and you're seeing some of that in the cost of sales line as well.
One other thing that comes to mind when I look back at historical relationships between Q2 and Q3 is 2 years ago the company moved from a anniversary date for each employee for merit increases to a common review date and that occurs early in the third quarter.
It doesn't change the overall yearly numbers and our expectations but on a sequential view of margin experience Q2 to 3 it's obviously a factor.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then any hurricane impact or anything else worth kind of calling out in the quarter? Ralph it's Dave certainly not from an earnings perspective.
We probably lost a little volume based on the hurricane but not to the point where I think it's material to talk about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my last one I want to get into pricing a little bit more.
If you back out the Genzyme contribution each of the last 2 quarters pricing has been kind of in the 1.7% 1.8% range.
And I think if we look back in time it's a little bit slower than what we've historically seen maybe closer to kind of that 3-ish percent level.
So I'm just wondering if you could maybe talk about what's going on there as it relates either to pure pricing or the mix and contribution of mix and whether we should sort of ratchet down expectations going forward if you think there is a slowdown that we should consider as the esoteric piece continues to grow but maybe not at the rates that we've seen in the past.
Yes Ralph it's Brad.
One thing that comes into mind as we look at our moving parts in that calculation is the growth of our drugs of abuse testing business has a natural pressure point on that price as well.
And then -- and we've talked about this on several calls one of our largest growers in the esoteric category has been vitamin D.
And that test while it's still growing is not at the rate of growth that it has been since its inception because it's  basically the law of large numbers and it just gets bigger and the percentage goes down and impact on price on a year-over-year basis is not what it once was.
But those are 2 of the moving parts that we look at when we're looking at that metric.
Research Division</strong> If I could squeeze one last one in any update on the Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey? And could you remind us when that contract is up? The contract Ralph expires at the end of the year.
And we don't have an update other than to say that I believe the plan is actively considering where it's going and we feel very comfortable that we've made them a strong proposal.
Your next question comes from the line of Amanda Murphy with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Had a question first on Genzyme Genetics.
So it seems like that's going at least in line with your expectations maybe even better from an attrition standpoint.
Is that still the case? And also curious if the -- you have talked previously about potential managed care contract changes for Genzyme in the third quarter curious if that had a meaningful impact on revenue per requisition growth? And if so how do we think about that over the next 4 quarters? So Amanda it's Dave.
We feel very good about revenue retention at Genzyme Genetics.
And again I think both the Genzyme and LabCorp teams have done a terrific job in keeping those customers happy and maintaining a level of service and actually in many cases improving the overall level of service.
There is some pricing compression that occurred in the third -- beginning in the third quarter and we'll see it over -- there will be a 4 quarter impact on the comparables.
And there will probably be a little bit more but again nothing outside of our expectation in terms of compression.
And we feel good about where we are.
Research Division</strong> And then just to follow up on some of the volume discussions.
The 1.2% organic volume growth is that purely organic or does it also include some tuck-ins in there? When we talk about organic growth I mean our organic growth always contemplates -- I mean when we give guidance we always contemplate that some of our growth is going to come from small tuck-in acquisitions.
So talking about organic growth it would be -- because those tuck-in acquisitions basically involve billing and consumer conversion almost on day 1 after the acquisition closes it would be next to impossible for us to talk about what is volume x fold-ins.
So that 1.2% does include some impact from the tuck-ins.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And any commentary that you can make on just I guess utilization trends? So I think the IMS data just came out for September and it sort of implies sequentially an improvement.
Is that something you saw? So in other words is it getting -- maturing through the year? Getting better worse or the same sort of thing? Yes I don't mean to pooh-pooh the IMS data because I think directionally it's useful.
But we were hearing numbers in July and August like 16% declines in physician offices.
It's now all of a sudden -- when they added September in sequentially it's improved quarter-over-quarter.
So this is a very small data set.
It's based on physician surveys.
I would suggest that even things like doctors going on vacation can have a major impact -- who picks up the phone and answers their questions.
I don't really have much to add in terms of volume to what I said in response to Adam's question which is all of healthcare services is encountering volume softness.
And until we see economic growth and job creation I don't think we're going to see a lot of change there.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just last one.
If you look at the guidance changes can you talk a little bit about what drove that specifically the EPS increase? Is that buybacks that you did relative to Q2 or acquisitions or what have you? Amanda it's Brad.
I think it's basically the realization that there's 1 quarter left.
It's the tightening of the range given 1 quarter and it includes everything in our experience: our operations; the volume and price growth that we've talked about; the margins; and share repurchase obviously.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I want to just go back to your commentary about managed care re-contracting.
And I just want to make sure I'm hearing you clear or if you could just clarify for us what your pricing outlook is.
Has it changed based on some of the re-contracting activities you had this year and anticipate coming up? Or should we expect managed care pricing updates to be relatively similar? Just any commentary there would be helpful.
Darren it's Dave.
I think pricing is -- continues to be relatively stable.
So I don't expect that we're going to see significant price movement in renewals.
As I say I think the big concern is trend.
And I would say trend and expensive testing are higher on the list for managed care than unit cost right now.
So those are the things where plan renewals are focused.
And we historically have been the lowest-cost provider.
We're doing a lot of things to make sure we can continue to be the lowest-cost provider but I don't see a downward price movement coming from these renewals.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just so I'm clear on what you're saying I mean is there any new type of activity that concerns you with regard to pre-authorization or even outright denials on the managed care front for some of these more expensive tests? Well I think all the managed care plans are struggling and employers too by the way because employers who self-insure are struggling as well with how to manage the potential growth of expensive lab testing.
I think a lot of things are being tried.
There certainly have been some attempts at pre-authorization and that's not new.
I mean they had across-the-board policy on pre-authorization of genetic tests probably 4 years ago that they implemented.
It didn't work out very well and they ultimately withdrew it.
So I think this is a trend that we're going to see and it's going to go through pilots.
There'll be fits and starts in terms of how it works but ultimately there's a real focus on making sure that testing that's being ordered particularly expensive testing is the right test for the right patient at the right time.
And I don't think there's anything that we should be concerned about that in that respect.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on United can you just help us think about whether there's anything new structurally with regard to how United manages their lab network and preventing leakage? Is there anything that you can say to what you've been able to do in the new contract terms? Well I think as we said in the announcement there are some performance-based incentives.
And so it would be reasonable to hypothesize the reduction of leakage as one of the things that could allow us to realize those performance-based incentives.
Otherwise structurally within that contract I don't think there's anything that's particularly different from what we've historically had.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last question here I just wanted to ask you obviously the U.S.
Preventive Services Task Force have been working on a number of changes to screening guidelines for cancer.
And I'm just wondering if you could give us some of your commentary about how you think that's going to impact your volumes looking out over the next year whether you think that's something that we should be seriously considering in terms of the growth rate of the company as providers react to that.
I do not think that it's going to be terribly impactful.
I think the controversy over PSA testing has been going on since time immemorial and will continue.
And I'd don't think the U.S.
Preventive Task Force recommendations are going to change a lot of physician or patient behavior.
On HPV going back to  2003 the U.S.
Preventive Task Force has never endorsed HPV which is a bit mystifying to me because there are studies upon studies upon studies that demonstrate the value of HPV particularly in conjunction with the Pap for diagnosis of cervical cancer.
But if you look at ASCCP and ACOG they strongly support HPV co-testing with Pap.
And there are 11 governing bodies that have positive recommendations for HPV testing with the U.S.
Preventive Task Force as the one that stands outside.
So I don't think we'll see a significant impact on volumes as a result of the U.S.
Preventive Task Force recommendations on either of those tests.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> With regards to the 6% impact that Genzyme had on revenue for acquisition in the quarter once the new pricing schedules are in place what should that go to? Does that go to 0? Could that go to negative? How should we think about that number? Gary this is Brad.
I think by the time those are all fully baked in we'll sort of have a year-over-year anniversary of Genzyme.
So I think it wouldn't be right to talk about it in terms of that particular number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well then maybe in that vein I guess what should the run rate be once it's sort of anniversaried? I mean obviously I think the MCO impact will have an impact on our year-over-year pricing growth but again not something that we haven't anticipated and wouldn't be baked into our thinking for any future period.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just back on the volumes.
You talked about overall volumes.
Could you talk maybe a little bit about share? Is your share stable? Are there areas that you're gaining or losing share by different test type? Gary it's Dave.
I think overall share is pretty stable.
I think -- gosh we've been talking about for many quarters our focus on some key markets: endocrinology rheumatology.
And I think we've had strong performance there.
Obviously the launch of our single-swab women's health test is going to help us in terms of retaining and growing share in that market.
So I don't think there's anything in particular that jumps out in share gain or share loss.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what's the competitive environment like on the anatomic pathology front? Is it still as strong from physician practices as it has been or has there been any change there? I think the volumes are stabilizing for us.
I think again we actually were slightly up in the third quarter year-over-year.
There is still in-sourcing going on there.
It hasn't abated.
But I would say the very large practices completed their in-sourcing some time ago and so probably the biggest volume impact is behind us.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions I wanted to -- I guess that haven't been hit.
One just kind of going back to revenue per session x Genzyme the 1.8.
I know you talked conceptually kind of pure price versus mix.
And I was following that discussion but can you actually numerically break that down? Are you willing to...
No.
Research Division</strong> What's your view? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay no.
I think historically you've said there's very little pure pricing in that number and that's the way we should think of it.
Is that still fairly accurate? That's true Gary.
Historically we've said it's 0 to 50 basis points of unit price and the rest is mix driven.
Research Division</strong> On the Clearstone acquisition what was the exact closing date on that? It was in June.
I don't remember the exact date.
We can go back and get that.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess that's okay.
We had it in our model in June and I know I think there was $29.6 million of net acquisition spend in the cash flow statement in June.
So that would have been only for Clearstone? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And can you tell us annual revenue on that? I don't think we've spoken about the annual revenue for Clearstone individually.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just going back to United just for a second what was the -- I mean can you give us a little color just kind of on the catalyst for the early renewal? I guess clearly it's in your interest to push out the contract and that should be well perceived by the market.
I guess clearly it's in their interest to lock-in some certainty around a component of their medical spend.
Is there anything else to the timing of this than that? Gary it's Dave.
I think you've identified a couple of big drivers.
One was our desire for continued certainty in the relationship and two was their desire to get 2 more years of visibility into what their spend would be at least with us.
Over the years with United we've talked about a number of potential opportunities including expansion of lab networks and redirection of leakage and some other things.
And yes I think there was a general view on both sides that this was an opportunity to give ourselves a couple of more years and be able to sort of put the focus on those strategic initiatives and make some investments.
And with 2 more years you're really looking at a 7-plus year time window to see those investments realized.
So I think it was a combination of all those factors.
Research Division</strong> And my last question just remind us your next sort of national HMO renewal is who and when? I think Humana is up at the end of 2012 so that we're already obviously in discussions about the renewal terms of that contract.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci with Lazard Capital Markets.
This is actually Andrea calling in for Tom.
I just had a quick follow-up on utilization.
Could you perhaps discuss a little bit what you're seeing thus far in October? And in the past you've discussed how the impact of high-deductible plans have shifted some of that seasonality to the back half.
Is that -- should we still expect that type of pickup in Q4? No.
We cannot discuss what we've seen so far in October.
I think it has been widely hypothesized and there's been some support in the numbers over the last couple of years that there have been pickups in fourth quarter utilization.
And the hypothesis has been that that's driven by high-deductible plans.
I don't know given this economic environment and the general utilization trend that we're seeing in healthcare services broadly whether we'll see that again this quarter or not.
And as a follow-up I recognize you haven't provided 2012 guidance yet but in the past you've discussed how improvement in Westcliff and Genzyme combined can represent a $0.40 swing into 2012.
Is this still your general expectation? Well as you said we haven't provided 2012 guidance and we'll do that on our fourth quarter call in February.
We have said that given the guidance on Genzyme being $0.16 to $0.26 dilutive this year and being neutral to slightly accretive next year that we should expect a positive swing there.
I'm not quite sure how you get   to $0.40 because I don't think Westcliff was that dilutive.
And remember we closed in May so we were allowed to integrate starting in May so we only have 5 months of dilution next year.
We should -- Westcliff should be profitable next year and so there should be a positive swing there.
But I'm not subscribing entirely to the number that you put out.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Ellich with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the managed care contracts and the United contract Dave in the press release you guys talked about economic incentives for helping with leakage and maybe shifting volume to lower-cost settings that is helping United on their lab cost.
Could you talk a little bit about that? I guess maybe what are those incentives? And do you have other contracts in place? Or do you see that going forward with any of your other managed care providers? Well I think everybody will move toward  the idea of performance-based incentives.
I think that's the nature of what everybody is seeing whether it's pay-for-performance pay-for-quality pay for lack of hospital readmissions.
I mean so I think performance-based incentives will probably be a component of all managed care contracts.
The performance metrics will undoubtedly be different for each one.
But I think we'll see that going forward.
And with United without talking about specific details of the contract obviously the biggest performance-based incentives are reducing overall spend.
So that would mean leakage reduction.
It would mean more volume in the network.
I mean those are the things that obviously would allow us to realize the performance-based initiatives.
Okay understood.
And then I guess just following up on that thinking about the pay-for-quality pay-for-performance.
One of the things you talked about last night at the conference was the future of lab testing and changes in the payment model with some demos going on bundling and accountable care organizations.
Could you give us your thoughts as to how the landscape is going to change for you? And I guess what do you think this will mean for the clinical lab business going forward? I think it's very early to know or to hypothesize.
I mean right now I think the general reception to the ACO guidelines has been rather chilly from providers because of: one the complexity; and two the perception that providers are being asked to assume a lot more risk than the government.
I think in the long run as I said last evening labs deliver for the dollar absolutely the highest value in the healthcare system.
Labs deliver for 2% to 3% of the spend and for 1.6% of the Medicare spend information that drives 70% to 80% of healthcare decisions.
So they're not going to be a healthcare system whether it's an ACO whether it's a bundled payment whether it's -- any system is going to be -- labs will be the linchpin of that system.
And I think the industry generally while we may see changes in the way that the payments are allocated and while we may see changes in the way that labs participate in these types of networks we're absolutely the most essential piece of healthcare services.
And I think LabCorp in general -- LabCorp in particular and the industry in general are very well positioned to respond.
And then just going back to kind of the competitive landscape and the M&amp;A environment we've seen some of the non-traditional players come in and there has been more discussion about the genetic benefit managers with Medco and Caremark.
Is there anything that you're thinking about doing in the future partnerships with any of them that we could talk about? Yes I think the new entrants into the market is not surprising to me.
And again as I have talked about I mean I think a lot of these are companies looking for new channels whether it's a channel to get in front of oncologists to sell drugs or a channel to get in front of pathologist to sell digital pathology or a channel to sell nutraceuticals.
I mean these are the kinds of acquisitions that are being made.
And I don't see these companies having a desire to get into a big lab services operation.
I see them looking at businesses that will give them a channel into places that they want to be and in particular physicians who they want to be in front.
I think in terms of benefit management we'd be naive if we didn't think that there's going to be some sort of benefit management over time as I said yesterday and talked about.
And I feel very strongly about this.
To me the fundamental here is decision support and helping physicians choose the right test for the right patient at the right time.
So I don't think of it as we're going to -- the industry is going to be in a position where health plans are going to be saying no to tests that patients should have.
I look at it as a position where health plans and payers are generally are going to be saying "Show me the objective facts that justify a patient getting a particular test " particularly for expensive tests.
I mean obviously there's a lot more concern about genetic testing and molecular testing that there is about CBCs and cholesterol testing but show me the objective facts that demonstrate that that patient should get the test and then show me how that's going to be integrated into the care the physician is delivering.
And I don't think there's anything that should be a great concern to responsible lab industry participants in that kind of thinking.
Your next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMC.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question around guidance for the fourth quarter.
If I look at the slides that you put out today it says that your actual for the 9 months was $4.80.
But if I add up the 3 quarters of what you reported that's $4.77.
So Brad can you maybe just help me think about how should we be looking at the fourth quarter as far as your guidance range goes? Well I have to go back and do the math on the $4.77 because we've certainly got in our tables to the press release and all our other numbers $4.80.
So I feel pretty good about that number without going back and looking at the previous reports.
So if you do the delta between the top end of the range and that $4.80 I mean you'd get a $1.53 fourth quarter to go to the bottom end of the range of $1.48 fourth quarter.
And as we look at the expectations for the fourth quarter we're comfortable across the entirety of that range.
So it all makes sense to us.
And again I'll go back and double check your $4.77 versus $4.80 but I'm fairly confident in the $4.80.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Again I just want to check if I look at the first quarter it was $1.52; second quarter $1.64; and third quarter $1.61.
I just didn't know if there was something in the reconciliation as you get to that 9 months that would differ from what you actually reported in the last 3 quarters.
I know it's only a couple of pennies but again it does have a swing factor in the fourth quarter depending on which number you're going with.
Your next question comes from the line Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First off on the sort of legislative side of things there's some I think a new building proposed regarding lab developed tests.
I just wondering how you're looking at the regulation of those types of products going forward and how that might impact your planning next year.
Could you repeat Isaac? I'm sorry but there's a lot of background noise.
Research Division</strong> [Technical difficulty] legislation out there for lab developed tests.
Just wondering how you're looking at that for next year and what your plans are for those types of products.
Well Dr.
Burgess introduced a bill in the House -- introduced a series of bills on FDA modernization one of which deals with lab developed tests.
And LabCorp and the American Clinical Laboratories Association are strongly supportive of that approach which we think is a reasonable and appropriate and prudent approach to regulation of lab developed testing.
In the meantime we continue to be engaged in discussions with FDA and other stakeholders about how lab developed testing will be regulated but we remain concerned that the approach that FDA has tentatively talked about and has discussed in some guidance is a really a wrong-headed approach and will actually lead to stifling innovation lack of development in clinical testing and ultimately detrimental to patient care.
So we support the Burgess legislation and will continue to hope and do our best to advance that through the House and the Senate.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a general question here in the guidance range which is obviously positive.
It seems the organic growth has decelerated a little bit throughout the year.
You're not really changing the dilution range for Genzyme.
So I guess if you had to just touch on the 2 or 3 primary points on what's gone better than the low end of the previous EPS range how would you characterize it? Yes.
I think we were ahead for the first half of the year.
That's definitely one thing that's going on.
And again as we forecast the fourth quarter those are the results that we see.
And the closer you get to the end of the year the narrower the range has to be so it's forcing the numbers to be what they are.
Research Division</strong> And should we assume that Genzyme is coming in at the maybe at the better end of the range? I mean $0.10 I think is kind of wide for -- with 1 quarter to go.
But just within that range how would you characterize it? I would characterize it as the guidance is intended to encompass a broad range of outcomes.
And it would be counterproductive to break down every individual component of the guidance.
So I don't think -- if we left the guidance at 617 people would say "You guys are not being realistic." And that would be true.
What we've done is try to make the guidance realistic given where we are and what we seen the quarter ahead.
Your next question comes from the line of Dane Leone with Macquarie.
I just want to -- just a point of clarity does the updated 2011 guidance include share repurchases in the fourth quarter? Dane it's Dave.
I think as Brad said in response to Amanda's question that the updated 2011 guidance includes everything.
So okay it assumes a completion of the outstanding $250 million in share repurchase authorization? No it does not.
It assumes that the share repurchase that we've done year-to-date is done and it assumes that we will likely repurchase some shares but it does not assume that we'll repurchase $250 million worth of shares in the quarter.
Again we've -- our year-to-date you can look at our year-to-date repurchase and see what the trend is and it would not contemplate $250 million of repurchase in one quarter.
Okay.
And under the scenario of continued adverse market conditions could there be an option to use some of the flexibility that you have on the balance sheet to augment the current share repurchase authorization? There's always the ability to use the balance sheet and use our ability to take on leverage to do a variety of things including acquisitions and share repurchase.
Okay great.
And then on -- following up on UNH contract is there any near-term pricing impact from that contract extension? What we've said is that pricing over the life of the contract remains stable and that we're very pleased where we've come out from a pricing perspective.
And that's all we're going to say about pricing.
Okay.
And then finally for me can you just provide some commentary like you do every quarter on the growth in your women's health business? Yes.
I mean I think the women's health business and particularly the OB/GYN market have continued to be positive for us.
Obviously Genzyme is helping in reproductive testing and it's helping with us getting into -- with LabCorp getting into accounts that Genzyme had served and with Genzyme getting into accounts that LabCorp had served.
I think the introduction of the single-swab test will give us a boost in being on a level playing field with some of the things that competitors have introduced.
So I think it's a good market for us and it's going to continue to grow.
Okay.
So there's been -- there was year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter growth on that business? I don't think we've broken that down specifically.
Your next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions here.
So first of all when I look at top line growth right? So third quarter top line growth was about 10% and then backing into fourth quarter implied top line growth is 4.5% to 6%.
So can you walk us just through the component of the sequential step down? There's around 360 to 450 basis points of decline.
I assume that Genzyme volumes account for part of it right because of the timing of the acquisition.
But is the remaining of it really kind of reflects the stepdown in Genzyme in maybe United pricing? Can you give us some color around that? Ricky this is Brad.
And you've got the numbers all correct.
I mean we will have only 2 months of incremental Genzyme so that is a component.
And then one other thing I think is a driver there as we think back to something that Dave went over earlier were the organic growth rates of the last 4 quarters.
Q4 last year was 3.
So I think it's a tough comp and the annualization of Genzyme is what we see in that analysis.
Research Division</strong> And any pricing impact from kind of like either United or Genzyme in that analysis that we should think of? Ricky it's Dave.
There's no pricing impact from United and the only pricing impact from Genzyme is again remember you're annualizing at the end of November so you're going to have one month in which you're not seeing the year-over-year price lift.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two other questions one on drugs of abuse market.
I mean is my math correct? Did it account for about the half of the organic volume growth in the quarter? I think it's less than half but it is a contributor.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is it around 5% of revenues for you still? Or less than that? No I'd say it's less than that.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly just touching on anatomic pathology.
I know you spoke about the acquisition but can you just share with us what you're seeing in terms of the in-sourcing trends for the business? Yes.
I think as we said previously the in-sourcing is continuing.
The big -- the in-sourcing of -- in the big practices has largely been completed.
So volume year-over-year was a little -- was up sequentially.
It was a little better.
But in-sourcing has not abated and it's going to continue in our view until there's a regulatory resolution.
Your next question comes from the line of A.J.
Rice with Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Two questions one sort of a detailed question.
To hit the fourth quarter and your full year cash flow targets I guess you're assuming that Q4 cash flow is obviously a nice pickup.
And you had talked about the fact that the Genzyme enrollment delays figuring you'll get that in the fourth quarter have you quantified how much is tied up with that? Yes we said $28 million early on the call.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And then maybe just another big-picture question here.
Obviously your biggest peer has talked about doing a big further cost-reduction program over the next 3 years.
I won't ask you to comment on that specifically.
But what they pointed to in thinking they could take some cost out of the system was that they had  felt like the industry may be overservicing the clients now that the client base doesn't demand everything that the industry is offering and that presents an opportunity for some cost savings.
I'd be interested to see whether you guys have any kind of view on that or looked at that at all and what your thoughts would be.
I've not heard that said and I'm not going to comment on what Quest is doing in terms of running their business.
I would say that we have stated for several years that we continue to invest in the business to improve the physician and patient experience.
Some of that improvement is by automating and doing things that do reduce costs.
But we continue to provide a high level of service and a high-quality service to physicians and patients.
And we're going to keep doing that and we're going to keep investing to make sure that we do that.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Vendetti with Maxim.
Research Division</strong> I just wonder if you can provide some of the growth in some of the general [ph] esoteric tests that sometimes you provide like HPV vitamin D or anything -- any one of those tests particularly strong this quarter? Well we continue to see good growth in HPV vitamin D some other -- testosterone some other tests that have been strong growers but we're not going to provide specific percentages or comparisons.
Research Division</strong> How about with Genzyme Genetics? Obviously that's an area that -- they're providing growth in some of those tests.
Is there any particular test that Genzyme Genetics has contributed that you look out as a stalwart or as one that's particularly been helpful for you? I think reproductive genetics in general has been a positive.
I think that we've seen -- we continue to see good growth in SMA testing.
But again across-the-board Genzyme has provided strength in reproductive testing.
We've seen nice growth in infectious disease with the IL28B and the hepatitis C test that we brought out.
We've already seen good adoption even though we released them in August of the companion diagnostics that we talked about earlier on the call.
So we're seeing nice pockets of growth across-the-board in the esoteric portfolio.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly on Genzyme Genetics is the integration largely complete? Is there anything that needs to be done on a cost basis or facility basis or anything else before the end of the year that's significant? The integration is not largely complete.
The integration is ongoing.
There are still some significant activities that are going to continue.
And that's why we have said that it'll be 2013 sometime during the year 2013 or exiting 2013 that we see the full completion of the Genzyme Genetics integration.
Your next question comes from the line Ashim Anand with Natixis.
Research Division</strong> What I wanted to comment on and know more about the progress you have made in personalized medicine especially companion diagnostics with Zelboraf and XALKORI.
And then monitoring on HCV protease inhibitors.
So obviously that protease inhibitor GenoSure is your own test so that must be exclusive.
But I wanted you to comment on is there exclusivity in terms of and BRAF and ALK also? No there's not exclusivity.
Obviously our view has been for some time that getting to market first is very important because of physician adoption and creation of physician loyalty.
So while these are not exclusive tests we are the first national lab to offer them and -- among the first 2 or 3 labs to offer them.
The others are much smaller niche labs if you will.
So we're very pleased with the position that we're in there.
Research Division</strong> In that regard if you can kind of comment on generally about marketing of these companion diagnostics like especially for example Zelboraf has done pretty good ramp-up considering it was just released.
So the marketing strategy is that someone from the lab goes to co-market let's say with Roche? Or Roche is essentially doing your job? And the same case with XALKORI and Pfizer if can you generally comment on that.
I think it's a combination of a variety of things.
I think there's -- we market the drug companies market.
There's co-marketing.
There's outreach through physician education through influential physician groups and thought leaders.
So there's a whole variety of ways in which those tests are introduced to the market.
Research Division</strong> And finally I know this is small component.
Along with HCV protease inhibitors but going forward in terms of just contribution to the esoteric you foresee this being a big component like especially in terms of your goal of increasing total revenue contribution to 45%.
Anything you can comment on that regard? I think companion diagnostics are going to continue to be -- we're going to continue to see an increasing number of them.
I think they're going to over time be significant contributors to esoteric growth.
It's not going to be next quarter.
It's not going to be next year.
But as we move toward new technologies in testing as we learn more about the genetics of disease companion diagnostics absolutely it will be a strong contributor to our growth and I think the growth of the industry in general.
Your last question comes from the line of Bill Bonello with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify your responses to a couple of questions because I was a bit confused.
First of all Amanda asked if organic growth included tuck-in  acquisitions.
And Dave you gave the answer that you used to always give about -- that it does and hard to break those out.
But last quarter when I asked the question about whether organic growth included tuck-ins your response was "The approximately 2% organic growth is truly organic so it's everything.
It's all acquisitions backed out." So if we think about the approximately 2% organic growth of last quarter and the 1.2% of this quarter am I correct that that's not really an apples-to-apples trend? Bill no.
It is an apples-to-apples trend.
It's the exact same comparison.
So if we said that last quarter then that was erroneous because this is the same comparison quarter-over-quarter year-over-year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Brad answered a question that somebody had asked on the price per session thinking about it on a normalized basis going forward.
I thought you said something about MCO is having a negative impact on revenue per session growth but I didn't exactly hear what you were saying.
So am I right that you were saying there's going to be some kind of exit impact on revenue per session growth for managed care? Or did I mishear that? You misheard that.
Maybe if I'm to the right place on the call it was the impact of drugs of abuse testing on our revenue per requisition growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so that's had a negative impact right I would assume? The growth in drugs of abuse? Yes so it's helped volume and compressed price for a very minor impact on total revenue.
LLC Research Division</strong> So as we think about normalized revenue per session growth you're not saying to think about anything different on the price front than we normally think? That's right.
This concludes the question-and-answer session for today.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
David King for closing remarks.
Thank you very much for joining us this morning on our third quarter earnings call and we hope you have a good day.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 Laboratory Corp.
of America Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jeff and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
David King Chairman and CEO of LabCorp.
And you have the floor sir.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning and welcome to LabCorp's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Conference Call.
Joining me today from LabCorp are Brad Hayes Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Ed Dodson Senior Vice President of Chief Accounting Officer; and Steve Anderson Vice President Investor Relations.
This morning we will discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2011 financial results provide 2012 guidance update you on our Genzyme Genetics  integration highlight our progress on our 5-pillar strategy and provide answers to several frequently asked questions.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Steve Anderson who has a few comments before we begin Before we get started I would like to point out that there will be a replay of this conference call available via the telephone and Internet.
Please refer to today's press release for replay information.
This morning the company filed a Form 8-K that included additional information on our business and operations.
This information is also available on our website.
Analysts and investors are directed to this 8-K and our website to review this supplemental information.
Additionally we refer you to today's press release which is available on our website for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call to GAAP.
These non-GAAP measures include adjusted EPS excluding amortization free cash flow and adjusted operating income.
I would also like to point out that we are making forward-looking statements during this conference call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results the implementation of our business strategy and the ongoing benefits of the Genzyme Genetics and other acquisitions.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect the company's financial results.
Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our 2010 10-K and subsequent filings.
The company has no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now Brad Hayes will review our financial results.
Thank you Steve.
On today's call I will review 4 key measures of our financial performance: cash flow revenue growth margin and liquidity.
I'll also review our 2012 guidance.
First cash flow.
Our cash flow remains strong.
Excluding the Hunter Lab settlement of $49.5 million free cash flow for the year ended December 31 2011 was $759.4 million.
Cash flow has been negatively impacted by approximately $17 million due to delays in the Genzyme Genetics enrollment process which we expected and have previously discussed.
The impact from these delays has improved by $11 million since the third quarter of 2011 and we expect to continue to make progress in resolving these issues.
We remain pleased with our cash collections.
DSO was 46 days at the end of December unchanged year-over-year and sequentially.
Our bad debt remained 4.5%.
Second revenue growth.
Revenue increased 5.5% year-over-year in the fourth quarter.
Genzyme Genetics accounted for approximately 4.8% of this growth.
During the quarter revenue per requisition increased 4.2% year-over-year.
Genzyme Genetics accounted for approximately 4.1% of the growth in revenue per requisition.
Total company volume increased 1.2% year-over-year during the fourth quarter.
Genzyme Genetics accounted for approximately 0.6% of this volume growth.
Esoteric volume increased approximately 3.5% in the quarter.
Third margin.
For the fourth quarter our adjusted operating income margin was 18.9% compared to 19.5% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Year-over-year margin decline was due entirely to recent acquisitions that we have not fully integrated.
Excluding these acquisitions margins would have remained stable year-over-year.
Margins will improve as we integrate these businesses and our guidance for next year implies margin expansion.
Fourth liquidity.
We remain well-capitalized.
At the end of December we had cash of $159.3 million and approximately $400 million available under our revolving line of credit.
During the fourth quarter we replaced existing credit facilities with a new $1 billion revolver.
We borrowed $560 million under the new facility and repaid all amounts outstanding under our previous term loan and revolving credit facility.
In addition to the cash generated by operations we believe the new $1 billion revolver will provide us with ready liquidity to carry out strategic initiatives.
At the end December total debt was $2.2 billion.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased $172.1 million of stock representing 2.1 million shares.
At the end of December $84.4 million of repurchase authorization remained under our previously approved share repurchase program.
This morning we announced that LabCorp's Board of Directors authorized a new $500 million share repurchase program.
This authorization reflects our continued commitment to return capital to and create value for our shareholders.
This morning we also announced our 2012 financial guidance.
We expect revenue growth of 2% to 3.5%; adjusted EPS excluding amortization in the range of $6.75 to $7.05 excluding the impact of any share repurchase activity after December 31 2011; operating cash flow of approximately $950 million; and capital expenditures of approximately $155 million.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Brad.
We are very pleased with our fourth quarter and 2011 results.
Before discussing progress on our 5-pillar strategy I would like to update you on Genzyme Genetics.
The integration of Genzyme Genetics continues to go extremely well and we are very pleased with our retention of Genzyme's clients as well as our realization of cost savings.
The continuing success of the integration will remain a top priority for us throughout 2012 and we remain confident that Genzyme Genetics will be slightly accretive to earnings this year.
In January 2012 as our right to use the Genzyme Genetics name ended we began rebranding Genzyme Genetics as part of a broader rebranding of LabCorp's specialty testing capabilities to create a consistent market-facing structure.
To this end we adopted the name Integrated Genetics for the reproductive portion of Genzyme's business and LabCorp's Legacy Genetics business.
We adopted the name Integrated Oncology for Genzyme's Oncology business and LabCorp's Legacy Oncology businesses.
This rebranding effort is an important company-wide initiative that will further the second pillar of our strategy and that it will simplify and enhance the physician experience in dealing with LabCorp's many specialty businesses and assets.
Response to the branding has been positive and we look forward to continuing to streamline and focus our brands.
Now I'd like to update you on the progress on each aspect of our 5-pillar strategy.
The first pillar of our strategy is that we deploy our cash to enhance our footprint and test menu through acquisitions and to repurchase shares.
In December we closed our acquisition of Orchid Cellmark an international provider of DNA testing services primarily for forensic and family relationship applications.
This acquisition strengthens LabCorp's capabilities in forensics and identity testing and establishes our presence in the United Kingdom.
With respect to the U.S.
portion of Orchid's business we are pleased to add to our strong forensics and private paternity business.
As we disclosed we were required to divest certain assets of the government paternity business upon closing the transaction.
With respect to the U.K.
portion of Orchid's business known as Cellmark we are pleased to expand our Forensics business to a new market.
As many of you know the U.K.
government has decided to close its forensic crime testing operations.
Thus Cellmark has a solid market opportunity in the U.K.
and will also enable us to evaluate the opportunity to extend our forensics business into Europe.
The integration of Orchid is going well and we expect the transaction to be slightly accretive to our 2012 earnings.
We welcome the talented employees of Orchid both here and abroad to our LabCorp family.
Finally we repurchased approximately $644 million of our shares in 2011.
The second pillar of our strategy is to enhance our IT capabilities to improve the physician and patient experience.
Last year we introduced Beacon Order Entry nationally which allows our customers to place electronic orders for almost all LabCorp brands and services.
With the previously released Beacon results delivery capability customers can now place orders and receive results through a simple customer-friendly portal.
We have seen strong growth in adoption of Beacon in 2011 making it our fastest-growing external software offering ever.
With Apple and Android  versions we have also brought Beacon capabilities to our growing mobile user base.
Additionally we completed development of the Beacon patient portal.
The portal is a secure and easy-to-use online solution that enables patients to receive and share lab results make appointments pay bills set up automatic alerts and notifications and manage health information for the entire family.
We currently have an active pilot program and we plan to launch the portal nationwide later this year.
We continue to improve our electronic medical record connectivity.
LabCorp connects to more than 500 EMRs working closely with leading EMR partners to streamline connectivity and enhance lab workflow assisting clients in seamlessly integrating lab services into their EMR solutions.
We added over 6 000 new client EMR interfaces in 2011.
We continue to pursue our differentiated open platform strategy allowing our customers to connect to LabCorp directly or via their EMR of choice.
We made a conscious decision to pursue this open platform approach because it is what our customers want.
Going forward we will continue to enhance our Beacon platform by providing more and better patient and physician-facing IT solutions.
The third pillar of our strategy is to continue to improve efficiency to offer the most compelling value in laboratory services.
In the fourth quarter we continued our Touch AccuDraw system implementation to an additional 76 sites.
The system is now deployed in more than 1 100 sites across the country and is processing over 1 million accessions per month.
We continue to enhance the system that allows our phlebotomists a critical link in our sample flow to improve accuracy workflow and processing time to enhance the patient experience in our patient service centers.
In December we opened a 110 000-square-foot expansion to our Burlington lab campus.
This state-of-the-art facility will provide an improved work environment for our employees and will allow us to consolidate satellite locations and enhance specimen flow.
Additionally it provides significant capacity for future growth.
The fourth pillar of our strategy is to continue scientific innovation at reasonable and appropriate pricing.
We introduced 104 new tests in 2011.
I would highlight 2 key companion diagnostics that we brought to market in the fourth quarter because they demonstrate our continued leadership in personalized medicine.
The first was a new FDA-approved companion diagnostic for use in patients with advanced ALK positive non-small cell lung cancer.
The Vysis ALK Break Apart FISH Probe test detects all ALK gene rearrangements and is the only available diagnostic assay that has been clinically validated to predict response to the targeted therapy XALKORI.
The second is an FDA-approved diagnostic for melanoma patients who have inoperable or metastatic melanoma.
The test determines the presence of the BRAF V600E gene mutation within the tumor sample and identifies patients eligible for treatment with Zelboraf.
Last month we added to our ovarian cancer management tools with a new FDA-cleared assay ROMA or Risk of Ovarian Malignancy Algorithm.
This is a risk stratification tool that combines the results for HE4 ARCHITECT CA 125 and menopausal status into a numerical score that along with clinical and radiological evaluation can aid in evaluating whether a woman over the age of 18 who presents with an ovarian mass and for whom surgery is planned is at a high or low likelihood of having a malignancy.
ROMA provides equal sensitivity to other commercially available risk stratification tools with improved specificity for determining the risk level of malignancy.
LabCorp continues to be a leader in the field of chromosomal microarray analysis.
In addition to our pediatric prenatal and conception test offerings we recently added oncology applications.
The LabCorp SNP microarray has been shown to be superior to traditional technologies for the detection of genetic alterations having greatly improved the copy number resolution and the capacity to detect clinically significant gene conversion associated with pediatric syndromes and clonal  evaluation in cancer.
The fifth pillar of our strategy is to develop alternative delivery models.
The Director of the CBO recently pointed out that the results of recent Medicare demonstration projects on disease management and value-based payment "suggest that substantial payment -- substantial changes to payment and delivery systems will probably be necessary for such programs to significantly reduce spending and either maintain or improve the quality of care provided to patients." We are preparing ourselves for these changes.
We continue to discuss alternative models with physicians and our managed care partners so that we will be well positioned in the future.
As we mentioned last quarter the recent extension of the UnitedHealthcare contract was an important step in our fifth pillar as we will continue to be the sole national laboratory for UnitedHealthcare through the end of 2018.
Over the next 7 years both organizations will continue to make investments to help reduce health care costs and improve patient care.
In summary we are very pleased with our fourth quarter and full year performance and the progress we have achieved on our strategic initiatives.
Although current macroeconomic conditions cause our outlook for volume growth in 2012 to remain muted we believe that the long-term outlook for our industry is excellent and that over time volume growth will return to historical levels.
Now Steve Anderson will review anticipated questions and our specific answers to those questions Thank you Dave.
Can you describe the potential impact for Medicare reform?  As we all know the Super Committee failed to reach agreement on a $1.5 trillion deficit reduction plan over 10 years.
Absent any Congressional activity mandatory sequestration including a 2% reduction in the Medicare fee schedule will be implemented effective January 1 2013.
Congress must also address scheduled reductions to the Medicare physician fee schedule sustainable growth rate by March of this year.
There are numerous proposals circulating to address these issues.
It is too early for us to predict the impact of any potential reforms.
We believe that across-the-board reductions to reimbursement cost-sharing proposals and arbitrary exclusion of services are bad policy.
Such proposals will increase administrative costs to providers deter patients from seeking early and appropriate care and ultimately increase the cost of health care.
We are working closely with the American Clinical Laboratory Association and members of Congress to explain our position on these matters and will continue to press for responsible reforms and appropriate reimbursement for our services.
Can you update us on the mix of your business coming from esoteric testing? In the fourth quarter approximately 40% of our revenues were in the genomic esoteric and anatomic pathology categories.
As we reiterated last quarter our new goal is to increase our esoteric test mix to approximately 45% of our revenue within the next 3 to 5 years.
Can you remind us of how drugs of abuse volume trended during the year? In the fourth quarter our drugs of abuse volume increased approximately 10% year-over-year.
That compares to a year-over-year increase of 9% in Q3 of 2011; 8% in Q2 of 2011; 14% in Q1 of 2011; and 12% in Q4 of 2010.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave Thank you Steve.
Thank you very much for listening.
Before we take questions I would like to note that we now have 25 analysts covering our company.
So that we may do our best to accommodate everyone please make your questions brief and to the point and we will endeavor to answer them in the same fashion.
We are now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Adam Feinstein with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> So I guess just maybe a question would just be as you think about 2012 and you talked about the 5 pillars.
But how are you thinking about 2012 relative to last year? What are the big themes? I mean clearly you guys are always just see yourself as an operating company and doing the blocking and tackling and following the same strategy.
But just curious as your messaging around 2012 and what are you thinking about just kind of big picture for LabCorp and the industry? Adam it's Dave.
The beginning of your question cut off a little bit.
So I'm just going to -- I think what you asked is kind of high-level themes for 2012 and beyond? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
So again I would repeat that first message is we think that the volume outlook is muted for 2012 because of broad macroeconomic conditions but still the long-term outlook is excellent.
And over time we believe that we'll return to the historical volume growth rates that we've seen in the industry.
So that probably one high-level theme.
Second the importance of continuing the Genzyme Genetics integration and I would say that has 2 components.
The first is growing that business.
So we spent a lot of effort this year protecting the client base making sure that the levels of service remained at expectations particularly placing value on the genetic counselor network and the importance of that to the clients and to the business.
So growing Genzyme Genetics is a very important priority for all the reasons that we've articulated: the genetics franchise the oncology franchise the importance of reproductive and oncology testing to our business model of the future.
On the other side of that of course is continuing to rationalize the cost structure in that business which will allow us to as we've said make it slightly accretive in 2012 and then as we move through 2013 and beyond get it to company margins and really start to see the earnings power of that business.
So both growth and cost rationalization there are going to be extremely important.
Third I would say is continuing to develop and enhance the focus on our specialty businesses.
So we haven't talked a lot about this but underneath all of the Genzyme acquisition and the rebranding is a I would say some changes to the structure of the way that we go to market with our specialty businesses and the way that we message the market the way we interact with physicians.
And think all of those things the growth in the future the core business is very important and fundamental to what we do.
But growth in the future is increasingly going to come from specialty and esoteric testing.
And so I think continuing to enhance our market-facing capabilities there is going to be very important in 2012.
And then the fourth thing is allocation of capital.
So we continue to look for attractive acquisitions we continue to buy shares we continue to consider all other aspects of capital allocation.
And I think those are -- that's going to be an important priority.
And then I would say last of all I think that we're going to start to see an acceleration of payers looking at different kinds of models.
And so I think continuing to invest resources in and collaborate with payers on what other ways are lab services of this care generally going to be delivered will be an important priority for us in 2012.
And congruent with that continuing to improve our own internal efficiencies so that we can be best positioned in the marketplace.
So I know that was a lot and I failed in responding to your question in a brief and concise fashion but I hope it was helpful.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Bonello with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So my question has to do with pricing and mix.
It looks like excluding Genzyme revenue per requisition was essentially flat.
I don't think I recall that ever happening in the past even in 2007 after the big United contract implementation.
Can you give us some color on what's happening on that front? Are you seeing less mix shift? Are you losing some of the esoteric testing? Is price coming down? How should we be thinking about that? And then I have one quick follow-up to that.
Bill this is Brad and I think about that metric from 3 different ways.
First of all year-over-year growth is important but we also look at what those revenue per requisitions are doing sequentially.
And they were sequentially up in Q4 compared to Q3.
And especially across payers across testing managed care was up sequentially.
And so that's the first thing we do when we're looking at that is say what happens sequentially? Second on a year-over-year basis we took 2 looks one was by payer and the other was by test to your specific point.
By payer our client category is experiencing the fastest volume growth and our client category has the lowest revenue per requisition.
An example of a business that's growing in our client category that Steve Anderson mentioned is our Drugs of Abuse Testing business.
So as we see volume growth accelerate above the average in those businesses it's putting some pressure on the overall price metric.
The second is in our patient in our uninsured population.
That volume is our highest priced in terms of revenue per requisition.
That volume year-to-date in 2011 was 6.5% lower than 2010.
And in the fourth quarter 8.7% lower than 2010 in the fourth quarter.
So we're seeing some acceleration of low-paying or lower-price-point payer categories and also some deceleration in higher price point categories.
On the test mix side we're also seeing the flattening of Vitamin D and also flattening in our Histology business.
So that is also putting pressure on the overall metric.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's extremely helpful.
And then just as a follow-up to that can you kind of help us feel confident then in your ability to reach the 2% to 3.5% revenue growth in 2012? I mean all in I think you were less than 1% this quarter.
I know you were facing extremely hard comps on the volume side but just kind of tell us what gives you confidence how we should think about that? Yes Bill it's Dave.
So first of all not to be overlooked I mean we're going to get about 1 percentage point of growth from Orchid the full year impact.
So that gets us a reasonable head start toward the number that we put out there.
We did have a very difficult volume comp in 4Q of this year versus 4Q of last year.
As we went and looked back at 4Q of last year it was the single largest organic growth quarter in at least the prior 8 quarters.
So we're just going up against a tough comp here which makes the volume growth look less than it was.
And I think with what we're hearing in the commentary from the payer community from WellPoint on their call from United on their call they are expecting utilization improvement particularly in the second half of 2012.
So we feel pretty good that all those things in combination will comfortably get us into the revenue guidance range that we've given you.
And obviously if -- again as I've said we have a pretty muted expectation in terms of volume for 2012.
But if volume is better it gives us additional opportunity.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Dave and Brad just can you give us a quick update on the attack plan for Orchid in terms of how the consolidation will proceed? And maybe an update on the U.K.
is that FSS business getting any closer to you? And then just quickly for Brad the $0.51 hit from amortization expense in 2011 do you have a guess what that would be for 2012? It's Dave and I'll start with the Orchid question.
So as we said we divested the state government paternity business or we're in the process of divesting it as part of the resolution of the FTC inquiry.
With respect to the private business I think our current plan is that most of that -- most of our existing forensics business will actually move into the existing Orchid facilities.
So what we're doing at our Center for Molecular Biology and Pathology I think we'll be moving toward their facilities.
And there'll be some -- I'm sure there'll be some rationalization but I think generally the businesses are very complementary and give us a nice growth opportunity in private paternity.
In terms of the U.K.
business my understanding is that most of the tenders have been resolved and have essentially a 2-year time frame.
So there is some -- there are still I believe a couple that are waiting to be decided.
There's a nice market opportunity as those come up.
We've been successful in winning those tenders.
The government has closed their private -- sorry their government forensics lab.
So there's basically -- it's basically open to private competition.
So we do see some growth opportunity there as the tenders are decided and then as they come up for rebid.
And then also the potential of looking at being able to expand the forensics business outside the U.K.
into Europe.
No firm plans there but a good beachhead in the U.K.
as we consider that expansion opportunity.
And now I'll turn it over to Brad on the amortization.
And Bob on the amortization it looks to be roughly the same.
Our next question comes from the line of Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe just to follow-up on some of your pricing comments.
You had made comments regarding the transition of some of the Genzyme contracts onto some of the legacy LabCorp contracts and at some point that would put pressure on the pricing.
Did you see some of that in the fourth quarter and if so how much was in there? Gary this is Brad.
We have -- we did not see any change in the fourth quarter compared to what we had been experiencing throughout 2011.
LLC Research Division</strong> So how far along in that process are you? And how much additional pricing pressure if any would you expect to see from that transition? We're pretty well along given that we're over a year now from the actual acquisition so we're pretty far along in that process.
There still are some transitions that are scheduled to occur in 2012.
But it's definitely baked into our guidance and our thinking for 2012.
Gary it's David.
We'll obviously reflect in the price metric.
As you look at 2012 on a year-over-year comparison because to the extent that we have further adjustments into our contract levels that'll show up as "negative price." LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it sound like there's not that much more of that is that what I'm hearing? I think that's fair to say.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you just give us an update on where you are on the Horizon contract? We don't really have an update on the Horizon contract.
We continue to discuss a longer-term extension with Horizon but no final resolution.
Our next question comes from the line of Amanda Murphy with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I actually had a follow-up on the volume questions that have been asked.
I'm curious if you look at the underlying business what are you guys seeing in terms of seasonality? So typically Q4 was the worst given holiday seasons.
But I'm curious if the whole deductible factor has meaningfully changed that pattern over the past couple of years.
Amanda it's Dave.
I think that it does have an impact.
I mean obviously we're dealing with pretty sizable volumes.
So it's hard to point to particular facts and figures.
But I think it does have an impact.
I think if you look at the historic trends for 4Q and you look at what's happened the last 3 years really you do see more -- you don't see a pickup but you see more stability between 3Q and 4Q than we've seen in the past.
So I think it has some impact.
It'd be hard to quantify.
Research Division</strong> We should just expect a similar progression through 2012 as we saw last year basically.
Yes.
I would agree with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question on Genzyme so you talked to the branding.
I'm curious how meaningful is the Genzyme brand to the business? So it is something that could impact the underlying Genzyme attrition rate which seems to have done better but just curious about 2012.
I think the Genzyme Genetics brand is a valuable brand make no mistake.
Pursuant to the asset purchase agreement we had a certain time in which we were allowed to use the brand and then the name Genzyme now belongs to somebody else.
So the name that we adopted Integrated Genetics is actually a legacy brand that was part of Genzyme Genetics and that Genzyme Genetics acquired.
So it's familiar to the customers it's something that they know.
There's strong brand recognition within the Genzyme Genetics Reproductive business.
So I actually think that the Genzyme organization has welcomed the brand in that it really completes the separation from Genzyme and is now part of the LabCorp family.
And Integrated Oncology just seemed like a good consistent market-facing brand to adopt once we went with the Integrated Genetics brand.
So I think that -- don't mean to in any way underestimate the value of the Genzyme Genetics brand but I think we've made a very smooth transition here.
Our next question comes from the line of Ralph Giacobbe with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In the past I think you've talked about sort of needing 4% top line to sort of have leverage to increase margins.
So I guess maybe help us understand where the cost savings is being generated in 2012 to sort of allow you to expand the margins at a fairly decent clip despite some of the lower top line expectations.
I think the place where the cost savings are coming are within the Genzyme business within Orchid within the remnants of Westcliff and DCL.
So the integration of the acquisitions is a key line of cost savings as well as Clearstone the Clearstone acquisition in clinical trials.
And then the continuation of all of the efficiency programs that we have been working on; so lab automation patient service center automation improvements in the throughput of instrumentation.
Those are probably the 2 big categories of cost improvement.
Research Division</strong> And so it's largely all sort of SG&amp;A related if we think about sort of the model on where we would see the greatest opportunity? You'll see some in SG&amp;A but I think you'll also see some in the gross profit line because that's where the efficiency programs and facility rationalizations and those types of activities will show up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my follow-up any -- remind us again the large contracts that are coming up for renewal in 2012 aside from Horizon that you already talked about.
I don't think we have anything sizable in 2012.
We go out to 2013 with Cigna and WellPoint.
Our next question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So my question is really just about volume.
I guess I hear you you're not making any call on the economy or any real big improvement for 2012.
So we get that part of the guidance.
I guess what I want to just focus on is the deceleration that we did see throughout 2012.
And I'd be curious just to get your comments on where you saw the weakness whether you think there's anything new competitively that's emerged in your markets that's led to some of this organic weakness in recent quarters or you just chalk it up to a tough comp.
Maybe just some framework for thinking about the trend.
Yes Darren it's Brad.
I would say that definitely you touched on something that we've said earlier and want to continue to stress is the tough comp especially in Q4.
I think looking back across the year the deceleration I would say was around in the summer months.
And then we saw a stability in the fourth quarter compared to that deceleration at least in terms of absolute levels of volumes setting aside the year-over-year comp.
Again back to the tough comp for Q4.
So that's the way we think about what happened in 2011.
And again 2012 will be up to the macro environment as well as what things that we can do internally to offset and outpace that.
Yes.
Darren it's Dave.
Just to add to that I mean again when we came out of 2011 Q4 was very strong and Q1 of 2012 also started out strong.
Then as everybody knows we saw a deterioration in the macro environment.
We saw I mean for those who have forgotten we saw real complete political gridlock for months over Medicare over the SGR fix over the debt ceiling.
And all of those things I think played into the macro environment which in turn played into people's confidence in going out and spending discretionary dollars on health care.
So Q3 was the low point.
I think Q4 was a strong volume quarter for us given the comp and we feel that that is sustainable going forward.
But we're waiting on the economy to improve for us to feel like we can be more confident in our expectations about volume.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just to clarify in revenue guidance for '12.
Have you contemplated any kind of impact from molecular diagnostic coding changes? Any just comments there would be helpful.
No we have not.
Our understanding on the coding changes is that in terms of Medicare the coding changes are -- whatever they turn out to be are not going to be implemented in 2012.
And the earliest of those will be implemented is 2013.
And I think in terms of the private payer community our sense is that although they may implement some of the coding it doesn't lead to structural pricing changes.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci with Lazard Capital Management.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe sort of following on one of Darren's questions there.
As we think about '12 then I know you don't give quarterly guidance but just maybe from a high level.
It seems like a fair amount of the earnings growth is sort of coming from the ramp up of acquisitions or synergies related to the acquisitions and inverse to '11 this seemed like that the volume comps get a little easier as the year goes on.
So can you give us any sort of high-level thoughts about first half versus second half? Or stronger- and weaker-type quarters given those dynamics? No.
I mean so we don't give quarterly guidance.
I don't think it would be reasonable to try to give you anything more than at a very high level.
Yes the comps will get easier in the third and fourth quarters so that will help volume.
The integration synergies from Clearstone and Orchid there'll be more probably at the beginning of the year but Genzyme will be relatively stable throughout the year.
So I think the earnings pattern is likely to follow the historical pattern is really about what we can say there.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
That's helpful.
And then one follow-up on sort of the competitive environment and pure pricing was curious what your perspective is there.
And also Dave was wondering if you could follow up on a comment that you made earlier in '12 maybe seeing payers toy with some new types of payer-type models.
Wondering what type of things you may be thinking about.
Sure.
I think in terms of the competitive environment generally it's what it's always been which is it's quite tough.
And that's the nature of our industry.
It's a very competitive industry there a lot of players.
So there's competition on -- for volume there's competition on service levels there's competition on price and there's competition from our customers as we know in Histology with the in-sourcing.
And I don't think we see that changing much.
In terms of the alternative models Tom I mean I guess what I would say is if you look at just even within the last week or 2 WellPoint is talking about paying physicians in different ways.
United came out with a pretty comprehensive announcement that they were going to look at whole different methodologies to start paying physicians and they called it transforming the way they pay their provider network in their statement.
So if we think that physicians are the only ones who are going to be affected by this I think we're helping ourselves to a healthy dose of rose-colored glasses.
There's clearly going to be different ways in which lab services are going to be paid for whether it's bundled payments whether it's payments based on quality of services delivered whether it's narrowing of networks.
I think all of those things are going to come into play.
And I think we're very well positioned to participate in that.
And I think in the long term it will be a benefit to LabCorp.
But I don't think we should underestimate the fact that the payment models are going to be changing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I sneak one more in? What was the ultimate Genzyme dilution for '11? Yes.
We're not going to talk about that.
We gave you the guidance and I think that's what we're going to stand on.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple questions.
First I've been listening I don't think you've kind of parsed this out.
But for 2012 I heard your comments on expectations for margin improvement from improved integration of the acquired assets.
Is the implied organic revenue growth that you're anticipating is that at a level that's going to allow you to maintain organic margins? Or would you expect improvement? Would you expect them down slightly? Do you have a general view around that? Gary this is Brad.
I think without the help of some of the efficiency programs that we've talked about before organic volume at the low end would make it challenging on margins.
But again we have the help of the acquisition integrations in 2012.
And as Dave has said several times on the call we expect growth to accelerate from where we're seeing growth now.
So I think looking out into the future there are margin expansion opportunities for us.
Yes.
And I just -- I think we stand by that it takes in the range of 4% top line growth to generate real organic margin expansion.
And so if we're not -- so we're going to get margin expansion next year from what we're doing with the acquisitions and from the efficiencies and we've always got to be making our business more efficient.
That's just fundamental.
But as in our perspective as volume improves over time we'll see a return to organic margin expansion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes I appreciate that.
I just wanted to drill into '12 specifically a little more detail.
My last question and I apologize I'm not exactly sure how to ask this.
But I was reading about a new initiative that the company has to create kind of esoteric test benefit managers so to speak and kind of build a network of other esoteric labs and present this management potentially in a capitated model to payers.
And I've forgotten the name of that venture.
But is that something that you're willing to talk a little bit about at this point or is it too early? At a high level what -- we-call it Beacon LBS.
And at a high level Beacon LBS is a multifaceted offering for both physicians and health plans that has a very simple goal.
And the simple goal is to get patients the right tests from the highest quality laboratories at the most effective cost.
So there is an option to have narrower lab networks for some esoteric services.
There is an option to have physician-decision support in test selection and in guiding care pathways.
But the goal is to -- and there's a lot of these models out there as you know being offered by others who are not labs and therefore don't have the expertise to provide these services.
But the goal is again right test for the right patient from the highest quality laboratory network at the most effective cost.
And this is something that again is part of how are we going to look at payment for lab services and how lab services are provided over time.
And we think it's very important that we not only participate but lead in initiatives in this area.
The next question comes from the line of Sandy Draper with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked and answered so I appreciate it.
Maybe one follow-up on Genzyme.
I appreciate you not specifically calling out where the dilution came in in 2011.
So you may not be willing to give a target accretion for '12.
But if you're not going to do that maybe one of the things you're talking about is the incremental growth or benefit in '13.
Maybe just remind me of some of the things of why you think '13 you actually see more of a step-up in terms of the accretion and the growth there as opposed to '12? Yes.
So we're not going to give target accretion numbers for any of the businesses because as we've always said the guidance -- we'll give you a range of guidance because there's a range of outcomes within the guidance.
And the minute we start giving individual targets then we start breaking the guidance down into pennies and nickels and frankly with a company that's talking about earnings power of $7 a share it just doesn't make sense to go through it and try to tell you penny by penny how we get to where we get.
So what I would say about Genzyme is that it'll be slightly accretive next year as we've said.
I think in 2013 one we'll realize the full impact of the synergies which will significantly help in terms of the margin; two a lot of the investments that we've been making in the IT for example when we acquired Genzyme there was no electronic order and result delivery capability in that business.
They just didn't have it.
If you think about it they've done a terrific job growing the business without one of the most fundamental basics which is allowing physicians to order electronically and get their results delivered electronically.
So the investments in the business the investments in the sales force the investments in the branding and all of the things that that will allow physicians to do in terms of ordering other specialty test in the LabCorp core menu from a single order entry and result delivery portal all these things I think are going to lead to strong top line growth as we get through 2012 and 2013 and the improvement on the expense side will lead to real earnings power as we get in the out-years.
Our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just had a follow-up question around Genzyme.
Am I looking at the numbers correctly? I'm just trying to understand what the organic growth and recs were for Genzyme in the fourth quarter? Either Brad or Dave could you help us to understand that? And then my second question Dave would just be do you have any update at all around the Congressional hearings or Congressional inquiry that you've submitted documents to in December? Lisa this is Brad.
I'll start with the organic growth rate.
So we reported volume up 1.2% with Genzyme attributing 0.6% of that.
So if we go to that organic number it's 0.6%.
Research Division</strong> And so that's organic.
Because last year in the fourth quarter didn't you have some level of Genzyme in the fourth quarter as well? We did.
So it's apples-to-apples.
So when we backed it out of the fourth quarter last year even backing out Genzyme we were at 3.2%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But when we look at our numbers it looks like that has slowed and has slowed sequentially is that the right way to look at it? And if that's the case is there something behind that slowing growth rate? I think we got 2 things confused here.
We don't break out the Genzyme volume specifically.
So I don't know if you're trying to back into that from the numbers that we've given you for Genzyme's contribution to our overall volume growth but....
Research Division</strong> Right.
That is what we're trying to do.
And you're saying that it's not possible to do that based on the information you give us? Well I'm just saying remember that in the fourth quarter of 2012 we had 3 months of Genzyme and in the fourth quarter of 2011 we had 1 month of Genzyme.
So you're not -- you don't have a...
Research Division</strong> Apples to apples.
Exact comparison and that's probably why you're seeing something that we're not seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right that's helpful.
And then Dave do you have any update on -- have you heard anything further from this Congressional inquiry? All I would say on that is that we continue to believe that this is based on the allegations of the Q10 that was filed the NPT case.
We are working cooperatively with the Senate Finance Committee staff to respond to their questions.
And obviously we'll update you as matters progress.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Ellich with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Dave just thinking about what Palmetto's going to do with the McKesson's Z-code.
I'm just curious what your take is on the whole matter and how big of a deal you think this is for LabCorp and how prepared you are for the changes? Well so first of all let me reiterate that we are strong supporters of transparency in billing and coding and always have been.
So I think anything that creates better transparency for payers in billing and coding is a good thing.
I think Kevin that Palmetto is in the process of reevaluating their program.
My understanding is they've delayed the implementation date of the program until May and they're looking at some other options for how they would evaluate these tests.
And so we're working with them to try to devise a -- and ACLA by the way it's not LabCorp alone.
LabCorp ACLA all of the ACLA members the CCLA too are working with them to try to devise a system that is going to be fair that's going to respond in a reasonable time frame to requests for coding for new molecular testing that's going to lead to fair payment with transparency on their side of what they're paying for.
Research Division</strong> No I appreciate that.
And I guess the bigger question is why would they add another level of complexity? I understand the transparency issue.
But obviously you've got a lot of moving parts now.
And how much exposure do you guys have? Have you applied for any of the Z-codes yet? I don't think it would behoove us to talk specifically about the actions that we've taken.
I will say I think our exposure is -- remember this applies so far just to the California region where they are the Medicare carrier.
Our exposure is relatively limited both because of the number of tests and because of the region.
But we're trying to work with Palmetto in a collaborative way to do something that's fair and equitable for all of the labs and allows the labs to get coding and reimbursement that's satisfactory to Palmetto and satisfactory to the labs and fair payments.
So I don't think we should get hung up on the individual parts of the process.
We should think about it as a long-term process.
Billing and coding transparency will be a positive thing.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then just my follow-up is given the current environment and organic growth coming in a little bit and your outlook for 2012.
I guess what do you think about the strategic acquisition environment? Are there some good deals out there? And then how do you manage or think about using free cash flow? At what point will you consider paying a dividend versus continuing to buy back stock? As I mentioned in response I think to the very first question one of the things that we're always looking at is capital structure and how we deploy capital.
I think there are some attractive acquisition opportunities.
There are as always there are plenty of things in the market.
We're very selective about what we're interested in.
And so we'll continue to look at acquisitions.
We always evaluate in terms of allocation of capital whether it makes sense to pay a dividend.
That's something that is always under consideration and that we talk about a lot.
And we'll continue to talk about it and some of it will depend obviously in are we right about our view of return to historic volume growth over time.
Because if we're not right it suggests a different sort of capital allocation.
Our next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> One follow-up question on Genzyme and I'm just trying to look at it from a little bit of a different perspective.
So based on the data points that you gave us we calculated about 7% to 8% step-down in top line contribution once you annualize the contribution from 4Q '11 to 4Q '12.
So one are we kind of in the ballpark? And if so is this how we should think -- is this kind of like the run rate that we should think of for 2012 factoring in kind of like the changes in commercial reimbursement et cetera? Should kind of like Genzyme top line contribution should be done on a run rate by about 7% to 8% '12 versus '11? Just trying to break down kind of like the top line growth components.
Ricky it's Dave.
We don't see that math at all.
So what I would suggest is get with Steve and Brad afterwards if you want to walk through the math.
Because I don't think it's going to be productive to try to walk through it on the call.
But I will say we don't see anything like that kind of step-down.
And in fact Genzyme had a very strong year 2012 versus 2011 and a very consistent rate of growth year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> So just to clarify the pricing reduction for managed care contract which you've talked about has been completely -- you expect to be completely offset in some more by volume growth? Is that how I should read your comment? No.
I don't think I said that.
I think what I said is that the -- although that would be my hope but I think what I said is that the contribution throughout the year in terms of revenue stability was quite stable.
And that the growth throughout the year year-over-year in revenues in terms of revenue was quite stable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's your expectation for '12? Yes.
I mean as Brad commented earlier there -- incorporated in the guidance is some managed care compression that hasn't fully shown up in the numbers.
But our expectation for '12 is and I think we said this in response to the very first question the growth of the Genzyme business year-over-year from a volume perspective is a very important priority for us.
Research Division</strong> I understand.
But my question is does guidance factor in that growth or is it just -- or is it upside to your guidance number? The guidance incorporates all of our assumptions and expectations about all the components of the business.
Our next question comes from the line of Dane Leone with Macquarie.
Just quick questions for me.
Your view of 2012 is histology as a mix of revenues up down or flat? And then finally all in for 2011 how many bolt-on acquisitions did you do? And if you could parse out the organic revenue growth attributed to those bolt-on acquisitions and what's your outlook for '12? So the smaller acquisitions like customer lists et cetera.
So histology in 2012 our expectation is basically flat and we don't break down the individual acquisitions or the number of acquisitions.
As we've said small acquisitions are a part of what we believe to be our organic growth and we expect we'll do a similar number in 2012 that we -- to what we did in 2011.
Okay.
And actually one more follow-up if I could.
Any competitive share shift you're seeing from Quest given the turmoil at the top of the management team there? Well I'm not going to associate myself with any comments about our competitor.
I think we – I think they're a tough competitor they continue to be a tough competitor in the marketplace.
I think we've done a great job over the last multiple years in attracting business away from them with IT improvements and service improvements and we're going to continue to stay focused on that.
Our next question comes from the line of Ashim Anand with Natixis.
Research Division</strong> My question was regarding the ROMA algorithm for ovarian cancer.
It is actually quite exciting to see that only with 2 markers HE4 and CA 125 you are able to achieve a 92% sensitivity which is equal then to OVA-A (sic) [OVA1] by Quest and Vermillion which have 5 markers.
So if you can comment more on that test.
And also related if there is any commentary from American College of OB/GYN or Society for Gynecologist -- Gynecological Oncologists in terms of ROMA.
And finally for this test to become screening test is that a goal? And if that is a goal do you think addition of more markers would achieve that goal? Okay.
So that was a lot and we'll try to answer it all.
First of all it's cleared by the FDA for assessment of malignancy in patients presenting for surgery.
It's not cleared for screening and we don't market it for screening.
Over time if the assay would become cleared for screening or if with the additional -- with the addition of additional markers it could be re-presented to the FDA for screening that's certainly something we would be interested in.
Remember because of the low incidence of ovarian cancer in the population it's challenging to get a screening test that's going to have the sensitivity and specificity that we would like.
But we've been working on that for a long time and will continue to do so.
In terms of the science behind the test and the Vermillion test what I would say is obviously FDA was satisfied in terms of clearing the test with the sensitivity.
What we like about it is the greater specificity than the competitive test.
And so overall I think it's a very attractive market opportunity.
But recognize it's part of an evaluation along with radiological and clinical signs and symptoms of a relatively small population which is women presenting with an ovarian mass for surgery and trying to assess malignancy.
So I hope that answered it and I think that's about all the time that we -- we have one more question? We have one more question.
It looks like it comes on the line of Anthony Vendetti with Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> It will be quick.
You said you had 104 new tests in 2011.
Can you just compare that to what you had in 2009 and 2010? It's probably about comparable to 2010 and probably a little more than 2009.
But that's -- we kind of think about 20 to 30 new tests a quarter being introduced as being our expectation and our goal.
Research Division</strong> And same thing for 2012? I would expect so.
Not having a whole list in front of me but that's just -- that's what we've historically seen as kind of the typical output.
Ladies and gentlemen that'll conclude the question-and-answer portion for our event.
I'd now like to turn the presentation back over to Mr.
David King for closing remarks.
Thank you Jeff.
Thank you all for listening to our earnings call and we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Laboratory Corp.
of America Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Keisha and I'll be year coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
David P.
King Chairman and CEO of LabCorp.
Please proceed.
Thank you Keisha.
Good morning and welcome to LabCorp's First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Joining me today from LabCorp are Brad Hayes Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Ed Dodson Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and Steve Anderson Vice President Investor Relations.
This morning we will discuss our first quarter 2012 financial results reaffirm our 2012 guidance highlight our progress on our Five Pillar Strategy and provide answers to several frequently asked questions.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Steve Anderson who has a few comments before we begin.
Before we get started I would like to point out that there will be a replay of this conference call available via the telephone and Internet.
Please refer to today's press release for replay information.
This morning the company filed a Form 8-K that included additional information on our business and operations.
This information is also available on our website.
Analysts and investors are directed to this 8-K and our website to review this supplemental information.
Additionally we refer you to today's press release which is available on our website for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call to GAAP.
These non-GAAP measures include adjusted EPS adjusted EPS excluding amortization free cash flow and adjusted operating income.
I would also like to point out that we are making forward-looking statements during this conference call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results the implementation of our business strategy and the ongoing benefits from the Genzyme Genetics and other acquisitions.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect the company's financial results.
Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our 2011 10-K and subsequent filings.
The company has no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now Brad Hayes will review our financial results.
Thank you Steve.
On today's call I will review 4 key measures of our financial performance: cash flow revenue growth margin and liquidity.
I'll also review our 2012 guidance.
First cash flow.
Our cash flow remain strong.
Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months ended March 31 2012 was $686.9 million.
We remain pleased with our cash collections.
DSO was 48 days at the end of March an increase of 1 day year-over-year and 2 days sequentially.
During the quarter we reduced our bad debt rate to 4.4%.
Second revenue growth.
Revenue increased 4% year-over-year in the first quarter.
During the quarter revenue per requisition increased 1.2% year-over-year.
Total company volume increased 2.8% year-over-year during the first quarter.
Esoteric volume increased 4.8% in the quarter.
The quarter benefited from an easier weather comp which increased the revenue and volume growth rate by 1.5%.
Although there was an extra calendar day in the quarter the strength of days in the quarter was approximately the same as last year.
Third margin.
For the first quarter our adjusted operating income margin was 19.9% compared to 19.3% in the first quarter of 2011.
We are very pleased with the margin improvement which reflects the positive impact from our integration activities.
Fourth liquidity.
We remain well capitalized.
At the end of March we had cash of $129.9 million and $500 million available under our revolving line of credit.
During the first quarter we repurchased $122.3 million of stock representing 1.4 million shares.
At the end of March $462.1 million of repurchase authorization remained under our share repurchase program.
This morning we also reiterated our 2012 financial guidance.
We expect revenue growth of 2% to 3.5%; adjusted EPS excluding amortization in the range of $6.75 to $7.05 excluding the impact of any share repurchase activity after March 31 2012; operating cash flow of approximately $950 million; and capital expenditures of approximately $155 million.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Brad.
We are very pleased with our first quarter 2012 results.
We generated strong revenue growth.
We delivered solid increases in core and esoteric volume.
Revenue per requisition increased 1.2%.
We lowered our bad debt rate to 4.4% during the quarter reflecting the continued exceptional performance of our operational and billing personnel.
We continue to make significant progress on each aspect of our Five Pillar Strategy.
The first pillar of our strategy is that we deploy our cash to enhance our footprint and test menu through acquisitions and to repurchase shares.
The acquisition market is attractive and we continue to see promising opportunities.
As always we will balance our execution of the first pillar of our strategy with good discipline around valuation.
The integrations of Genzyme Genetics and Orchid Cellmark are going well and are in line with our expectations.
Our rebranding of the Genzyme Genetics business has been well accepted by our customers.
As a reminder we adopted the name Integrated Genetics for the reproductive portion of Genzyme's business and LabCorp's legacy genetics business and we adopted the name Integrated Oncology for Genzyme's Oncology business and LabCorp's legacy oncology business.
Finally we repurchased approximately $122 million of our shares in the first quarter.
The second pillar of our strategy is to enhance our IT capabilities to improve the physician and patient experience.
We continue to see strong growth in the adoption of our Beacon platform.
LabCorp Beacon order entry capability is now deployed to more than 11 000 sites and approximately 56 000 providers.
We also have approximately 4 000 Beacon mobile users.
We added a number of new features to Beacon in the first quarter and we continue to receive positive feedback from users for its flexibility and functionality.
We recently initiated our Beacon patient portal.
This portal is a secure and easy-to-use online solution that enables patients to receive and share lab results make appointments pay bills set up automatic alerts and notifications and manage health information for the entire family.
We have seen fast adoption and are on track with our plan to launch the portal nationwide this year.
We continue to improve our electronic medical record connectivity.
We added over 6 000 new client EMR interfaces in 2011 and are on pace to exceed that number in 2012.
We continue to pursue our open platform strategy allowing our customers to connect seamlessly to LabCorp directly or via the EMR of their choice.
Over the course of 2012 we will continue to expand our IT offerings with decision support report improvements and additional patient- and physician-facing solutions.
The third pillar of our strategy is to continue to improve efficiency to offer the most compelling value in laboratory services.
In the first quarter we continued our Touch AccuDraw system implementation to more than 200 additional sites.
The system is now deployed in more than 1 300 sites across the country and is processing over 1.3 million accessions per month.
We recently introduced iris [ph] digital pathology to improve pathology workflow.
Instead of reviewing glass slides on a microscope and scoring them manually this advanced diagnostic method allows our pathologists to read and score digital slides using image-based algorithms.
This digital model allows creation of virtual centers of excellence fosters collaboration with peers in remote locations and increases both efficiency and quality.
The expansion of our Burlington lab campus continues to go well.
We have begun to consolidate several satellite locations into this state-of-the-art facility and will realize additional rationalization opportunities over time.
We continue to move testing into this facility over the next several months to enhance specimen flow and streamline our process.
The fourth pillar of our strategy is to continue scientific innovation at reasonable and appropriate pricing.
We introduce new tests and collaborate with leading companies and academic institutions to provide physicians and patients with the most scientifically advanced testing in our industry.
We recently enhanced our women's health initiatives by introducing a series of tests that are derived from a single collection swab making collection of samples convenient.
Our new swab tests offer clinically-validated profiles for targeted clinical conditions; are configured to be cost-effective for payers and patients; and provide high-quality results to guide diagnosis and treatment.
Further we offer panels as well as individual tests to give physicians appropriate choice in addressing patient needs.
We also launched 4 additional tests to detect species of candida within our new swab portfolio.
These additional tests are for patients with problematic or recurrent yeast infections and can be used when the most prevalent species of yeast infections are negative.
This approach to our offerings again emphasizes physician choice so testing is targeted and cost-effective.
We also recently launched additional HPV test offerings.
LabCorp now offers multiple HPV testing options to aid in the detection of cervical cancer allowing physicians to choose the method for papillate DNA testing that they deem best for their patients.
Last month we signed an exclusive agreement with OPKO Health for intellectual property associated with a potential Alzheimer's disease diagnostic.
OPKO has identified unique antibodies that appear to be elevated in Alzheimer's patients.
We will be exploring these markers and their potential to help guide and improve patient care through a diagnostic test.
The fifth pillar of our strategy is to develop alternative delivery models.
We continue to discuss alternative models with our managed care partners.
Though health care reform will likely change our payer mix and reimbursement systems our goal remains to provide customers with the highest value for their laboratory spend.
To this end we are developing our Beacon lab benefit solution to provide payers health systems and physicians a variety of options to improve laboratory quality and assist patients in receiving the right test at the right time.
We intend to discuss these initiatives in more detail over the next several quarters.
In summary we are very pleased with our first quarter performance and the progress we have achieved on our Five Pillar Strategy.
Now Steve Anderson will review anticipated questions and our specific answers to those questions.
Thank you Dave.
Can you describe the impact of the SGR fix in 2013? As part of the SGR fix enacted in February labs are slated to receive a 2% reduction to the clinical lab fee schedule effective January 1 2013.
Further absent any Congressional activity mandatory sequestration including an additional 2% reduction in the Medicare fee schedule will be implemented effective January 1 2013.
Can you update us on the status of the inquiry you received from the Senate Finance Committee? LabCorp continues to work closely with the staff of the Senate Finance Committee to respond to their request for information.
We were the first company to meet with the committee staff shortly after receiving their letter asking us to provide a responsive overview of how our contracts with managed care organizations work.
We have provided the staff with hundreds of pages of documents responding to their request.
We were disappointed by some recent comments reported in the press which are not accurate and we will continue to work closely with the committee to answer their questions and provide all appropriate information.
Can you update us on the mix of your business coming from esoteric testing? In the first quarter approximately 41% of our revenues were in the genomic esoteric and anatomic pathology categories.
As we reiterated last quarter our goal is to increase our esoteric test mix to approximately 45% of our revenue within the next 3 to 5 years.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Steve.
Thank you very much for listening.
Again I would remind you that we have a large number of analysts covering our stock at this time and so we ask that you make your questions brief and please try not to repeat questions that have already been answered.
We're now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions]  Your first question comes from the line of Adam Feinstein with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a question to start out here.
So it seems like between seeing the Quest results and your results it seems like volume trends appear to be stable here.
Do you think that's a fair way to think about volume trends? Yes Adam I think it is.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just as a follow-up and I'll be brief here.
Just -- I guess just -- as you think about the industry environment Dave with some of the backdrop in Washington and some of these cuts coming how are you thinking about that in terms of creating M&amp;A opportunities? And I guess what are the implications of some of these cuts that are coming in the future? Well I could speak for a long time about this and negate my own admonition that we should be brief.
Let me just say Adam that I think that the reimbursement environment from the government -- everybody knows we're facing a 2% cut that was implemented -- that will be implemented as part of the SGR fix.
And it's mystifying to me that an industry that accounts for 1.6% of the total Medicare spend is bearing 15% of the savings that are generated from Medicare in that most recent SGR fix.
So it's obviously going to be difficult on the industry.
It's going to be difficult on smaller competitors and that will provide some M&amp;A opportunities.
I would also say though -- and I'll wear my chair of ACLA hat here for a moment there are thousands of small independent labs in this country and many of them serve niches such as nursing home and long-term care facilities that the major laboratories don't serve.
Our model is an ambulatory model where people come to see us or specimens arrive from the doctor's office through our couriers.
And going out and doing nursing home draws and the number of staffs required it just doesn't fit within our model.
So I have a serious concern that some of these cuts particularly when you look at the operating margins of some of these smaller laboratories that serve long-term care facilities are going to start to create real beneficiary access issues and cost issues for the Medicare program.
So yes there will be M&amp;A opportunities but there also will be long-term consequences for seniors if this trajectory of reimbursement cuts continues.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Bonello with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> So trying to understand a little bit the movement in gross margins year-over-year the decline was the biggest it's been in a while despite Genzyme's annualizing and the synergies that you noted in the proxy from Genzyme.
And so I'm just trying to understand if that's due to the fact that volume growth was so strong in Q1 of last year or is it just all the different acquisition moving parts? Or should we be extrapolating less of a benefit from mix or maybe even price pressure? Bill it's Brad.
I think it has more to do with the acquisition.
So as you recall we closed Orchid at the end of the fourth quarter of last year so it's new basically in the first quarter and we have -- we're early in the integration there.
So we do have Genzyme integration and past acquisition integration that's benefiting.
Some new acquisitions and one that we're still integrating also from last year is Clearstone in the clinical trial space.
So I think it's a bag of -- a mixed bag of improvement in some relative newness and still progress being made in others that is resulting in what we see there.
And Bill -- Dave.
Just to follow on that Clearstone in particular because of some of the European operations until the synergies are fully realized is a sizable -- has a sizable impact on gross margins.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean is that really most of it because I would just think that the contribution from those 2 acquisitions would have to have been relatively minimal so -- I mean even if they were at a huge discount to what your corporate gross margin is it still seems like you'd be seeing a lot of gross margin pressure.
Well the thing is if you look all the way down the P&amp;L I mean most of the savings that we're realizing from Genzyme are coming in the SG&amp;A.
So the gross margin profile of Genzyme is still not vastly superior to our typical corporate margin.
And then when you add a sizable gross margin expense component with Orchid and Clearstone it actually does drag it down pretty fast.
So I'd say that is the vast majority if not the single explanation for the gross margin decline.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Dave the digital technology that you mentioned for the pathology sector that sounds like the answer to what's been a nightmare process I guess a manual preparation and monitoring.
Is this -- am I correct in viewing that as a material savings and capacity reduction opportunity or will we not be able to see that in your numbers going forward? Bob I think it is a material opportunity to generate savings for a couple of reasons.
One which is not insignificant is just moving the glass slides around to different specialty pathologists.
And the other is our ability to create virtual centers of excellence where pathologists can review slides either individually or in collaboration without necessarily having to all be present.
So I think there is savings opportunity there.
Obviously we have to scale it to the entire organization but we've made a very solid start.
Research Division</strong> But it doesn't save you on your prep time that manual process of receiving cutting and staining? We're working on some automation tools for the prep but it doesn't directly impact prep at this point.
It just impacts review and scoring and reporting.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> One housekeeping question one big picture question.
First just on the housekeeping side.
Your noncontrolling interest is essentially gone here due to the buy up in Canada.
The question is do you expect to retain full ownership going forward there or is the plan to sell equity to a local partner? Dan this is Brad.
We do have people who are interested in that business and think it is important to have a local partner so too early to call how that's going to end.
But definitely something that we're interested in.
Research Division</strong> And for modeling purposes -- just timing.
Should we keep minority or noncontrolling interest basically the same as what we saw in Q1? Any thought there Brad? I just think it's all incorporated in our range of guidance and wouldn't want to guide on a specific assumption like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
My big picture question Dave is you're at 1.5x leverage basically.
You've hovered around 1.5x to 2x since doing Genzyme and basically have maintained that leverage despite a lot of cash flow with fairly consistent buyback that we've seen over the last year.
So I guess the question here is how are you thinking about optimal leverage? Is 1.5x to 2x the right range? And if so I guess shouldn't we really expect your share count to shrink in the high single-digit percentage range going forward? Darren it's Dave.
So I think the optimal leverage is 1.5x to 2x.
And I think when you model 1.5x to 2x leverage and you model the cash that we generate I think it's a reasonable assumption that either we're going to continue to do acquisitions with that cash or we're going to continue to repurchase shares.
Or depending on the circumstances obviously we could consider the initiation of a dividend or other means of returning capital to shareholders.
But yes the optimal leverage is in that 1.5x to 2x range and our deployment of the cash generated over time as it's traditionally been would be first toward acquisitions and second toward share repurchase absent some change in our capital philosophy.
Research Division</strong> And just as far as buyback goes I mean because that's where the focus has been over the last year in large part in terms of your free cash flow is there a way to help us think about just the deployment to keep that 1.5x to 2x leverage that you're referring to? Well I'll let Brad comment on this.
I mean we're not paying down debt to delever.
So the delevering comes naturally as EBITDA grows.
I don't know that there's a good way to think about the amount of share repurchase because we have tried to be consistent other than to say it seems to me that the amount of share repurchase that we did in this quarter is sort of what we would think about as a fairly typical amount in an environment where we're not doing a lot of acquisitions.
Yes Darren I'll just add to that.
I mean our philosophy is unchanged as Dave alluded to.
Our first goal is to grow this business and a lot of that growth can come from acquisition given the market share that we have and the number of other players that are out there.
And we alluded to that earlier a little bit in the industry commentary about the cuts.
So that's still #1.
I think when those opportunities are not present you see us go more to share repurchase.
And yes we do have additional leverage that we could take on to be at optimal levels but we like to reserve that right to do for opportunistic situations.
Your next question comes from the line of Amanda Murphy with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question on the revenue per requisition growth in the quarter.
So I'm curious is there -- were there any moving parts there? So for example acquisitions impacting it or sort of Genzyme-related contract changes impacting that metric this quarter? Amanda it's Dave.
I mean there's always moving parts.
The 2 probably biggest moving parts here were payer mix -- so we had again strong growth in the drugs of abuse testing which is not at the average price point of the company; and then test mix in that  obviously as we've said for some time vitamin D has flattened histology is under pressure.
So it's a combination I would say of payer mix and test mix that's -- we're not getting as much of a lift as we traditionally have gotten from mix but I'm very pleased with the revenue per requisition result in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay I got it.
And then -- I know you don't give guidance specifically to the breakdown between revenue per req and volume growth but is there anything we should be thinking about in terms of nuances other than the comp situation as we sort of progress through 2012 on both of those metrics? Well since we don't give guidance on it it would be hard for me to give you anything to think about.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then last question you talked about Beacon in terms of the benefit management side of it.
I'm curious just if you could talk to that offering and are you getting traction in the marketplace at this point? Or is it early to -- if you can provide some more color on that offering.
Sure the idea of the Beacon Lab benefit system is to essentially combine a variety of options and provide a menu that -- whether it's a managed care plan whether it's a health system or whether it's a physician practice can select from.
So it runs the range from decision support to help physicians select the right test to decision support at the time that we provide reports to help the physicians manage the patient optimally to credentialing of providers to be able to order tests.
I mean there's a whole range of services within the lab benefit system that can be offered depending on the desire of the customer.
I would say it's early.
There certainly is very strong interest in the market again ranging -- spanning the range from managed care plans to health systems to large physician practice groups for some tools that will help them select the proper test; select the highest quality and most efficient most effective cost-effective laboratory to perform it; and provide support for the decision-making process at the time the results are delivered so that the patient can be treated better.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Ellich with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First could you give us the drugs of abuse testing growth? I don't think Steve mentioned that in his prepared remarks.
Kevin it's 6.4%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Dave just wondering what the pricing environment is like now.
We've heard a lot of comments about downward pressure coming from commercial payers.
Just wondering if you have anything to add about that.
Yes Kevin.
I mean I think we all know the government pricing environment.
Frankly I was a bit surprised by the commentary yesterday on pricing.
We since 2007 2008 when we had the pricing reset I think we at LabCorp feel that we have been very disciplined on pricing and we've been successful in gaining real price increases over time.
Now they're not gigantic [ph] real price increases but we never said they would be.
But unit price over time has improved.
And so I guess any time that you're in a negotiation people are -- we're trying to get more price and the managed care plans certainly are not saying we want to pay you more.
But one I don't think the environment has changed.
Two I think the environment is pretty stable.
And three I hope that the commentary yesterday didn't indicate that there's going to be some dramatic price cutting on the competitor side in search of volume because what we've seen over time is that the industry is growing volume is growing.
And for the entire industry pricing discipline is very important and we will continue to maintain pricing discipline here at LabCorp as we've done for the last 5 6 years.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then suffice to say you guys still continue to be the low-priced provider in the industry.
We do.
And everything that we do around here in terms of innovation and efficiency is designed to maintain that position.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then just a last follow-up on that how are the efforts with the managed care plans going to shift volume from the high-cost setting? Is it too early to say anything or do you have any data points you can give us? I think there's a renewed level of attention to it or a greater level of attention to it.
One of the comments that you do hear when you talk to people at managed care plans is that lab is really the only unmanaged area of spending.
So everything else there's preauthorization.
There's radiology mental health hospital inpatient emergency room.
There's preauthorization or there's some kind of gatekeeping function.
There is not and has not been that in lab.
So that's part of what the lab benefit the LBS is designed to address.
But it's also even aside from the LBS collaboration with the managed care partners to help them redirect cost to the more efficient providers.
And it is going to require some lifting on their side and I think we've seen more interest than in the past.
But I think it's too early to say whether there are going to be tangible results.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one last quick one.
The 1.2% -- the 2.8% volume growth if we back out the 1.5% is organic volume growth 1.3%? Or was there any tuck-ins in that? Well there's no tuck-ins.
Remember there was Orchid.
So the organic volume growth we'd say is approximately 1%.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones for you Dave.
Just first on SG&amp;A I think you mentioned that you were getting some of the benefit of integration sort of below the line.
Can you maybe just update us on some of the details in terms of the types of things that you're embarking on now whether it's Genzyme or where Westcliff stands operationally to just make sure we know what are sort of the -- what's going on on the ground these days.? Yes.
I mean the big areas that you're going to see an impact from in SG&amp;A are corporate support functions billing back office bad debt expense.
Exactly.
Those are probably the major areas in which you would expect to see and we are seeing improvement in both of those that you called out Genzyme and Westcliff.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean I recognize there is some quarterly volatility naturally but relatively speaking and the types of numbers that we're seeing this quarter are relatively sustainable on the SG&amp;A front if not improved over time? Yes I would think so Tom.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just thinking back to your comment earlier on the Medicare front you noted that you were surprised that as a percent of the health care spend I guess you're bearing a larger burden of the cost -- or the savings for the government on the SGR.
Do you have any idea why you think that happened? You've got the Senate sort of inquiry if you will.
You sort of took a disproportionate share of the burden on the SGR.
How do you view the environment in Washington for the labs right now? Well I think the environment in Washington for health care right now is pretty tough to begin with.
And I think that when we were up on the hill and asking for the rationale behind the 2% reduction the fundamental thing that kept being raised was that MedPAC had "recommended a 10% reduction in the clinical lab fee schedule." Now if you look at the MedPAC recommendations what they actually say is if you had to fix the SGR over 10 years for $300 billion and it all had to come from Medicare here are the things that would be cut.
And they did say the lab fee schedule would be one of those things and there were a whole variety of other hospital cuts.
And so I think that -- and MedPAC specifically said that's not a recommendation that's just "If we had to do it this is one way you could." I think that got translated -- and if you look at the conference report on the legislation that got translated into "MedPAC recommended a 10% cut." So we're meeting with the MedPAC to try to clarify their position and clarify the position for the Hill.
The other thing I would point out not to suggest that -- I mean we are very disappointed by the reimbursement reduction but I think if you talk to the hospitals they feel like they got hit pretty hard in the SGR fix.
So there was a lot of pain for health care providers and it's -- we need to deal with the SGR fix as a long-term issue not as a "every year there is a number that we have to find to stave off reductions in the physician fee schedule " which we know are never going to happen.
And so every year we know these reductions are never going to happen and yet we make long-term changes in the law regarding reimbursement for other providers that have consequences.
Research Division</strong> And just to close out the topic you mentioned that maybe some of the press reports on the Senate issue were a little disappointing to you all.
Do you have any better insights on when we might see something wrapped up relative to that investigation or next data points or milestones we should be watching for? I don't Tom.
I think -- we've tried to be very cooperative.
We met with the staff we've turned over documents.
They've given us a new request for information which involve some pricing questions.
And obviously it's sensitive because it involves our contracts with other people.
And they've made those requests not only of us but of others.
And I think everybody who has received those requests is evaluating them in terms of what it's appropriate to provide.
So I don't have any timeframe for when we're likely to see this resolved or when anybody else who has received the inquiry is likely to see it resolved.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave I would be interested to get your thoughts on some of the recent FTC decisions regarding some oppositions [ph] that have been proposed and kind of what you think the implications might be for the lab industry.
You have anything in mind Gary? LLC Research Division</strong> No.
Just -- I mean the 2 big ones that people have been watching that are out there.
Yes.
I mean I think it's hard for me to provide more commentary than the FTC provided.
Obviously they're -- as they defined the market in Medco Express they found that the transaction was not anticompetitive.
And as they looked at the market or as they perceived the market in Omnicare PharMerica they felt that the transaction was anticompetitive which I guess would lead me to say that the definition of market is the critical factor in these determinations and if the market is defined broadly transactions have an easier chance of succeeding than if the market is defined narrowly.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then question Brad maybe on the bad debts it looks like you had some -- made some good progress in the quarter although it looks like DSOs actually increased year-over-year and sequentially.
So can you maybe just explain the dynamic there? Yes.
Sequentially it's historic.
We typically see about a 2-day rise between Q4 and Q1 just given the sales flow between the 2 quarters and the cash collection dynamics at the end of the year.
So the sequential is sort of historical and in line.
The one day year-over-year I would say is due to a several factors.
One would be we're having some experience from the implementation of 5010 the new electronic filing requirements both on ourselves and the impact on our customers on our physicians who end up paying us for laboratory services.
They've had slowdowns.
Another one would be we still have -- not to the magnitude that we talked about last quarter but a few lingering impacts of the Genzyme acquisition and conversion but much much smaller than the numbers we called out in the last several quarters.
And last but not least as we reduce the bad debt rate it has some increase on DSO.
But all in all we look at our agents we look at our allowance we look at all of that and DSO in combination and we're comfortable where we are.
Your next question comes from the line of Ralph Giacobbe with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us the contribution of Orchid and Clearstone to revenue in the quarter and whether that would have a disproportionate impact to pricing versus volume? Ralph it's Dave.
I don't think it's material to either pricing or volume.
Clearly Clearstone is not and I don't think Orchid is material to pricing or volume either.
We've already given -- basically given you the volume contribution which was about -- in the range of 30 basis points.
So I don't think it's material to pricing.
Research Division</strong> And just the revenue overall revenue for these 2 in the quarter? Ralph it's Brad.
We said last quarter that Orchid for the year would contribute a point to overall revenue.
Clearstone was immaterial to call out and we haven't done that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess my second question it's our understanding that Aetna recently made Genzyme Genetics out of network.
Is there any way you can give us any sense of contribution there maybe how we should think about that and your ability to sort of retain that if it does go out of network? And maybe even how we should think about sort of volume and pricing stat for the balance of the year if you think that would have any impact if that volume shifted.
Well it is true that Genzyme was terminated from the Aetna contract.
Just to give you some background there post the acquisition Aetna did extend the contract with Genzyme which we were very pleased about.
I don't think that Aetna was jumping up and down and turning cartwheels about the fact that this termination was going to occur.
But I think they were contractually required to do it and they felt that that was their contractual obligation.
I think at the same time the providers and patients the Aetna providers and patients who use Genzyme's services recognize the unique and differentiated value proposition.
I disagree with the comment made yesterday that Genzyme doesn't offer anything that our competitor offers.
I think that's just not the case.
So we're going to continue to serve the Aetna patients and providers who want to use us and we hope that that will be most of them.
And we're going to continue to offer our test menu our genetic counseling and our overall expertise in reproductive genetics and oncology and we'll be honored and pleased if those providers and patients will continue to use us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any willingness to sort of give a sense of what the run rate of that -- of the  Aetna contribution is? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my last one I want to go back to -- you talked about sort of the somewhat uncontrolled cost on the lab side within kind of the managed care realm and not a lot of sort of preauthorization or medical policy in place.
Is there -- have you guys looked at or is there any way you can estimate either what percentage of your -- either overall tests and/or the esoteric or genetic or molecular tests that you'd estimate now have any preauthorization in [ph] medical policy? And then to that end I mean can you tell or do you think that that has any impact on the pricing/mix figure as we go forward and more of these things are put in place? Now first of all I did not say uncontrolled cost.
I said unmanaged utilization.
There's not utilization management.
That doesn't mean that managed care is not aggressively trying to control lab costs and working to control lab costs.
So what I said is there's no utilization management in place for laboratory services and that most other services in health care do have some form of utilization management.
We have a very small number of situations in which we're subject to preauthorization for a very limited number of tests.
And I think this is something that is likely to increase over time.
I don't think the issue is overutilization.
I think the issue is not ordering the right test for the right patient at the right time.
And I think in fact there are some circumstances in which better decision support will lead to more utilization of things like prenatal genetic screening where it's not being properly utilized today.
So I think long-term the likely implications for us are relatively small.
The hope is that it will encourage physicians and health systems to use testing more wisely and also to be cognizant of the cost of the testing that they're ordering when they make those decisions.
Your next question comes from the line of Dane Leone with Macquarie.
Just for Dave.
I guess if you could provide a high-level outlook or change in thinking perhaps for 2012 and then where you started the year it'd be helpful because original guidance -- EPS guidance for the year I guess did not include share repurchases.
You did $122 million in the quarter and I guess presumably did not forecast.
The weather comp set I think added somewhere $0.04 to $0.05 in EPS.
So by kind of reaffirming the guidance range I guess there's potentially a view from the market set that you may have become inherently more bearish on the 2012 outlook so I guess any color you can give to that.
And I guess for Brad just a quick question on operating cash flow.
It seems like for the first quarter it's the lowest it's been since 2008 and I was just curious what the reason for that was.
So Dane this is Brad.
We'll go ahead with operating cash flow and I'll let Dave come back to the outlook.
As we look at the operating cash flow for the quarter it's entirely impacted by some working capital timing items so we're maintaining our guidance for the year and feel like that's still appropriate guidance on the cash flow.
So  entirely working capital timing-related on that metric.
So Dane on the guidance.
I mean let me first -- this notion that somehow the weather accounts for a beat of guidance does not make any sense to me.
It does affect the year-over-year comp but our guidance doesn't assume that we're going to have terrible weather.
Our guidance assumes that we're going to have good weather.
And your model I don't think assumed that we would have $0.05 negative of weather in there.
So I don't think the weather has anything to do with the beat this quarter.
I think what has to do with the beat this quarter is good volume good pricing good discipline around expenses.
I'm not any more bearish than I was at the beginning of the year.
I feel exactly the same way.
We have one quarter in the book.
We've always said that our guidance encompasses a wide range of outcomes and we started out with what we feel is very realistic guidance.
We didn't give you low guidance and allow ourselves a lot of room.
We gave you very realistic guidance and we're well within the range of outcomes that we expect.
So we'll revisit the guidance next quarter but I feel very very comfortable.
I think the year is going to shape up just as we've talked about.
There's going to be better utilization trends.
It's going to be better year-over-year comps for us because the comps get easier as we go along and looking forward to a great year.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So just a quick follow-up on this pull-through whistleblower lawsuit.
I'm obviously not going to ask you to comment on the merits of the overall case because I doubt you want to do that on this call.
But just procedurally could the DOJ still potentially join the suit? And is there any deadline by which they either have to join or not join? Or should we just assume that if they haven't done it by now they're not going to.
I mean just really any color on how to think about that would be helpful as we kind of ponder this overall case.
Sure.
I think the fact that the government has chosen not to intervene and allowed the lawsuit to be unsealed is significant because the suit was under seal for some period of time.
The government in my experience did a thorough investigation and determined that they did want to intervene in this suit.
And I believe they reached the same conclusion with regard to a related suit that had been filed against Quest.
However the government is never precluded from coming back and revisiting its decision not to intervene so when the papers are filed when the judge makes a ruling the government -- up until the time the case is finally resolved the government always has the opportunity to reconsider its position and advise the court that it would like to intervene.
And obviously we are hopeful that the government has done a thorough investigation and made a sound decision but I can't rule out that they could change their mind.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick clarifying questions.
First just going back to volume.
When you talked about a 30 basis point contribution you were talking about total acquired contribution so year-over-year the quarter's volume was 28 less 30 bips acquired less 1.5 weather is how you got to the 1% organic number you talked about earlier.
Is that right? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second for Brad.
There was a question earlier about G&amp;A levels and you had said something along the lines of considering kind of this level as the right way to think about it forward.
I wasn't sure if you were talking about as a percent of revenue or on a dollar basis.
Obviously you had about a $10 million step down in the fourth quarter that very nicely carried through to the first.
So I guess on a dollar basis should we assume that that kind of grows modestly with revenue growth but generally at these new lower levels? Or is there anything through the year that might bounce it up? Nothing through the year that I can think of.
So I'd think of it on an absolute dollar basis before I would as a percent of sales because sales can vary.
And bad debt would be the only thing I can think of that would make the absolute dollar value grow as sales change.
And I would say that there are integration activities that are ongoing that are working to further help that metric.
But I'd be careful also with the overall dollars because there can be things like payroll days that vary quarter-to-quarter.
But generally speaking I think absolute dollars ability [ph] are something that we would strive for.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
We had that nice step down in the fourth quarter that was kind of maintained.
I just want to make sure there's nothing material to sort of that run rate that might be not contemplated but it sounds like the answer is no.
Nothing we can think of.
The next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of soft [ph] questions.
First of all -- so obviously we know what the weather impact was on volume but can you just provide us what the same store growth excluding weather was for core? No.
We've given you the volume number.
That's what we give Ricky.
Research Division</strong> So when we back into -- based on the information that you provide I think you get 2% core volume.
Should I make the assumption that weather has more impact on one segment versus the other? Or more impact on core versus esoteric? No.
Look the number we gave was 2.8%.
1.5% benefiting from weather and about 30 basis points benefiting from Orchid.
So that's 1% core volume growth.
We also gave you the year-over-year esoteric growth.
My view is weather is weather.
It affects volume indiscriminately and largely equally.
And so I don't think there's anything in the 1% number that can be further chopped or refined to get at a better sense of volume.
And certainly I just -- we can pick apart these numbers all day long but the reality is the core business grew the esoteric business grew we feel good about both of them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly -- I mean I know that you said in response to a question before that you feel exactly the same as you felt before.
But I actually get the sense that you feel better because you said that you actually expect better utilization trends for the remainder of the year which -- I think in past quarters you said that the environment -- utilization environment it continues to be to some degree challenging.
So I actually see that the tone is more positive.
So is there something that you're seeing maybe kind of like 2Q to-date or something that you see in terms of kind of like share shift that makes you more optimistic as to how volumes are progressing for the remainder of 2012? I obviously am not going to talk about 2Q today.
Again I feel that we have been very consistent from the fall forward that we felt that we would see better utilization in 2012.
We felt that over the year utilization would pick up and sort of return to what we hope will be a more normal environment as we get late in 2012 and into 2013 and that the comps would improve because last year we had deceleration.
I feel exactly the same way.
I don't feel better.
I don't feel worse.
I feel very confident and comfortable with the guidance range that we've given with the performance in the quarter and with the fact that we're executing well on our priorities.
Your next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Gavin Weiss in for Lisa.
Just a quick one to clarify your comments on the extra calendar day.
I just want to make sure I heard you correctly.
I know it's a leap year but there's a timing around New Year's.
Your revenue days are the same correct? Well the way that we analyze that Gavin is strength of days.
And what Brad said is the strength of days was approximately the same year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Palmetto I know it's set to go into effect on May 1.
Are you still actively fighting this? I think the -- we and ACLA have been working very closely with Palmetto.
We feel like they made some major improvements to their program and we're hopeful that we're going to be able to have a collaborative effort in their endeavors to do a better job pricing and paying for molecular testing and our endeavors to make sure that we get fairly paid for the valuable service we provide.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Vendetti with Maxim Group.
It's actually Brian in for Anthony.
I guess just first could you elaborate a little bit more on -- sorry I think you did answer that question.
So the drugs of abuse testing you've captured share of drugs of abuse testing over the last quarter -- almost every quarter for the last couple of years now.
What's driving that share capture? And are you seeing strength of drugs of abuse testing in areas -- in regional areas where you're stronger or how is pricing in that business? Pricing in the business is quite stable.
Obviously as we've said many times it's below our average price point per requisition.
I think we've done a good job in drugs of abuse testing.
Again all of the underlying investments we've made in improving the quality of service at our patient service centers all the investments we've made in the touch system and AccuDraw and all the things that we're doing have led to in my view better and more consistent levels of service facing the patient and that's what drugs of abuse testing is all about.
So I think it's -- the drugs of abuse testing gains great -- it gains great leverage and synergy from the core business -- from the patient service centers from the transportation the couriers.
And I think all the investments we've made to improve service are why we're seeing positive results there.
All right.
And then also can you quantify or somehow frame the margin impact from the European operations of Clearstone and sort of what's the timeframe of the integration of those ops so when we'll start to see that margin improvement? I don't think we want to get into that level of detail about that business.
Okay.
Not even on the timeframe of the integration? Not even on the timeframe of the integration.
Your next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just had one question to ask on a long-term picture for cash deployment.
If you look at consensus estimates it does appear the Street is more or less assuming that you sit on the majority of the cash that you're going to generate.
So based on what you said in your previous commentary here my question is if you guys don't find compelling acquisition opportunities would it be conceivable that you would deploy all of your free cash to share repurchase or dividends particularly if the volume environment remains tepid beyond this year? Well yes it's conceivable.
I don't think it's likely because I think there will be attractive acquisitions but if there are not attractive acquisitions to make we're certainly not going to sit on the cash and let it build.
We're right at an hour so we're going to try and be done here in the next 5 minutes if we can.
Next question comes from the line of Art Henderson with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dave can you remind us just what contracts are up for renewal this year on the managed care side if you have any big national ones and how the outlook is there? The only contract that's up for renewal this year on the national level is Humana and we're engaged in discussions with them and feel quite comfortable about where we are.
So that's it for managed care in 2012 -- major national managed care.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And what's the outlook in 2013 on that? We have some renewals coming up in 2013 and again obviously it's very early in discussions and again feel good that we'll be in a good position to tell you more as things progress.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Dave did the Horizon BlueCross BlueShield did that contract get resolved or is that still ongoing as well? Yes we did renew that contract over a multi-year period on the same terms and conditions that were previously in place.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then earlier you were talking about the HPV assay.
Is that a new DNA test? Is that -- refresh my memory on that.
What's happened is that other competitors have entered the market and normally Art we don't offer multiple versions of testing for the same analite.
[ph] But in this case because of Roche being in the market and some other competitors having entered the market we're offering multiple options for the physicians to choose the HPV assay that they would like.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I see.
Okay.
And then last question for Brad the DSO I know you talked about it ticking up.
Does it go back to the levels that we saw in the previous quarters? I think so yes.
Well thank you very much for listening.
I want to make one additional comment.
As you know at the end of April Dr.
Mohapatra will be retiring from Quest and I wanted to say that although a competitor Surya has been a strong collaborator in our activities at ACLA and for the broader industry and he's been a strong advocate for diagnostics and for our industry.
So we certainly -- we'll miss Surya and wish him well in his future endeavors and we wish you all a good day.
Thank you all for listening.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2012 Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Reggie and I'll be your conference operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the call over to the host for today's call Mr.
David King Chairman and CEO.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to LabCorp's Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Joining me today from LabCorp are Brad Hayes Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Ed Dodson Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; Adam Feinstein Senior Vice President Corporate Development and Strategy; and Steve Anderson Vice President Investor Relations.
This morning we will discuss our second quarter 2012 financial results update our 2012 guidance highlight our progress on our Five Pillar Strategy and provide answers to several frequently asked questions.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Steve Anderson who has a few comments before we begin.
Before we get started I would like to point out that there will be a replay of this conference call available via the telephone and Internet.
Please refer to today's press release for replay information.
This morning the company filed a Form 8-K that included additional information on our business and operations.
This information is also available on our website.
Analysts and investors are directed to this 8-K and our website to review this supplemental information.
Additionally we refer you to today's press release which is available on our website for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call to GAAP.
These non-GAAP measures include adjusted EPS adjusted EPS excluding amortization free cash flow and adjusted operating income.
I would also like to point out that we are making forward-looking statements during this conference call.
These forward-looking statements include among other statements about -- among others statements about our expected financial results the implementation of our business strategy and the ongoing benefits from the Genzyme Genetics and other acquisitions.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect the company's financial results.
Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our 2011 10-K and subsequent filings.
The company has no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now Brad Hayes will review our financial results.
Thank you Steve.
On today's call I will review 4 key measures of our financial performance: cash flow revenue growth margin and liquidity.
Also review our updated 2012 guidance.
First cash flow.
Our cash flow remains strong.
Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months ended June 30 2012 were $749.5 million excluding the Hunter Labs settlement.
We remain pleased with our cash collections.
DSO was 47 days at the end of June a decrease of 1 day sequentially and an increase of 1 day year-over-year.
During the quarter we maintained our bad debt rate of 4.4%.
Second revenue growth.
Revenue increased 1.4% year-over-year in the second quarter.
During the quarter revenue per requisition increased 1.5% year-over-year.
Total company volume was essentially flat year-over-year during the second quarter.
Esoteric volume increased approximately 1.3% in the quarter.
Third margin.
For the second quarter our adjusted operating income margin was 19.7% compared to 19.9% in the second quarter of 2011.
The decline in adjusted operating income margin is due to a 30-basis-point drag from recent acquisitions that we've not fully integrated.
Fourth liquidity.
We remain well capitalized.
At the end of June we had cash of $124.4 million and $510 million available under our credit facility.
During the second quarter we repurchased $130.3 million of stock representing 1.5 million shares.
Year-to-date we repurchased 2.9 million shares for $252.6 million.
At the end of June $332 million of repurchase authorization remained under our share repurchase program.
This morning we updated our 2012 financial guidance.
We expect revenue growth of 2% to 3%; adjusted EPS excluding amortization in the range of $6.80 to $7 excluding the impact of any share repurchase activity after June 30 2012; operating cash flow of approximately $950 million; and capital expenditures of approximately $155 million.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Brad.
We are pleased with our performance given that we continue to face a very difficult environment for volume growth.
During the quarter we grew earnings per share by nearly 8% year-over-year.
We continued to integrate our recent acquisitions and focus on expense control lowering our selling general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue by 90 basis points year-over-year adjusted for the Hunter Labs settlement and Orchid legal expenses in 2011.
And we extended our contract with WellPoint on a multi-year basis stable pricing and continued exclusivity in our key markets.
We continue to make significant progress on each aspect of our Five Pillar Strategy.
The first pillar of our strategy is that we deploy our cash to enhance our footprint and test menu through acquisitions and to repurchase shares.
In June we announced our intended acquisition of MEDTOX Scientific a premier forensic and clinical laboratory with a diverse test menu and a reputation for exceptional quality dependability and customer service.
This acquisition gives us a great foundation for growth in our specialized toxicology testing as we build and expand our Toxicology Center of Excellence.
The transaction has received FTC clearance and we expect to close as soon as customary closing conditions are met including the approval of MEDTOX's shareholders.
The integrations of Integrated Genetics and Integrated Oncology and Orchid Cellmark continue to go well and are in line with our expectations.
We continue to realize synergies on schedule and to offer new services in genetics and oncology.
Finally we have repurchased 2.9 million shares at a cost of $252.6 million year-to-date.
The second pillar of our strategy is to enhance our IT capabilities to improve the physician and patient experience.
We continue to see strong growth in the adoption of our Beacon platform which is now deployed to more than 14 500 sites and has more than 66 000 users.
We added a number of features to Beacon in the second quarter and we will add more analytical ordering and reporting capabilities specifically for physicians and hospitals later this year.
We successfully completed the pilot of our Beacon patient portal and received positive customer feedback.
The portal is a secure and easy-to-use online solution that enables patients to receive and share lab results make appointments pay bills set up automatic alerts and notifications and manage health information for the entire family.
We continue to see rapid adoption with more than 2 000 new patient registrations each week and we remain on track to launch the portal nationwide later this year.
We continue to improve our electronic medical record connectivity.
We have added over 3 500 new client EMR interfaces year-to-date and are on pace to exceed 7 500 in 2012.
We continue to pursue our open platform strategy allowing our customers to connect seamlessly to LabCorp directly or via the EMR of choice.
We continue to expand the capabilities of our Beacon platform to deliver data aggregation and advanced analytics services including LabCorp datasets alongside diagnostic guidelines prescription data and hospital information to aid physicians and health care administrators in treatment and population management.
These new data sources our industry-leading services that should assist our customers in multiple ways as they seek to improve patient outcomes and reduce the cost of care.
The third pillar of our strategy is to continue to improve efficiency to offer the most compelling value in laboratory services.
We are pleased to report the LabCorp Touch accessioning and workflow tool is now installed in over 1 500 locations and deployment is nearing completion.
LabCorp Touch including AccuDraw automates key aspects of our specimen collection improving quality by reducing secondary collections by 50% and significantly reducing accessioning labor.
Additionally Touch and our enhanced logistics capabilities allow us to move specimens more rapidly through our supply chain widening our lab-testing windows and improving turnaround times.
We have expanded our patient self-service offerings through 2 key enhancements.
First our online appointment scheduling system now allows patients to enter demographic and insurance information reducing their registration time at our PSCs and enhancing our efficiency and their experience.
Second in select markets we have introduced the telephonic voice recognition system to schedule appointments in our Patient Service Centers.
We began the rollout of the Vantage positive ID system in our histology testing division.
The system will improve quality standardize workflow and enhance throughput across all of our histology operations.
We anticipate the rollout of the Vantage system to last approximately 18 months.
We are preparing to pilot our splitting and sorting robotic system which we call Propel [ph] over the next several months.
We are excited about this opportunity to enhance efficiency and quality.
The fourth pillar of our strategy is to continue scientific innovation at reasonable and appropriate pricing.
We introduced new test and collaborate with leading companies and academic institutions to provide our physicians and patients with the most scientifically advanced testing in our industry.
We recently launched an age-based guideline initiative for cervical cancer and STD screening.
This innovative age-based test protocol aids physicians in ordering cervical cancer and sexually transmitted disease screening tests.
Clinicians  can now select a test number that will individualize cervical cancer and STD testing based on the patient's age and corresponding test protocol as published in the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists guidelines.
We continue to enhance offerings in the new swab family of tests.
New swab allows us to perform multiple women's health tests selected by the ordering physician from a single-collection swab.
We are the only laboratory that has validated each test we offer on a precise collection device used for new swab testing meaning that doctors and patients can be assured of the highest quality results to guide diagnosis and treatment.
In May we announced our collaborative relationship with Ariosa Diagnostics for which we offer an innovative non-invasive test for detection of common fetal trisomies using DNA in maternal blood.
The test is performed using a maternal blood draw taken at a doctor's office or Patient Service Center and provide accuracy approaching that of invasive testing for common fetal trisomies.
The fifth pillar of our strategy is to develop alternative delivery models.
We continue to discuss alternative models with managed care partners health systems and physician groups.
And our Beacon Lab Benefit Solution product will be operationally available next quarter to better meet their needs.
Our goal in this initiative is to provide payors health systems and physicians with a variety of options to improve laboratory quality reduce treatment costs and improve patient outcomes.
In summary we are pleased with the quarter and the progress we have achieved on our Five Pillar Strategy.
Now Steve Anderson will review anticipated questions and our specific answers to those questions.
Thank you Dave.
Can you describe the impact of the Medicare reimbursement cuts you will face in 2013? Absent any additional congressional action through the end of the year we would anticipate an approximate 5% reduction to the clinical lab fee schedule beginning January 1 2013.
The Affordable Care Act baseline for the 2013 update the clinical lab fee schedule will be a negative 0.95% based on the recently published CPI-U and productivity adjustment figures.
As part of the Sustainable Growth Rate fix the clinical lab fee schedule will be re-baselined an additional 2% lower effective January 1 2013.
Further absent any congressional activity mandatory sequestration will impose an additional 2% reduction in the clinical lab fee schedule effective January 1 2013.
Together these cuts sum to an approximate 5% cut to the clinical lab fee schedule which represents approximately 12% of our total revenue.
In addition to the reduction in the clinical lab fee schedule mandatory sequestration will impose a 2% reduction in the physician fee schedule effective January 1 2013.
The physician fee schedule represents approximately 2% of our total revenue.
Can you update us on the status of the inquiry you received from the Senate Finance Committee? LabCorp continues to work closely with the staff of the Senate Finance Committee to respond to their request for information.
We were the first company to meet with the committee staff shortly after receiving their letter asking us to provide a responsive overview of how our contracts with managed care organizations work.
We continue to work closely with the staff to respond to their inquiry.
Can you update us on the mix of your business coming from esoteric testing? For the year approximately 40% of our revenues were in the genomic esoteric and anatomic pathology categories.
As we reiterated last quarter our goal is to increase our esoteric test mix to approximately 45% of our revenue within the next 3 to 5 years.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Steve.
Thank you very much for listening.
We are now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is a little disorienting with Adam not getting the first question.
I asked this question on the earlier call but there's a lot of discussion continuing around pricing pressure and for a very long time there was pricing stability.
And I don't know exactly when but it seems like 5 or 6 years ago we started to see pressure on price.
So maybe could you comment about is there a path back towards pricing stability and what are the challenges of getting there? Yes.
Gary I guess -- it's Dave.
I guess I would characterize it a little differently which is there was -- I think as everybody remembers in 2007 and 2008 a fairly sizable pricing reset and my view is that since that time pricing has been quite stable.
And that on both a unit cost and a mix basis pricing has generally been positive.
So I look at other industries probably aside from pharmaceuticals and health care services and I see a trend where unit pricing -- I mean you look at imaging at hospital services look at physician services I see a trend where unit pricing has been fairly steadily going down.
Whereas for us unit pricing has been relatively flat and in a couple of years unit pricing has been positive.
So our pricing in this quarter was positive and we're happy about that.
And we continue to make every effort to be disciplined on pricing given the surrounding environment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just a follow-up to that would be with the -- assuming the Accountable Care Act is implemented what kind of impact do you see on your overall unit pricing from the implementation of health care reform? I just think it's -- I think it's too early to hypothesize about what's going to happen to price.
There are too many variables that are in play.
For example it's been widely discussed that employers may decide not to continue to extend coverage and pay the penalty instead.
If that happened and employees go to the exchanges I mean that has one potential pricing impact.
You have potentially more patients in Medicaid which has unit pricing implications if they're uninsured now or if they're outside the system.
So I just think it's too early to tell what implications the ACA would have for price because there are too many moving pieces.
Your next question comes from the line of Amanda Murphy of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> This is a follow-up to some comments Dave that you made about the alternative delivery models.
I'm curious how -- what are you seeing these days in terms of managed care's efforts to manage lab spend? How willing are they to adopt their type of models? And typically how do we think about those models impacting the P&amp;L relative to current models? I think that there is increasing focus in managed care on lab trend not so much on lab spend because as we have always said the spend is 3% of total health care expenditure although we provide a heck a lot more than 3% of the value.
But I think there is increasing focus on trend and the trend is utilization.
And it's also what tests are being selected.
So I think in a appropriate way managed care and it's not just only managed care by the way it's integrated delivery networks it's health systems are focused on what tests are being ordered and why are the tests being ordered and are they being ordered from the right provider.
So I think there is more willingness to approach these issues.
Like everything there's a implementation period there's a learning curve.
And we're still in the early stages of what I would describe as managed care and hospitals and delivery networks and health systems and even physician groups implementing a more focused approach to how tests are ordered.
Research Division</strong> So just thinking over the next couple of years how do we think about the offsetting factors of -- I think there has been a lot of discussion about hospitals purchasing physician practices and how those test volumes are that the -- I guess the referral source changes the direction of the test volume.
And then you think about hospitals selling their outreach businesses and some of the things you talked about.
I mean how do you -- how you rationalize all of those and think about the impact to volumes over the next couple of years? Does one seem like it's standing out more than the other? So obviously we've talked about it and it's been widely discussed that health systems I would describe them as big health systems are purchasing physician practices as well as other -- a significant number of other types of services as well which has the potential to redirect the flow of lab specimens.
On the other hand it also has the potential to significantly increase the cost of the lab expense to the payors and even the internal costs of the laboratory services that the health systems are now providing to the physicians.
So to me the increasing focus on reducing the overall cost of care and on directing not only lab work but all services to the highest quality and most efficient provider benefits us because I think we're the highest quality and most efficient provider.
Research Division</strong> And then just last one if you think about volumes over the past few years they've been -- it's been a challenging environment just given the macro situation.
How do you think about -- if you put reform aside for a second how do you think about this general utilization of patients? Is this something that you think is a fundamental shift in how people are using healthcare? Or is this something that you think as the macro environment theoretically improve then we could see better utilization levels? I've always maintained that as the macro environment improves that we will see improved utilization levels.
And I continue to hold that view.
It certainly is the case that we're in a period of low-volume growth.
That's the environment and so it requires us to manage the business very well to be able to continue to be successful.
But we're also in a very very tough macro environment with a lot overhang of high unemployment and the economy not picking up steam the way that economists and everybody else thought that it would.
And I do think that has the effect of muting the use of health care services generally and lab services specifically.
The next question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions here.
The first is just on organic growth.
Could you comment a little bit on what you think your underlying organic growth was in the quarter if you x out some of the smaller acquisitions that you made over the last 12 months? Darren this is Brad.
If we go back in and look at that -- the schedule we prepared to look at the organic growth I'm going to speak to the volume metric that volume in the second quarter was down 50 basis points on a year-over-year basis.
Research Division</strong> And if you could just maybe comment a little bit more about the drivers of the organic growth trends are you seeing anything that are worth pointing out in either bucket any test categories anything that would help put this deceleration into perspective? Sure 2 things come to mind that are drivers.
One is vitamin D.
And the vitamin D test as you know grew quickly for several years and it has since flattened out.
So I think that is challenging to the growth rate of overall volume.
The other is in our histology area.
We see continued weakness from a volume perspective in the histology category of our business.
And I think they are some of the trends that we've talked about in the past are still with us and impacting our experience there.
Research Division</strong> And just specific to histology is there a deterioration versus what -- we've heard about in the past is it still kind of a single-digit decline? Darren it's Dave.
I think it's just a continuation of the trend.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess the other question I had is just stepping back.
And Dave I know you've made comments to investors and analysts over time just about the decelerating growth and the overall environment.
As you think about that more and look at the company's capital structure if this trend persists how seriously would you consider dividend on top of share repurchase? It seems like we're looking at much more GDP-like growth and that may be deserving of a dividend for your shareholders.
Darren I mean we've talked about this frequently in the last 18 months and have said that our goal is to make a decision on this issue of whether to initiate a dividend at the end of this year.
I think one of the confounding factors in terms of the idea of introducing a dividend is if what I'm reading in the press is accurate and nothing changes in the tax structure next year the potential marginal tax rate on dividends could be 45%.
And so that in my view really takes away from the attractiveness of a dividend.
So some of this is going to depend on what are -- what is Congress and the executive branch going to do and are they going to be able to come to any agreement about the tax structure? And the second is what do we see in the environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last thing here just maybe a comment on strategy.
It seems like one of the bigger market share opportunities for the big labs still remains to be hospital business.
And I know you've commented a little bit in this but maybe can you just update us maybe more specifically on how you're approaching that market? What types of things you're working on there that might allow you to capture share in that realm? Yes.
And I think when we think about the system the system is certainly becoming -- the health care system is becoming more health system centric.
I would not -- I think hospitals are becoming more than hospitals.
Hospitals own physician practices.
They own urgent cares.
They own acute care facilities.
They own imaging facilities.
So hospitals are transforming themselves into integrated delivery networks broader health systems.
And I continue to believe that we have all the tools in place.
We have all the right strategies to demonstrate to hospitals and health systems that we can improve the quality of the laboratory services and ultimately of the patient care that's delivered and we can help them reduce their costs.
I think some of it is that the health systems also need to increase their awareness of the savings and quality improvement opportunities.
Managed care payors need to increase their awareness of the savings and quality improvement opportunities.
And we need to continue to refine the message and refine the financial analytics that demonstrate that.
So I think there's some -- there's opportunities on all sides of the equation.
But I continue to believe that we're extremely well positioned to benefit from what we're all going to see which is in the next several years which is there is going to be pressure to reduce costs.
The higher-cost less-efficient providers are going to be disadvantaged.
And the more-efficient providers particularly the high-quality more-efficient providers like LabCorp are going to be in a strong position.
Your next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First -- the first one is more focused on the near term.
If you can just detail for us what would be the impact of the MEDTOX acquisition on pricing metric in the second half of the year.
Ricky we -- since we haven't closed we haven't incorporated any of the MEDTOX numbers into our evaluation.
You can -- obviously MEDTOX is a public company so you can look at their revenues and their reported price and do that math.
But it's not something that we're incorporating into our outlook for the rest of the year until we actually close.
Research Division</strong> But if we just think about it if we -- about the trends should we think of it as a headwind or a tailwind to second half as we kind of work it through our model? I actually don't know because I have not looked at their -- I believe their PPA is comparable to ours.
But again it's a publicly reported number and so it -- the calculation should be relatively easy to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just going to talk longer term as we think about stuff like industry growth and I think you commented earlier on your expectation for volume to go back to kind of like historical rates as the economy improves.
So when you think about stuff like top line growth and the mix between volume and the price should we get to kind of like historical 45% top line growth just from core business fundamentals improving? Or are you looking to augment top line growth with complementary acquisitions and not necessarily kind of affecting core business but just looking outside core and what would you look as -- see as complementary? So we've always said our foundation model was 4% to 6% top line growth.
It's a combination of volume price and some small fold-in acquisitions and that continues to be our view of the long-term opportunity.
When we think about complementary acquisitions you can't say yes and you can't say no hypothetically to anything without having had the chance to evaluate it.
I wouldn't be -- so I wouldn't rule out something that would be highly complementary to what we do.
And over time we've done some of those things.
They've been very small.
For example we've acquired small IT companies that provided capabilities to do things that we felt it was easier to buy than build.
So I wouldn't rule anything out.
But I think each one we would have to evaluate on a case-by-case basis.
We would have to determine is it complementary to our core competencies does it give us the opportunity to advance our strategy do we have the management capabilities to run it? Those are the factors that we obviously -- what would the return be and how will we -- how would this add value to shareholders? And those would be the things that we would evaluate in any situation where we look into that -- where we looked at a complementary acquisition.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But would it be fair to say that for the time being you still -- your key focus is on the more small fold-in acquisitions? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Gavin Weiss in for Lisa.
And hopefully this will go a little bit more smoothly than our performance on the last call.
But in the press release you noted that you expect Genzyme to be slightly accretive which I believe is consistent with what you said previously.
But can you clarify if there have been any changes in your expectations for Genzyme? Is it more or less accretive than you previously thought? I didn't listen to the last call but obviously there's something I need to go back and listen to I guess.
No our expectations for Genzyme have not changed in terms of what we set out at the beginning of the year.
The next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick clarification one on vitamin D.
Is there something in there beyond just sort of the comps there that you think is driving the slowdown? And specifically what I'm wondering is did see any signs of pushback from payors with regards to the amount of vitamin D testing that gets done? Isaac it's Dave.
There have been some proposals by a couple of the Medicare carriers to impose diagnosis-related requirements on Vitamin D.
They certainly are not material to the overall utilization.
I think what's happened is we have reached a plateau in vitamin D which is that there was tremendous growth as there was widespread physician adoption.
Now the test is largely adopted.
The utilization is what -- is where physicians think it's appropriate and so we've just seen it flatten  off.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then maybe if I could ask a more structural question.
Long term we're obviously in a -- based on the economic forecast sort of for protracted period of sluggishness -- and so [indiscernible] that continues to be a headwind for volumes.
How do you look at maybe taking the asset base you have? You obviously touched millions and millions of people in the health care system.
Are there other verticals that you might consider expanding into? You've obviously bolted on with incremental capabilities.
I'm just trying to think out of the box here regarding other ways in which you can try and monetize the access you have to the health care system.
I think as I've said in response to Ricky's question we always look at things that might be interesting that could be complementary.
Again the question is is it going to create value for shareholders? Are we going to get an acceptable rate of return on invested capital? Do we have the -- does it fit with our core competencies? Does it -- is it -- do we have the capability -- the management capabilities to run these things? And obviously I mean we've all read the reports of a number of recent acquisitions that one could argue or if not outside the fairway at least on the edges of the fairway for some sizable services businesses we continue to look at opportunities.
I don't have anything specific that I can't point to and say this is a terrific opportunity for us.
But we continue to look at what might be out there in the marketplace that we would have the capabilities to run and that would enhance value for our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> And you guys talked at maybe a board level sort of a horizon.
I mean if we're in a period of protracted sluggishness -- I mean there sort of becomes sort of this question of if rates stay low there's tons of cash flow in the business.
And I understand the comment on returns.
But I mean we've seen a lot of other adjacencies in health care where companies maybe taking a short-term hit to returns in the interest of a long-term strategic shift.
And if we sort of stand this current volume environment is there a deadline here where you might start to revisit your hurdles there and then pivot into a new business? I think it -- I'm not going to comment on what we talk about at the board.
I think at every level of the company we consistently review our strategic focus.
And we review what the business opportunities are in health care services generally and the laboratory industries specifically.
I'm hesitant to say that there's a deadline by which we're going to do something simply because we're in a rapidly changing environment and granted we're in a low growth environment.
But with 2014 ahead if the ACA is implemented there can be dramatic change in the overall health care environment.
And as I've mentioned earlier on the call we're in an environment in which the center of gravity in health care services is moving towards broader integrated delivery networks and broader health systems larger and larger physician groups.
These are all things that continue to evolve and we're going to continue to evolve with them.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Ellich of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> First just wanted to congratulate Adam again on joining the company.
Dave not to beat a dead horse on the volume environment but I was just wondering if there is any way you can quantify or how much of this do you think is cyclical versus structural? I think it will be hard to -- it's hard to come up with a number Kevin.
I mean if we look back at the first quarter of 2011 when I think people had the general sense that the economy was getting better that we were kind of coming out of the 2009 2010 funk organic volume growth was about 3%.
Pretty good.
Very good.
As we went through 2011 and it became clear to -- I think that we weren't coming out of the funk and that in fact Europe was going into the funk and employment was not improving and the fundamentals of the U.S.
economy were not really  getting much better we saw organic growth decline.
And then the beginning of this year again we had a little bit of a pickup and this quarter we saw a decline.
So I continue to believe that the data suggest that when the economy gets better we are going to return to better utilization trends.
There's no question that there is more focus on cost management and on utilization management in every aspect of health care services than there was 3 years ago.
But I still think this is more cyclical and less structural.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just going back to the molecular diagnostic initiatives that have been put in place by Palmetto and the new codes that are coming out in 2013.
I don't think you guys have ever really quantified what percent of your revenues might be impacted by this.
Could you give us any update on that? Yes.
I mean let me just say as I think I've said a number of times this -- in our view first of all we support enhanced transparency in billing and coding.
The amount of molecular testing that is billed to Medicare is quite small and this is not a material component of our revenue.
And it also is not going to have a material impact on our financials.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just last question could you give us an update on the managed care contracts? I think Humana was coming up at the end of this year.
Has that been renewed? And then you have what Cigna and WellPoint next year? Well Humana is coming up at the end of this year and we're deep in discussions with Humana.
Cigna is the middle of next year and we're in discussions with Cigna as well.
And as we mentioned earlier on this call we extended WellPoint on a multi-year basis with stable pricing and retaining exclusivity in all of our key markets.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> One question I want to ask about -- you may have talked about this and I missed it but what are the trends on test per requisition or ascension and -- accession and what really drives that? Is that just product selection as the primary driver on that? Gary it's Brad.
We continue to see an increase in that trend.
If we look back over a long time of history it has continued to go up.
So I would say that just new tests I mean vitamin D would be a good example that we've talked about many times on the call today.
New tests or tests that have a new or -- application or new use in the practice of medicine we believe drives that trend.
The other thing that's helping or -- that trend I believe is the aging population.
Because we do know from looking at our different parts of our business that older patients receive more tests per encounter than do younger patients.
So I think it's -- it has many factors.
But the ones I just mentioned I think are the primary drivers.
Gary it's Dave.
Just a little more color on that.
I mean first of all there are small increases in the number of test per requisition year-over-year.
So they're not a test per requisition.
They're tenths of a test per requisition.
And the second thing is just to be clear it's one of our fundamental principles that we offer physicians a wide variety of choices in how they select and order tests.
So we offer them a very broad menu.
They may choose to have groups of tests that they have preselected but we offer them a very broad menu and the ability to order every test individually other than the tests that are grouped into panels by CMS for example.
So it is -- it's physician choice that is changing the number of tests per requisition not product choices to use the word you used to describe it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one sort of pseudo-follow-up on that just kind of thinking forward I mean obviously you guys have mentioned ATOs a little bit and those are just getting started.
And some of the financial incentives for physicians are initially much more limited than you could see down the line or we have seen.
For example in California where physicians are in capitated models.
I mean do you have enough experience I mean maybe in California with groups like HCP which DaVita bought which are on a full capitated model? And what sort of impact there is on lab utilization versus fee-for-service? I mean all of these big integrated medical groups that have taken capitation talk about really substantial reductions in imaging and hospital in-patient utilization.
And I would guess that to a certain extent lab testing falls into something as well where utilization is impacted negatively.
But do you have enough experience with that just to comment on that? Yes.
The -- normally in that type of an environment Gary we're -- we would be sub-capitated to the capitated provider.
So -- and then we might have and we would have carve-outs for specific types of testing that wouldn't fall within the sub-capitation whether they're molecular testing or things that are not included in a capitated rate.
So even in our capitated managed care plans and in our sub-capitation with IPAs I don't think there's huge negative impact on utilization.
Obviously there are pricing implications of sub-capitated models but I don't think we see huge impact on utilization.
And again I think that just goes to the point of -- I don't think that doctors are out deliberately over-ordering lab testing or even deliberately over-ordering images or -- I mean that's not what physicians do.
I think there's liability concerns for many physicians.
There's patient demand for many physicians where a patient comes in and says "My knee has been hurting for 3 weeks and I want an MRI done." So I don't think any -- other than truly bad people I don't think anybody sets out as a physician to overuse services.
I think that there are a number of drivers in the system that lead to utilization.
And again this is -- the whole intention behind the LBS is -- it's not to tell people you can't order lab testing.
It's to order -- it's to help physicians order the right test for the right patient at the time the patient needs it by the highest quality provider at the most effective cost.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I wouldn't -- I don't disagree with that I guess.
Obviously we've seen that since there's been financial incentive to use less services or incur less costs that marginal test or diagnostic might fall to the wayside.
But if you're sub-capitated -- I mean if you saw a growth to that clearly you're not going to I guess be willing or able to make some of the pricing or revenue concessions you've made and I think some of your existing capitated book.
I guess that would be a fair conclusion right? Yes.
And by the way I also -- I do agree with you that when -- one of the things that can change the equation is when physicians have a financial interest in the services that they're ordering.
That is a negative for the system and it's a negative for utilization and it's a negative for the highest-quality patient care.
Your next question comes from the line of Dane Leone of Macquarie.
I have a question on Genzyme Genetics actually and how the integration process is going.
And maybe if you could just provide a high-level update on when you think you'd hit your ROIC hurdle rate for that deal in the future of 2013 or '14 be it.
And it did seem like you know something in the press release so I'm just wondering if there was a change in integration strategy or timeline than what had been previously stated.
Dane this is Brad.
Just want to comment the integration is going well.
When we started out this process on a multi-year -- with a multi-year integration plan and I would say so far we are on track.
And we would expect to come out of 2013 with some improvements still in early 2014 at the levels that we started out believing that we would achieve.
So nothing in our thinking has changed in terms of that time frame or that experience and -- as part of the integration.
And just -- I know this question has been asked over and over but just on the I guess high level on the volume growth I'm just trying to parse out the macro issues here.
Because I mean the comps year-over-year on the volumes have obviously been affected by some of these high-deductible health plans but should then boost it a little bit by just that national demographic shift.
Yes employment year-over-year has kind of comps out to 0 I think.
Maybe it's incrementally more negative but just what is -- I mean why -- there's something structurally different? Or I mean what can you do in terms of content to help drive it? You've had a number of introductions of interesting tests in oncology.
Is it just really sluggishness with the routine business that's kind of overwhelming everything else or is it a temporary fact that hiccup maybe in the esoteric business that we can see a re-acceleration potentially later this year? Dane it's Dave.
I don't really think there's much to add.
I think we've covered this topic in as much detail as we can really offer you.
The macro environment is tough.
Unemployment is not getting better.
Managed care enrollment is not getting better.
And I think we're doing a very good job in terms of executing on our company priorities and our Five Pillar Strategy.
But we can't make the external environment improve for us.
Okay.
And just a last question can you just give an opinion or some color on the market for acquiring hospital outreach programs or customer lists at the smaller scale something that you don't really report? Is that environment becoming more competitive? We've heard some private equity groups getting into the roll-up game with the smaller labs.
I'm just curious for your thoughts on that.
I think the acquisition market is always competitive.
I wouldn't describe it as any more competitive or less competitive today.
The industry remains highly fragmented.
The barriers to entry remain extremely low and it's a very intensely competitive market for starting businesses and for acquiring them and for running them.
As we have about 5 minutes left so we're going to try to -- if you're asking -- if you're going to ask again about the environment maybe we can go -- not  pass over that.
And if you have substantive questions we'd be happy to address them.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Vendetti of Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> You had talked about the weakness in histology and vitamin D.
Well I guess vitamin D had been strong for a while and that's dropped off.
Can you talk about some of the other tests that you think will help drive genomic and esoteric testing to 45% of revenues in the next 3 to 5 years? Yes.
We've seen really nice growth in our specialized endocrinology business our specialized coagulation business.
We have seen good performances in cardiovascular or our chronic kidney disease program is having terrific success in terms of year-over-year growth.
We're very pleased about the progress with new swab with the age-based guidelines for sexually transmitted disease testing which follows the -- specifically follows the ACOG recommendations so the so physician is able to select based on what ACOG tells them to do.
The universal carrier screening tests Genzyme Genetics Integrated Genetics the Ariosa non-invasive trisomy -- fetal trisomy test a number of oncology markers and of course continued development of our next-generation sequencing platform for even broader analysis of tumors cancers and oncology generally.
So I think there are a lot of terrific things going on at LabCorp.
And again outside of this environment I think we will see nice improvement in utilization and esoteric testing growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Hima Inguva of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to know your outlook on M&amp;A for remainder of the year.
Do you expect to see smaller bolt-ons or will you be open to doing larger transactions? I have a follow-up.
I think if -- it would depend on what larger transaction but I think if an attractive transaction became available of course we would look at it.
We're in the process of doing a sizable integration with Integrated Genetics Integrated Oncology and we have another not-insignificant integration coming up assuming that we're able to close MEDTOX in relatively short order.
So the focus will clearly be on the fold-in bolt-on type deals for the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> And do you expect to exit debt markets this year? We haven't made a decision on that but we're always looking at whether there's the opportunity to improve our overall capital structure.
Your next question comes from the line of Sandy Draper of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My questions have been asked and answered but just maybe a quick clarification.
I think at some point you guys had talked about either how much organic volume growth or total top line growth you need to get margin expansion excluding any cost-saving activities.
Could you just remind me what that is and tell me if it's total top line growth indiscremental price or volume or if it needs to be dependent on volume? Sandy this is a Brad.
I don't know that we've ever put that out there in terms of a hard-and-fast number but I go back to the kind of the way we think about the business in that 4% to 6% top line growth range which as Dave mentioned earlier has some tuck-in acquisitions built into it.
It creates nice leverage in our business regardless of any cost structure to grow our margins and our earnings.
So I really haven't -- I don't think have a grid of okay at this level it's this and at this level it's that and we're always working on the efficiencies that Dave mentioned as part of our prepared remarks.
Sandy it's Dave.
I mean obviously if you get 3% unit pricing growth it's easy to get margin expansion.
So -- but there is a lot of leverage in the volume and so we tend to think of it as it's a -- like everything in this business it's a combination of the impact to volume and price.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick housekeeping item.
On the equity method income you've obviously had a $2.9 million increase there that you've disclosed.
But I guess the question I had is will you have a new Canadian partner in this calendar year? Should we expect the equity method income to remain pretty consistent now that you own basically 100% of that? Darren this is Brad.
One thing I'd like to point out too on that $2.9 million that was excluded.
That gain was excluded from our adjusted EPS.
I want to make sure people appreciate that.
And on the second question we're always looking at our business structure in Canada and thinking about partners and how we own and operate that business.
So it would be speculation to think about what might happen between now and the end of the year.
At this time there are no further questions.
I would now like to turn the call back over to David King.
Thank you very much Reggie.
We appreciate everyone listening this morning and wish you all a good day.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q3 2012 Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Cheney and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now turn the presentation over to your host for today Mr.
David King Chairman and CEO.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to LabCorp's Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Joining me today from LabCorp are Brad Hayes Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Ed Dodson Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; Adam Feinstein Senior Vice President Corporate Development and Strategy; and Steve Anderson Vice President Investor Relations.
This morning we will discuss our third quarter 2012 financial results update our 2012 guidance highlight our progress on our Five Pillar Strategy and provide answers to several frequently asked questions.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Steve Anderson who has a few comments before we begin.
Before we get started I would like to point out that there will be a replay of this conference call available via the telephone and Internet.
Please refer to today's press release for replay information.
This morning the company filed a Form 8-K that included additional information on our business and operations.
This information is also available on our website.
Analysts and investors are directed to this 8-K and our website to review this supplemental information.
Additionally we refer you to today's press release which is available on our website for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call to GAAP.
These non-GAAP measures include adjusted EPS adjusted EPS excluding amortization free cash flow and adjusted operating income.
I would also like to point out that we are making forward-looking statements during this conference call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results the implementation of our business strategy and the ongoing benefits from acquisitions.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect the company's financial results.
Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our 2011 10-K and subsequent filings.
The company has no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now Brad Hayes will review our financial results.
Thank you Steve.
On today's call I will review 4 key measures of our financial performance: cash flow revenue growth margin and liquidity.
I'll also update our 2012 guidance.
First cash flow.
Our cash flow remained strong.
Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months ended September 30 2012 was $723.3 million.
DSO was 48 days at the end of September an increase of 1 day sequentially and an increase of 2 days year-over-year.
During the quarter our bad debt rate was 4.3%.
Cash receipts at the end of the quarter were lower than anticipated but we expect them to recover during the fourth quarter.
Second revenue growth.
Revenue increased 1.1% year-over-year in the third quarter.
During the quarter total company volume increased 1.4% year-over-year.
There was 1 less revenue day in the third quarter compared with last year.
On a per-day basis volume increased 3.1% and organic volume increased 0.5%.
Esoteric volume per day increased approximately 2.2% in the quarter.
Revenue per requisition decreased 0.3% year-over-year.
Revenue per requisition was negatively impacted by the MEDTOX acquisition and continued challenges in histology.
Third margin.
For the third quarter our adjusted operating income margin was 18.2% compared to 18.8% in the third quarter of 2011.
One fewer revenue day compared to last year had a 50-basis-point negative impact on operating margin.
Also the MEDTOX acquisition negatively impacted the year-over-year comparison.
Fourth liquidity.
We remain well capitalized.
At the end of September we had cash of $466 million and $1 billion available under our credit facility.
During the third quarter we repurchased $127.8 million of stock representing 1.4 million shares.
Year-to-date we have repurchased $380.4 million of stock representing 4.3 million shares.
At the end of September $204 million of repurchase authorization remained under our share repurchase program.
In August we completed a $1 billion bond offering that consisted of 2 tranches: $500 million of 2.2% senior notes due 2017 and $500 million of 3.75% senior notes due 2022.
As previously disclosed the proceeds were used to pay the balance of our existing credit facility and for general corporate purposes.
Finally we benefited from a lower tax rate in the quarter bringing our year-to-date tax rate in line with the first 3 quarters of 2011.
This morning we updated our 2012 financial guidance.
We expect revenue growth of 2.5% adjusted EPS excluding amortization in the range of $6.88 to $6.93 excluding the impact of any share repurchase activity after September 30 2012.
Operating cash flow of approximately $915 million and capital expenditures of approximately $145 million.
I will now turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Brad.
We are pleased with our performance given that we continue to face a very difficult economic environment.
During the quarter on a per day basis volume increased more than 3% year-over-year and organic volume was positive.
Taking into account one fewer day in the quarter operating income margin was essentially flat.
We continue to generate strong operating and free cash flow which we both invested in the business and returned to shareholders through share repurchase.
We grew adjusted earnings per share of 9.3% and 9.8% year-to-date on a year-over-year basis and we continued to measurably reduce selling general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue.
We continue to make progress on each aspect of our Five Pillar Strategy.
The first pillar of our strategy is that we deploy our cash to enhance our presence in key markets and our test menu and to repurchase shares.
In July we closed our acquisition of MEDTOX Scientific a premier forensic and clinical laboratory with a diverse test menu and a reputation for exceptional quality dependability and customer service.
We were excited about the opportunity to grow MEDTOX's specialized toxicology testing business and we welcome the talented MEDTOX employees into our LabCorp family.
The integrations of our acquisitions are going well and are in line with our expectations.
We continue to realize synergies on schedule and to offer new services in genetics oncology and esoteric toxicology.
Finally we have repurchased 4.3 million shares at a cost of $380.4 million year-to-date.
The second pillar of our strategy is to enhance our IT capabilities to improve the physician and patient experience.
After a successful pilot of our Beacon Patient Portal early in the year we expanded the rollout to 3 of our 6 divisions nationwide.
The portal is a secure and easy-to-use online solution that enables patients to receive and share lab results make appointments pay bills set up automatic alerts and notifications and manage health information for the entire family.
We have experienced fast adoption maintaining growth of more than 2 100 new patient registrations per week and we remain on track to launch the portal to the remaining divisions this year.
Our electronic medical record connectivity continues to expand.
We have added over 6 000 new client EMR interfaces year-to-date and are on pace to exceed our goal of 7 500 new connections in 2012.
We remain committed to our open platform strategy allowing our customers to connect seamlessly to LabCorp directly or via the EMR of their choice.
The third pillar of our strategy is to continue to improve efficiency to offer the most compelling value in laboratory services.
During the quarter we made significant progress in the rollout of our advantage positive ID system which is now implemented in more than 40% of our core histology sites.
This system standardizes workflow eliminates waste and positively identifies specimens throughout processing.
In the fourth quarter we will complete the rollout of our new handheld courier communication devices.
This enhancement provides greater visibility in the specimen collection enables more robust route engineering and increases courier efficiency.
Given the persistently weak volume environment we continue to closely review our cost structure.
The fourth pillar of our strategy is to continue scientific innovation at reasonable and appropriate pricing.
We introduce new tests and collaborate with leading companies and academic institutions to provide our physicians and patients with the most scientifically advanced testing in our industry.
During the quarter we broadened the options for genetic carrier screening among our women's health offerings.
We launched the inherent test carrier screen which allows us to provide relevant genetic screening for many inherited diseases found throughout the pan-ethnic U.S.
population.
The panel represents a collection of common diseases in the U.S.
general population and we expect it to address needs for multiple ethnic-based testing scenarios.
In addition our genetic counselors will provide telephone or televideo support for patients using our inherent test carrier screening.
Sequencing is an emerging tool to support molecular diagnostics due to the rapid evolution of next-generation sequencing technology.
We are well underway in our plans to support the launch of new testing panels.
The transition of current testing to this platform will offer a more comprehensive content relative to our current platforms.
As part of these ongoing efforts we participated in a recent financing round for Foundation Medicine.
Foundation is a leader in the use of next-generation sequencing to assist in treatment decisions for cancer patients by looking at patient-specific molecular changes in tumors.
The information is used to report targeted therapies and relevant clinical trials specific to individual patients.
The fifth pillar of our strategy is to develop alternative delivery models.
We continue to discuss alternative models with managed care partners health systems and physician groups so that we will be well positioned in the future.
As part of our BeaconLBS implementation we are pleased to announce the introduction of our first-generation point-of-care decision support product which interfaces with our lab test ordering system.
Providing physicians with convenient point-of-care decision support tools will facilitate evidence-based test selection helping them choose the right test for the patient at the right time.
Physicians patients and our managed care partners will benefit from this product innovation which has been designed to improve quality and more effectively manage costs without disrupting workflow.
We have conducted 3 physician pilots in Florida and these physician offices overwhelmingly told us that our decision support product was easy to use beneficial to patient care and made their practices more effective.
Health systems provide outstanding lab services but most of these businesses make a small profit or operate at a loss.
Changes in test mix reduced reimbursement from government and private payors for all services not just lab and increasing cost of providing services make health systems more interested than they had been in the past in broad collaborations.
LabCorp offers a broader test menu greater affordability for patients and payors and the highest levels of quality and service to health systems and the communities they serve.
We will continue to pursue this key initiative to offer an enterprise-wide solution that will provide health systems patients physicians and payors with the highest quality diagnostic testing through the lowest cost delivery model.
In summary we are pleased with the quarter and the progress we achieved on our Five Pillar Strategy.
Now Steve Anderson will review anticipated questions and our specific answers to those questions.
Thank you Dave.
"Can you describe the impact of the Medicare reimbursement tests you will face in 2013?" Absent any additional congressional action through the end of the year we would anticipate an approximate 2.75% reduction to the clinical lab fee schedule beginning January 1 2013.
The Affordable Care Act baseline for the 2013 update to the clinical lab fee schedule will be a negative 0.75% effective January 1 2013 based upon the recently published CPI-U and productivity adjustment figures.
As part of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act the clinical lab fee schedule will be re-baselined an additional 2% lower effective January 1 2013.
Separately if mandatory sequestration is carried out we will receive a 2% payment reduction in the clinical lab fee schedule effective February 1 2013.
Together these reductions sum to an approximate annualized 4.75% total reduction to the clinical lab fee schedule which represents approximately 12% of our revenue.
On an annualized basis we estimate that these reductions will lower our 2013 EPS by approximately $0.20.
In addition to the reduction in the clinical lab fee schedule mandatory sequestration will impose a 2% reduction in the physician fee schedule effective February 1 2013.
The physician fee schedule represents approximately 2% of our total revenue.
On an annualized basis we estimate that this reduction will lower our 2013 EPS by approximately $0.02.
"Can you update us on the mix of your business coming from esoteric testing?" For the year approximately 40% of our revenues were in the genomic esoteric and anatomic pathology categories.
As we reiterated last quarter our goal is to increase our esoteric test mix to approximately 45% of our total revenue within the next 3 to 5 years.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Steve and thank you very much for listening.
We are now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess just first question.
With all the focus on volumes these days Dave do you guys have a view or what is your view toward sort of what underlying market growth is out there? I think it would be hard to characterize underlying market growth just given all of the -- actually I'd put all the different sites of care.
Obviously the market is growing more slowly than it has historically.
I'd just -- I'd be reluctant to put a specific number on it.
But my general sense from colleagues and peers is that the rate of growth has definitely slowed and that the growth rates that you're seeing from independent labs across the board is probably somewhat impacted by shifting in sites of care particularly hospital acquisitions of physicians.
So what you're seeing in terms of growth and obviously you're not seeing hospitals reporting public -- publicly reporting their lab numbers.
But what you're seeing in terms of overall market growth is somewhat impacted by just shifting in market dynamics.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
and then maybe on that topic as a follow-up since the physician employment by hospital seems to be shifting to the lab testing over what's sort of your sense -- I guess there seems to be 2 pieces of this equation here.
What's your sense of sort of where we are in that shift? But number 2 you also mentioned I think in your prepared remarks that health systems are maybe more interested in working with you or others to sort of put that testing in the most efficient setting.
So where are we on both of those sides of the equation? I think there has been really over the last couple of years a sizable movement toward hospital acquisition of physician practices and we certainly see it in the marketplace.
It started with what I would characterize as smaller practices.
And now it's probably more moved into midsize practices.
There's also a lot of consolidation going on even among physician practices.
And when physicians consolidate their practices to get scale many of them think about a physician office lab to do some on-site testing.
So that has been I would say an accelerating trend.
Is it -- I've seen numbers thrown around that say 50% of physicians work for hospitals or 50% of new physicians coming out of medical school are going to work for hospitals.
I think those numbers are on the high side.
But there's definitely movement toward more hospital or health system employed or integrated delivery network employed physicians.
And that's definitely -- it's -- that's a headwind.
It's not a gale force headwind but it's a headwind for us in terms of growth because we're seeing a shift in site of testing.
The other side of that is that shift in site of testing also brings a significant increase in cost of lab services.
And so I think over time there will be increasing pressure on the health systems to reduce the cost of lab services indeed to reduce the cost of all of their non-core services and that will be to the benefit of large independent laboratories and certainly to our benefit.
Research Division</strong> Just one clarification and then I'll hop off.
On your revenue growth guidance it was 2 to 3.
Now it's sort of 2.5.
But I know before it didn't specifically include MEDTOX.
But you do sort of include some acquisitions in there generally speaking.
SO how do you guys use the adjustment to guidance when you put those moving parts together? Tom this is Brad.
It does include MEDTOX.
I would say that given there's not far to go here in the quarter that wouldn't assume much else.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- but if we take that old 2 to 3 which didn't include MEDTOX I don't think -- and now the new 2.5 which does include MEDTOX did you shift your underlying expectations at all or how do we think about that piece of it? Yes I think if you went back and looked from the original guidance and as you say let's go back to the second quarter guidance it was 2 to 3 excluding.
If we're now 2.5 including and it's pretty easy to do the math on what MEDTOX is likely contributing about 1 point there so that 2.5 is 1.5 excluding any acquisitions any major acquisitions like a MEDTOX.
So yes I'd say we're below that 2 to 3 from the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good.
I just want to make sure there wasn't any other moving parts.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess I believe one of the comments was that the average volume per testing day was up 3%.
Can you maybe give a little bit more color around that? Yes Gary.
This is Brad.
Obviously it was driven by again MEDTOX which contributed because of the nature of that business a high amount of volume and also had a negative impact on price.
We did also say that our organic volume which would've excluded MEDTOX and Orchid was 0.5% per day in the quarter.
So that actually and Dave mentioned this in his prepared remarks that was better than what we saw in Q2 on an organic basis which was I think negative 0.5%.
But we do analyze the business on a per day basis.
It rarely makes a difference in the quarter but in the third quarter we needed to call it out.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just maybe going back to the comments and the discussion around the potential opportunities for partnerships with hospitals.
I guess there's been a discussion of this for a long time.
It sounds like it's coming to a head.
I guess could you maybe just anticipate kind of the rate with which opportunities or deals may happen or is this still something that is pretty kind of long term in nature? I think there's -- Gary it's Dave.
I think there's a much higher level of interest in collaborative models with hospitals than there has been historically.
That said these things do not move quickly.
And so when you think about when does the revenue impact come from a -- when do you sit down to start having these conversations and when is there actual revenue impact -- it's not unusual particularly if there's some kind of a joint operating model it's not unusual for transactions like this to take a year to take 18 months to come to fruition.
So in some we continue to work on I think there's a greater sense of urgency on the health systems side now.
Obviously they're looking at some payment reductions at the first of 2013.
They're looking at sequestration same headwinds that we have.
So I think I feel good about where we are in terms of capitalizing on the opportunity but they take a while to develop.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just maybe one final follow-up.
Just in terms of thinking about the structure of those partnerships would they be essentially LabCorp purchasing the business from the hospitals or would they be some kind of joint venture partnership with the hospitals? How are you thinking about that? I think there's a wide variety of options.
Historically we've had sizable lab management relationships with hospitals where we run their laboratories.
We've had sizable joint venture relationships where there's an ownership percentage that the health system owns.
And we've had outreach acquisitions as well.
So we're flexible and a lot of it depends on the needs of the health system when they -- when we sit down and talk to them.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Dave there's a lot of focus on the near term.
There's been some talk in the industry however about a kind of a long-term return to historical growth rate in the 5% to 6% range.
Is that remotely a realistic possibility now with some of the reimbursements and other challenges you face? And if so how and when do you get to that kind of an experience? Bob I still believe that in the long term we are a 4% to 6% top line growth industry and for a variety of reasons.
I mean first of all the technological developments and the advances that we're making in laboratory testing are - we say we're 3% of the spend driving 70% of the decisions.
We are increasingly becoming a smaller percentage of the spend as other expenses go up at a more rapid pace.
And yet we're driving more and more of the decisions.
And I look at things like cancer diagnostics next-generation sequencing technology for prenatal genetics and for target therapies for cancer patients.
I look at HCV and the opportunity in the HCV screening and with the new therapies that are being developed with matching HCV patients to the right therapy.
And the list just goes on and on and on in terms of where the growth opportunities are for our industry.
I don't think it's any secret that right now given a very tough economic environment and a very tough utilization environment and a lot of pressure to reduce costs we're struggling to grow as are all healthcare services businesses really.
So I'm not discouraged about the long-term as I sit and look at the things that we're working on and the opportunities that are ahead of us.
Yes I'm more encouraged than ever about the long-term and about being able to return to 4% to 6% growth.
But I think I've been pretty clear that it's not going to be next year and we should start to see some improvement in 2014 and in the years beyond.
And a lot of what we're doing in terms of capital investments and IT investments and investments in partnerships is building the platform for what -- where we think the business is going to go on in the future when we do return to that growth environment.
Research Division</strong> Do you think you're well positioned if it's this higher-end testing opportunity which I agree with you is significant but can it really offset some of the hospital insourcing and histology challenges? I mean you mentioned a few things here.
Do you have the assets in place to enable you to grow when that market does turn? Or will this be a continued focus on deals to kind of bolster your capabilities there? I think we have done a great job of building ahead.
I think if you look back a couple of years ago and think about the initiatives that we undertook I mean we've always been about efficiency in the cost structure and we've been standardized for longer than I can remember.
And when we make acquisitions we standardize them right away and we integrate them right away.
We implemented the touch system we -- for our patient service centers to not only improve the patient experience but our phlebotomy experience.
So we've made the investments in the core infrastructure Sysmex to make the labs run better and be at the right point from a cost perspective.
We're never done with that.
There's always more that one can do from a cost perspective.
On the other side of the equation where we put our capital to work when we started saying 2 years ago that we were investing in the ability to help physicians with decision support to the point of care and better test management and test selection we got some raised eyebrows because that's not traditionally been the role of the lab.
But as you think about more and more molecular testing physicians being more and more overwhelmed with test selection at the point of care my view we built exactly what we need.
We're well ahead of the market in terms of the services that we offer and something that I think in the long run really has the ability to move the needle for us.
And then the investments in things like next-generation sequencing and the investment in Genzyme Genetics and all the things we've done to enhance the test menu -- even MEDTOX which looked like a routine acquisition and in some ways is a routine acquisition has the broadest menu in the industry of esoteric toxicology which is going to become more and more important in things like clinical trials.
And I'm sure you've not missed that drug testing in sports and athletics is getting bigger and bigger.
So I think we've made all the right choices.
I think we haven't been perfect.
We've made some -- not every decision has been perfect -- but we made the right choices.
We built the right structure.
And we're where we need to be to -- when the market returns we'll be right on the front edge of the wave.
Your next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So let me just start with just one question around the organic volume.
I know that on a per diem basis organic volumes grew 0.5%.
Just that there's a lot of numbers here.
So what was the -- on an actual basis right as reported what would've been same store volume? Organic not taking into account the extra day? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Rather than trying to do this math on the phone why don't we just take this up separately? Research Division</strong> Sure.
Okay.
So then moving onto my next question when you think about the headwinds around Medicare reimbursement next year I think that based on the math that you provided us and Street numbers it's going to cost you about 3% in growth next year.
So can you talk about how you plan to offset? And I think it's built a little bit on the prior question.
But really how will you offset this headwind around reimbursement next year on the operational side? That's first.
And then second if you can give us an update just on your capital deployment strategy? I know we talked in the past about coming back to us with your plans around dividends versus buyback by year end.
Yes.
There isn't any really good way to offset $0.22 in earnings especially when it's all price-driven because remember it's just a -- it's a flat reduction to the clinical lab and the physician fee schedule.
If it all happens and this assumes that sequestration happens I think the 2.75% is in the books and that's not going to change unless Congress does something else.
But if you assume both sequestration and the 2.75% you get about $0.22 of earnings loss.
And being realistic I mean there's not a lot we can do to offset that.
We've got some favorable pricing coming from other managed care contracts.
We have some things that we can do on the cost side.
But most of that is just -- we've got to manage the business and do the best we can to find expense savings to make up for as much of it as possible.
But we're not going to make up for all of it.
That's just not realistic.
In terms of capital deployment so far this year we've returned 82% of our free cash to shareholders through share repurchase and I feel like we've done a very nice job of that over time.
We continue to study the merits of how we would allocate our capital.
Obviously continue to watch the political environment very closely because of tax rate issues that may take effect at the beginning of the year.
So we don't have a final decision yet but in the meantime we're going to continue to do what we have been doing in terms of returning value to the -- returning value and returning our cash to the shareholders.
Your next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Dave I was wondering if maybe you could just give us some thoughts about how you see the lab industry post reform.
There's a lot of questions about what the Affordable Care Organizations will look like and where lab testing will be done.
I know you talked a lot about physicians already being owned by hospitals.
But can you just talk about 2014 and where you see opportunities and maybe challenges? And then secondly can you maybe also just size the opportunities around hospital reference labs and where do you -- how big of an opportunity do you think that is? And is there any way to quantify the number of opportunities over the next couple of years? Okay.
I think it's too early to predict what 2014 is going to look like Lisa.
And I'm not trying to be elusive.
But I think there's no -- at least from what I've seen and from what we've experienced so far with ACOs there's very little commonality in the way that they're organized in the way that they're structured in their affiliations with health systems and so I think it'd be very hard to make a broad prediction about how ACOs are going to work in conjunction with labs.
I think and I won't repeat the discussion earlier on health systems and integrated delivery networks -- the need to reduce cost across-the-board.
But I think that the low-cost opportunity and the low-cost -- that the low-cost providers will have great opportunity in whatever environment health care reform ends up looking like.
The other side of that is a lot of the 2014 calculations are premised on a sizable population moving into Medicaid.
That's premised on Medicaid expansion and it's not clear that Medicaid expansion is going to occur or that it's affordable.
So I just think 2014 remains a large question mark at this point.
Research Division</strong> And then if we think though about hospital reference labs and we think about the opportunity to work together is there any way to size that opportunity for us to say okay yes there's challenges over the next couple of years reimbursement et cetera but there's x percent that you think out in the marketplace you could have a relationship with or work together to be able to replace some of that revenue and increase volume to offset some of the pressure on reimbursement? Is there a way for us to all think about that? Yes.
I think there's a lot of numbers out there about how much volume is going through hospitals how much of it is reference work versus work that has to be done in the hospitals.
I guess the numbers that I -- the single number that to me demonstrates the size of this opportunity is that according to the Medicare Trustees Report just for Medicare which is paid to hospitals at basically the same fee schedule that we get paid just for Medicare in the last Medicare Trustees Report there was over $5 billion of lab work that went through hospitals not in the DRG not in Part A but just outpatient lab work that was paid off the clinical lab fee schedule that went through hospitals.
So there's no revenue compression in that opportunity.
There's no premium pricing for hospitals.
That's just what hospitals are getting in Medicare from Medicare beneficiaries that could be redirected to independent labs that could partially be redirected toward independent labs there could be joint ventures around.
And remember that's where the cost differential was most noticeable to the health systems because they're not getting premium reimbursement.
They're not getting multiples of what independent labs are getting reimbursed.
So there's no number that I can give you that says this is what we can gain in the next 3 years or this is what we can -- this is what we'll be able to redirect.
But that's number you can look at and say there's a lot of volume going through hospitals that could be more efficiently -- that could more efficiently be performed by independent laboratories and the key is figuring out how to make the hospitals the partner in that endeavor.
Your next question comes from the line of Amanda Murphy with William Blair.
This is actually Sylvia in for Amanda this morning.
I just had a follow-up on your previous comment on HCV David.
I'm curious if you have seen any benefits of that guidance in your volume this quarter.
Or how do you expect the overall benefit or impact to your volume in a short term or longer term? I think the HCV opportunity is a longer-term opportunity.
We haven't seen anything material certainly in the quarter but the CDC recommendation is that all adults all U.S.
adults in the "baby boomer" population be screened.
The key will be to get that screening done at the primary care physician point of service because that's where the education needs to take place.
The HCV screen is not a hugely expensive test.
That's one of the nice things about it.
It's a low-cost test that can identify a long-term chronic disease with very negative health consequences.
So I think we'll see it migrate into the numbers over the next 3 years.
But I don't think you're going to see enormous jumps in HCV screening or HCV utilization in any one particular timeframe.
Okay.
Then I just had a follow-on on the next-gen sequencing panel you mentioned earlier.
Can you give us a little more color on in terms of what PC types or are you platform-agnostic at this point and do you have a preference for desktop or large box sequencers out there? At this point we're platform-agnostic and I think the determination of is it desktop or large box sequencer depends on the model and the volume expectations.
So we've actually owned a sequencing business for quite a few years now that specifically develops sequencing panels around cardiovascular disease that was built on a big box model.
But I think cardiovascular I think obviously prenatal genetics and oncology are the 3 biggest markets where we would look at the sequencing methodology.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Ellich with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First of all could you provide any color behind what was behind the lower cash flow guidance? I think in the prepared remarks you talked about the cash receipts being lower this quarter but recovering in Q4.
Just wondering also what was behind that? Yes.
Kevin this is Brad.
And it really goes back to the discussion we had earlier I think near the beginning of the Q&amp;A around the top line.
So I mean the cash flow generation I think starts with and the reduction in our guidance the numbers we've talked about about our revenue guidance now being 2.5% with a point of that being MEDTOX's.
So that's below our Q2 revenue guidance which excluded MEDTOX.
We had not closed at that time.
So it starts there and acquisitions don't contribute immediately the same kind of cash flow that our regular business does.
So I think that's the first and foremost thing behind the cash flow revision.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Appreciate that.
And then what about the cash receipts? Was that the...
Oh sorry.
Yes that was definitely a highlight for the quarter.
And as I said we expect that to turn around in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Dave adjusted operating income's been steadily declining this year obviously a challenging environment.
Just -- you guys have done a great job over the years in cutting costs.
Just wondering what can be done as we head into 2013.
It sounds like you're thinking it's going to be another tough year.
Yes.
Kevin I think that -- in some sense goes back to the question Bob asked about how we feel about the long term.
So if we believed that we're going to be in a 2% world forever then looking at geographic -- looking at lab footprint and other things would be very very high on the agenda versus if you believe you're going to return to growth.
You can cut yourself to the point where you're not ready to grow when the market returns to growth.
Given that however and given the general environment I mean we are basically reviewing every dollar of expense that we spend around here and where there are opportunities for us and that includes as I think I've said often our 3 biggest expenses are labor supplies and breadth.
So when you start looking at the expense base it's facilities it's people and it's the efficiency of your testing operation.
And we're spending a lot of time looking at things that we can do to improve the cost structure without a negative impact on customer service.
Again for all the things we've done from a cost perspective over the last 3 or 4 years we watch the customer service ratings very carefully.
And our customer service ratings that we've just received for the last quarter continue to be at all-time highs for the company.
So the last thing we want to do is cause a deterioration in service which is only going to lead to further deterioration in our growth.
Research Division</strong> Exactly.
Okay.
And then we've seen a lot of or heard a lot from the payors about narrower network use.
And then you guys are obviously the low-cost provider.
Just wondering if you've seen or do you think there will be increased activity or movement by state Medicaid programs shifting to more exclusive arrangements with low-cost providers such as yourself? I guess if I were to identify what I think is the biggest trend in state Medicaid it's managed Medicaid so it's moving completely away from the idea that the states are going to run these programs and moving them instead into programs that are run by private companies.
And it wouldn't surprise -- I mean again there you're negotiating with a private insurance company just the way you are when you're negotiating a health system -- sorry when you're negotiating a standard contract.
I wouldn't be surprised to see that continue.
Medicaid is not a -- does not pay particularly high rates Kevin.
And they pay -- there is no premium -- there is sort of no in-network -- out-of-network.
There's no premium for people who are out of network the way there are with some of the managed care plans.
SO I don't know about narrower network so much as I think about ways in which they can just reduce the overall unit cost.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Dana Vartabedian in for Darren.
Can you comment on whether or not you've experienced any sort of pricing pressure in anatomic pathology I guess especially as it relates to prostate? And if you can about how much of your pathology business does prostate represent? I don't think we've experienced pricing pressure.
As we've talked about historically the physician in-sourcing has been volume pressured.
But I don't think we've experienced pricing pressure and nothing specific with respect to prostate biopsies no.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And can you tell me about how much of the pathology business that makes up? I could not tell you off the top of my head sorry.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> A few quick questions.
Brad this is I guess the third year in a row where that 3Q tax rate is kind of lower than the other quarter.
So obviously that's starting to look like pretty recurring.
Would that be your expectation for 2013 as well? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's just seasonal state or...
Well yes Gary and it really goes back to without getting into a lot of discussion about accounting the adoption of FIN 48 which was several years ago.
It really has led to your observation.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then you guys commented that both MEDTOX and histology were the drivers of the negative aggregate revenue per requisition.
Can you quantify the MEDTOX impact on that? No.
We're just not going to break it down in that level of detail.
MEDTOX because of a lot of the routine toxicology testing employer drug testing is a lower price point than our average price point and that's why it created some drag.
Research Division</strong> And you'd said -- what about on margin you'd said 50 basis points.
I'm sorry actually you said 50 basis points from the 1 less revenue per day but you also called out MEDTOX has an impact on year-over-year margin.
Can you quantify that? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'm striking out here.
1 of 3.
You're still at the Hall of Fame numbers.
Research Division</strong> Well that was just a yes or no question.
So this last one will put me either at 250 or at the 500 I guess.
I'm going to ask you the question that investors ask me the most.
I know it's something that you've given some ongoing consideration to.
But given the environment and the lower growth rates one of the compelling characteristics of the business is the robust free cash flow generation and so over and over again investors say why not a dividend? And I guess most people would understand that the pros of giving a dividend and some of the premium valuation that's afforded the stocks that have one.
Is there -- what's the obvious stuff on the counter side to why not to institute a dividend in the future? Well I mean I think you can make a convincing argument for both sides and that's why it's not an easy answer.
If it were an easy answer it would be -- we would've answered a long time ago.
I think if I think about the reasons why one would not pay a dividend first of all we look back to the last -- just 2008 we look back at our share repurchase and the stock is up about $20 so about 30% since the beginning of 2008.
And the delta between what we've paid for the shares and the current price or the price as of the beginning of the week was another 15%.
I think on a 5-year timeframe that's a pretty impressive performance for return to shareholders based on share repurchase.
And I'm not sure that you add much to that type of performance by paying a dividend.
And I think that's the issue is the long-term.
If you look at the last year the last 2 years and where the stock has been obviously you can make an easy case to say well you would have gotten more total shareholder return out of the dividend.
But our job is to look at what's in the long-term best interest of our company and our shareholders and it's just not self-evident that companies that pay a dividend actually maintain premium pricing over time versus share repurchase or that they end up providing a greater level of return to their shareholders than companies that use share repurchase.
So those are the considerations.
And again if this were a slam dunk we would've done it a long -- we would've made our decision a long time ago.
Your next question comes from the line of Dane Leone with Macquarie Securities.
I guess the first question is you said that because of one fewer revenue day you had a 50 basis points operating margin impact.
Is that in line with the benefit that you saw in the first quarter given the extra day and due to the leap year? Or I'm just trying to reconcile that I guess so any color would be helpful.
Dane if I go back to our first quarter comments I think we said that days were approximately the same as Q1 '11.
Right.
This is revenue days as opposed to calendar days so it's just how many days of revenue do you generate and the fact that there was a leap day in the first quarter doesn't necessarily lead to an additional revenue day because if you look back at the first quarter transcript obviously we covered this where the holidays fall and where the January 1 holiday fell this year make a difference in terms of revenue days.
Got it.
Okay.
So a kind of macro question here is something that we haven't touched on yet.
But looking at the past 3 years or the last 2 years specifically '11 and year-to-date this year it's clear that there seems to be an underlying trend of lower macro utilization and we've spoken about unemployment but something that we get a lot of questions about is around the consumer-driven health plans impacting just lower macro utilization and consumers just avoiding or being more conscientious about the testing that's done in the physician office.
I'm just curious if there was any data points that you had that you either confirm deny or shed some light onto this trend as under current healthcare law or under the health care reform it seems like this trend is going to continue for some years as it relates back to the Cadillac tax that corporations are trying to avoid.
So I'm not sure if you have any data points but it would be helpful.
I think the biggest data point we have is that the percentage of our billings that end up being the responsibility of the patient continue to increase and they particularly continue to increase in the first and second quarters of the year.
So it's clear that consumer-driven health plans are causing patients to have more responsibility.
It's clear that consumer-driven health plans are dampening utilization.
Just hard to point to a statistic but just anecdotally.
I mean if you look at the Kaiser Family Foundation studies on patients people who were surveyed who have decided to forego care that's a pretty compelling statistic about what the consumer-driven health plans are doing.
I do think as we get to the next phase of the consumer-driven health plans which is pricing transparency for patients again the lower cost more efficient providers are going to benefit and that's where we'll be in an excellent position.
Your next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up question on volumes.
Just wondering if you could comment on the pacing throughout the quarter did it improve or decline when you adjust for seasonality? We don't talk about the pacing of volume within the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Foundation Medicine investment it's interesting technology obviously same timeframe and amount of uncertainty about how these tests are going to be regulated over time.
So just wondering what your expectations are for how the regulatory and reimbursement process will evolve in that market in 2013.
I think -- I don't think you'll see a lot of activity in regulatory or reimbursement with Foundation in 2013.
And obviously we're passive investors so we're not running that business.
But the reason that we invested in Foundation is because we like the technology we like the leadership we like the other investors and we think it has the potential to be where cancer diagnostics goes particularly complex diagnostics over time.
So it gives us a good opportunity to get a look at how cancer diagnostics is evolving without having to make huge capital commitments within LabCorp.
And that's the reason why we made that investment and look forward to seeing it evolve over time.
Research Division</strong> And maybe if I can be a little more specific not just on Foundation but in the category of genetic testing in general you have obviously a lot of changes being proposed through CMS and some of the parties with whom they work.
Just wondering again in general if you look at genetic testing as a category do you have a specific view on how that market will evolve? I mean that's obviously a source of potential upside just given the contribution of those types of tests to your business that's why I asked.
Yes I mean the market clearly is going to evolve toward more genetic testing through a sequencing platform which means that there's going to be considerable amount more information provided at a lower cost.
And part of the challenge is going to be the interpretation of that information by physicians who are delivering services.
But I'd just point you toward I think it was within the last 3 weeks there was an extensive article in the Wall Street Journal about the genetic research that's being done on autism and the sequencing methodology for the different academic institutions that are using sequencing methodology to try to get at the genetic as opposed to the environmental basis of autism.
There's -- this is going to be an area that's going to continue to grow.
The sequencing methodology is going to continue to grow.
We've invested in it directly in our business but we also will continue investing in it through partners.
And with that ladies and gentlemen I think we're going to wrap it up for this morning.
We appreciate your listening to our call today and hope you have a great day.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter 4 2012 Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sean and I will be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
David King Chairman and CEO.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Sean.
Good morning and welcome to LabCorp's Fourth Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Joining me today from LabCorp are: Brad Hayes Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Ed Dodson Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and Steve Anderson Vice President Investor Relations.
This morning we will discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2012 financial results provide 2013 guidance highlight our progress on our Five Pillar Strategy and provide answers to several frequently asked questions.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Steve Anderson who has a few comments before we begin.
Before we get started I would like to point out that there will be a replay of this conference call available via the telephone and Internet.
Please refer to today's press release for replay information.
This morning the company filed a Form 8-K that included additional information on our business and operations.
This information is also available on our website.
Analysts and investors are directed to this 8-K and our website to review this supplemental information.
Additionally we refer you to today's press release which is available on our website for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call to GAAP.
These non-GAAP measures include adjusted EPS adjusted EPS excluding amortization free cash flow and adjusted operating income.
I would also like to point out that we are making forward-looking statements during this conference call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results the implementation of our business strategy and the ongoing benefits from acquisitions.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect the company's financial results.
Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our 2011 10-K and will be in our 2012 10-K and subsequent filings.
The company has no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now Brad Hayes will review our financial results.
Thank you Steve.
On today's call I will review 4 key measures of our financial performance: cash flow revenue growth margin and liquidity.
I'll also provide our 2013 guidance.
First cash flow.
Our cash flow remains strong.
Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months ended December 31 2012 was $667.6 million.
Free cash flow was below our expectations as a result of lower operating cash flow and higher capital spending.
Operating cash flow was lower in part due to payment to certain key vendors to take advantage of favorable economics as well as the negative impact due to weather.
Also operating cash flow was reduced by a one-time out-of-period adjustment of $34 million related to a balance sheet reclassification between cash and accounts payable.
Without this adjustment 2012 operating cash flow would have been $875 million.
Certain capital expenditures were made in the fourth quarter to take advantage of favorable economics.
These factors are included in our 2013 guidance.
DSO was 46 days at the end of December a decrease of 2 days sequentially and flat year-over-year.
During the quarter our bad debt rate was 4.3%.
Second revenue growth.
Revenue increased 2.9% year-over-year in the fourth quarter.
During the quarter total company volume increased 2.8%.
Organic volume increased 0.7% year-over-year adjusted for the impact of inclement weather which we estimate reduced volume growth by approximately 1% during the quarter.
Revenue per requisition was essentially flat year-over-year.
Third margin.
For the fourth quarter our adjusted operating income margin was 17.2% compared to 18.9% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
We estimate that inclement weather lowered margin by approximately 80 basis points during the quarter.
Fourth liquidity.
We remain well capitalized.
At the end of December we had cash of $466.8 million and no borrowings outstanding under our $1 billion credit facility.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased $136 million of stock representing 1.6 million shares.
For the full year we repurchased $516.4 million of stock representing 5.9 million shares.
At the end of December $68 million of repurchase authorization remained under our share repurchase program.
This morning we announced that LabCorp's Board of Directors authorized a new $1 billion share repurchase program.
Further as part of our updated capital allocation strategy that we announced last month we will raise our leverage ratio to 2.5x debt to EBITDA over time.
This strategy reflects our continued commitment to return capital to and create value for our shareholders through acquisitions and share repurchase.
This morning we announced our 2013 financial guidance.
We expect revenue growth in the range of approximately 2% to 3%; adjusted EPS excluding amortization of $6.85 to $7.15 which includes a negative impact of approximately $0.35 due to Medicare payment reductions and which excludes the impact of any share repurchase activity after December 31 2012; operating cash flow of approximately $870 million to $900 million; and capital expenditures of approximately $200 million to $220 million.
Our capital expenditure guidance is higher than historical levels due to near-term investments in facility consolidation and replacement of a major testing platform.
I will now turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Brad.
We are pleased with our performance given that we continue to face a very difficult operating environment.
During 2012 we grew revenue 2.3%.
We grew adjusted EPS excluding amortization by 7.1%.
We continued to generate strong operating and free cash flow which we invested in the business and returned to shareholders through share purchase.
We repurchased $516 million of our stock representing 5.9 million of our shares.
And we kept a tight lid on expenses measurably reducing our selling general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue.
We continue to make progress on each aspect of our Five Pillar Strategy.
The first pillar of our strategy is that we deploy capital to investments that enhance our business and return capital to shareholders.
Last month we announced a target leverage ratio of 2.5x debt to EBITDA which all other things being equal we intend to achieve over time.
We expect to continue to deploy our capital toward acquisitions and share repurchase.
Over the last several years we have deployed our free cash flow almost evenly between acquisitions and share repurchase.
Going forward we would expect to deploy our free cash flow similarly.
And in the absence of sizable acquisition opportunities we anticipate deploying our additional leverage largely towards share repurchase.
The second pillar of our strategy is to enhance our IT capabilities to improve the physician and patient experience.
As planned we completed the nationwide rollout of our Beacon Patient Portal in Q4 which is now available to all patients in right-to-know states.
The portal is a secure and easy-to-use online solution that enables patients to receive and share lab results make appointments pay bills set up automatic alerts and notifications and manage health information for the entire family.
We experienced fast adoption of the portal in 2012 and are now seeing accelerated growth as we enter 2013 adding more than 1 000 new patient registrations per day.
The Patient Portal is a valuable tool that allows patients to better manage their health care and we will expand its capabilities over time.
Our electronic medical record connectivity continues to expand.
We added over 8 200 new client EMR interfaces in 2012 and we are setting the bar higher for 2013.
We remain committed to our open platform strategy allowing our customers to connect seamlessly to LabCorp directly or via the EMR of their choice.
We piloted a number of new population health analytics modules during the fourth quarter to provide health care business intelligence tools to hospitals physician practices and ACOs.
These tools assist customers in their compliance in reporting requirements with respect to efficient management of their productivity quality and patient outcome metrics.
The company's robust rules engine maintains more than 600 clinical quality measures that are highly customizable and provide full compliance with meaningful use requirements and ACO JCO and PQRS reporting requirements.
Real-time clinical alerts highlight gaps in care for patients and patient populations.
These industry-leading data-driven services position LabCorp as a trusted partner to health care stakeholders providing the knowledge to optimize decision-making improve health outcomes and reduce treatment costs.
The third pillar of our strategy is to continue to improve efficiency to offer the most compelling value in laboratory services.
During the fourth quarter we implemented our Propel robotic technology in our primary Burlington lab.
Over time we expect this technology to replace manual splitting and sorting throughout our major laboratories enhancing efficiency and increasing quality.
We look forward to providing updates on our Propel initiative over the next several quarters.
We also made significant progress in the rollout of the VANTAGE positive ID system which is now implemented in more than 90% of our core histology sites.
This system standardizes workflow eliminates waste and positively identifies specimens throughout processing.
We completed the rollout of our new handheld courier communication devices during the quarter.
This enhancement provides greater visibility into specimen collection enables more accurate route engineering and increases courier efficiency.
Finally given the persistently challenging environment we continue to review and rationalize our cost structure.
The fourth pillar of our strategy is to continue scientific innovation at reasonable and appropriate pricing.
We introduce new tests and collaborate with leading companies and academic institutions to provide physicians and patients with the most scientifically advanced testing in our industry.
During the fourth quarter we launched a program to assist clinicians in the screening assessment diagnosis confirmation and management of cardiovascular-related disorders.
The program uses LabCorp Beacon for test orders result delivery analytics and trending and a cardiovascular disease risk assessment for lipid analysis.
This decision support tool is provided by our Litholink division which focuses on chronic disease management.
As we discussed last quarter the rapid evolution of next-generation sequencing technology is enhancing our molecular diagnostics testing.
Consistent with these enhancements we are launching the GeneSeq cardio test which allows us to identify more than 90 genetic causes of familial cardiac disease through next-generation sequencing methods.
We believe that next -- that GeneSeq cardio will be a usual prognostic tool to identify positive family history and symptoms of cardiomyopathy arrhythmia aortopathy Noonan syndrome congenital heart disease and early-onset coronary artery disease.
This testing will help establish and confirm the diagnosis of familial cardiac disease and identify the need for regular cardiac screening lifestyle changes or intervention to prevent progression of cardiac complications.
Additional clinical utility could include the identification of first-degree relatives who have inherited a disease-causing genetic variant and may be at risk for myocardial infarction stroke or sudden cardiac death.
The fifth pillar of our strategy is to develop alternative delivery models.
As we have said there are fundamental changes taking place in our industry.
We see health care moving toward large health systems integrated delivery networks accountable care organizations patient-centered medical homes and mega physician practices.
We also see managed care companies organizing ACOs and buying physician practices.
Our capabilities provide an end-to-end lab solution for these customers meeting the requirements of new care models with population health management tools decision-support programs patient counseling integrated clinical reports and patient-centric data solutions.
These offerings are focused around IT but it is the completeness of our solution for lab needs that differentiates LabCorp and provides value for our customers.
Our BeaconLBS platform is a point-of-care decision-support service that interfaces with test ordering systems to help guide physicians in lab and test selection.
Physicians patients health care delivery systems and payors will benefit from this innovation which will improve quality and more effectively manage costs without disrupting physician workflow.
Our rules engine interfaces with provider and payor policies for ordering utilization adjudication and payment.
Our pilot programs are going well as BeaconLBS continues to receive high marks for its ease of use and its ability to help practices enhance patient care.
Health systems provide adequate lab services but most of these businesses make a small profit or operate at a loss.
Changes in test mix reduced reimbursement for government and private payors and cost inflation continue to pressure health systems and thus they are increasingly interested in broad collaborations.
Because of our scale we offer a broader menu of tests more affordably for patients and payors and the ability to maintain the highest levels of quality and service to health systems and the community they serve.
We will continue to pursue these collaborations to offer an enterprise-wide solution that provides health systems patients physicians and payors with the highest-quality diagnostic testing through the lowest-cost delivery model.
As health care reform continues to evolve we will continue to focus on providing all of our customers with the highest value for their laboratory spend improving quality reducing costs and improving outcomes.
In summary we are pleased with our performance and the progress we achieved on our Five Pillar Strategy this year.
Now Steve Anderson will review anticipated questions and our specific answers to those questions.
Thank you Dave.
"Can you describe the impact of Medicare payment cuts you will face in 2013?" The Affordable Care Act baseline for the 2013 update to the clinical lab fee schedule was negative 0.95%.
And the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act rebaselined the fee schedule an additional 2% lower.
These fee schedule reductions became effective on January 1 2013.
If mandatory sequestration is implemented we will receive an additional 2% reduction to the clinical lab fee schedule and a separate 2% reduction to the physician fee schedule effective April 1 2013.
We also face significant impacts as a result of a variety of other government payment reductions including the reduction to CPT code 88305 and the full year impact of the TC Grandfather Clause.
Summed together we estimate that these payment reductions will lower our 2013 EPS by approximately $0.35.
"Why is the midpoint of your initial 2013 EPS guidance approximately $0.25 below consensus?" Our guidance encompasses a wide range of potential outcomes and we are just beginning 2013.
We continue to note that the diluted share counts in analyst estimates differ considerably from our own and from each other.
In reviewing these forecasts we note that the average share count across sell-side models implies a $0.17 benefit in 2013 from share repurchase.
As we stated in our press release this morning our guidance excludes the impact of share repurchase effective after December 31 2012.
Further as I noted in my previous comments we face several Medicare reductions in 2013.
It appears that most analysts did not model the full impact of these reductions in their 2013 estimates as we projected the negative impact of the major 2013 Medicare reductions at $0.22 on our third quarter conference call $0.13 lower than the full projected impact of the 2013 Medicare reductions that we described this morning.
"Why are capital expenditures so high in 2013?" We typically spend approximately 3% of revenue on capital expenditures.
As Brad previously mentioned our capital expenditure increase in 2013 is driven by near-term investments in facility consolidation and replacement of a major testing platform.
"Can you update us on the mix of your business coming from esoteric testing?" For the year approximately 40% of our revenues were in the genomic esoteric and anatomic pathology categories.
As we reiterated last quarter our goal is to increase our esoteric test mix to approximately 45% of our revenue within the next 3 to 5 years.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Steve.
And thank you very much for listening.
We are now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess I had 2 questions.
The first one was sort of on the '13 outlook.
Obviously Medicare is a big negative.
But I'm wondering what -- if you could highlight some of the positive drivers that overcome some of the pressures on the business as you look out.
I know in the past you've talked about Genzyme and MEDTOX and [indiscernible] et cetera sort of ramping up.
Is that still the case? So if you could just explore some of the positives versus the negatives as we think about the '13 moving parts.
Tom it's Brad.
I'd like to say a couple of things to answer your question.
One is obviously we face the Medicare cuts that we described and you referred to.
Secondly we have some offset of those cuts from increases in payment from other payor types that are nongovernment.
So there's one thing that helps to offset.
We also have continued acquisition integration from Genzyme and some of the other acquisitions that we've done since that date that also help to offset.
Given the 2% to 3% top line revenue guidance we still think of it as a low organic growth environment which is what I think keeps some of the positives from offsetting the negative from the payment reduction.
And Tom it's Dave.
Just to add one further point.
We're encouraged that organic volume growth increased sequentially from 3Q to 4Q.
So we have some cautious optimism that we're going to see better organic volume growth as we go forward through 2013.
Research Division</strong> And in that 2% to 3% you mentioned Brad there's small acquisitions in there as you normally would have maybe a 0.5% or 1% or so? Not really.
I mean just the annualized impact of MEDTOX and some of the smaller ones that we did in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So nothing new or incremental that you haven't done yet in terms of top line that would add to the top line? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
That's good.
And then just I guess a big-picture question.
I don't know if you want to take a stab at it Dave.
But obviously for a lot of health care these days thinking about health care reform in 2014 and beyond has become a lot of the focus for investors.
So any updated thoughts on how reform will impact your company and your industry? Tom I think reform will be a net positive to us.
There are a lot of moving parts.
And some of them such as how will the exchanges actually work what will pricing be through the exchanges and how many states will actually participate in Medicaid expansion remain unclear at this point.
But at a high level I think we will see volume growth offset to some extent by reduced pricing on the business that is coming through the company now that is uninsured that will be subject to insurance rates and a net benefit from reduction in the bad debt rate.
So we view it as a net positive.
But again a lot of moving pieces and too early to try to even begin to quantify it.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Dave or Brad does the larger share repurchase authorization suggest any kind of moratorium on acquisitions near-term or any kind of comment on deal pricing that you're seeing? Bob it's Dave.
It does not suggest a moratorium on acquisition activity.
The pipeline remains quite active.
The share repurchase commitment and the board's endorsement of the $1 billion in share repurchase authorization reflects more our continued commitment to using share repurchase as a way to return capital to shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just another broader question who are you talking to now with your greater kind of technology and electronic connectivity that you weren't talking to previously? Is there somebody out there vastly more intrigued with your data connectivity now? Bob it's Dave.
I would say the increasing prevalence of ACOs and mega physician practice groups that are thinking about transitioning to an environment in which they either share risk or take risk has made them a lot more interested in population health management and data analytics.
Obviously a lot of people are working on population health management and data analytics.
One of the great benefits that we have is the enormous amount of information and data that we have on the unique patients that we see every year and the longitudinal database that we have on those same patients as they come back to see us over time.
So I think as we continue to see the development of ACOs the consolidation of physician practices and even the consolidation of health systems the value of those data analytics will continue to increase.
Your next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So this has been the strongest volume you have reported I think back -- if I go back since 2001.
So can you just share with us a little bit more about what's the contribution from acquisitions in the quarter? How big was MEDTOX in the numbers and if there's anything else? And then what are you seeing overall in the marketplace? Are you taking share? Or are you seeing just overall an improved environment? Ricky this is Brad.
On the volume side there's a significant contribution from MEDTOX.
We had that for a full quarter in the fourth quarter as opposed to 2/3 of the quarter in the third.
So that is a significant contributor.
But still as we look beyond that as we pointed out and Dave mentioned a second ago too adjusted for weather because that was about 1 point drag on the volume growth we still saw organic volume in the quarter of 0.7%.
And sequentially that is better than we saw in Q3 and any other quarter I believe of 2012.
So on the volume side a lot from MEDTOX but some organic there as well.
Research Division</strong> And when you think about organically are you growing with the market? Or do you think that you're taking share? Ricky it's Dave.
That's a very difficult question to answer just because it's hard to know how the market is growing.
I think we're growing with the market.
I will say we continue to see in our patient and physician satisfaction surveys very strong satisfaction with the quality of our service level.
And I think that that is a very important aspect of why organic volume has increased sequentially.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you just break down for us the weather impact of -- I think it was about $13 million to the EBIT line by cost of goods and SG&amp;A? Yes.
Ricky this is Brad.
Really when we think about the weather impact the only costs that are involved are our supply cost the direct variable cost of the testing as well as bad debt.
So the supply cost would be in cost of goods the bad debt would be in SG&amp;A.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And we can assume just the bad debt that's kind of at the corporate level? Yes.
The next question comes from the line of Gary Lieberman Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you discuss any impact at all that you've seen on the competition from the reimbursement cuts either from a business perspective or a willingness to try to go after acquisitions? Gary it's Dave.
Obviously the reimbursement impact hits all laboratories and indeed hits hospitals that perform Medicare laboratory services as well.
The biggest impact we've seen in the marketplace is in the anatomic pathology-focused specialty businesses simply because as you recognize from Steve's commentary the clinical lab fee schedule the physician fee schedule and the 88305 reduction all have a direct impact on them.
So the entire industry has been affected by this.
And I think we're seeing some of the smaller and some of the specialty players be more cognizant of the opportunity to monetize their businesses than maybe they were earlier in 2012.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just in terms of thinking about the additional leverage that you guys plan to take on.
I mean it would indicate a fairly sizable dollar amount.
So it would seem like it would leave you more than enough capital to do share purchases at at least the rate that you've been for the past year or so and also acquisitions.
So is there anything specific or general that you're thinking you're going to use it for and I guess the timing in terms of how long you think it's going to take you to increase the leverage? Obviously we don't guide to our share repurchase activity.
And so I want to make sure that nobody's interpreting this as giving guidance on our share repurchase activity.
As I said in the prepared comments if you look at the last 5 years it's been almost exactly half of our free cash flow to acquisitions and half to share repurchase.
And going forward we would expect to deploy our free cash flow similarly about half to acquisitions and half to share repurchase.
The additional leverage that we've talked about by and large and again all other things being equal in the absence of sizable acquisition opportunities we would expect the additional leverage to be deployed toward share purchase.
We don't have a specific time frame for when we would achieve the target leverage largely because going back to your last question the acquisition market is very active the environment is very fluid.
And so we're going to be strategic about how we deploy that additional leverage and how we reach the leverage point over time.
The next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> As I kind of do my math on the volume I just want to see if you agree with this.
So reported 2.8% I guess really would have been 3.8% adding back the weather.
And then you're saying 0.7% of that is organic.
So MEDTOX and other deals added about 3.1% year-over-year? Gary it's Dave.
The only observation I would make on that is -- and I don't mean to split hairs.
But some of that 1% that we lost due to weather would have been organic as well.
So your numbers are close.
I don't think there is a material difference there.
But as reported if you don't take account of that 1% then I would agree with you 0.7% organic and the rest acquisitions.
I think some of that 1% would have been driven by organic growth as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It's a fair point.
I guess what I'm interested in is you had commented that the underlying organic was better sequentially.
And I see that as well.
But shouldn't we believe that the very widespread flu activity and presumably physician office activity might have contributed to some of that sequential improvement and maybe not to read too much into that heading into '13? It's Dave again.
I mean far be it from me to suggest how you should interpret the data.
The only thing that I will say is our business is not driven by flu.
Most of the flu that we test for at all is going to be rapid point-of-care testing in patient service centers.
As you probably know most rapid flu testing is done in physician offices and is not sent out.
So my view is the flu season really doesn't have an impact a strong impact one way or the other.
But again that's my view.
And you may have a different view of how to interpret the data.
Research Division</strong> And for Brad on the amortization acceleration I assume that that's in the amortization line but that -- if we exclude that that means kind of the recurring amortization number drops to $17 million which looks low.
Is that the right quarterly run rate into '13? Gary the $6.2 million is in the number for the amortization.
And I think some things are rolling off.
So generally amortization is coming down as some things get fully amortized.
But again since that's a number that we add back for our adjusted EPS in the way we guide and the way we report it's interesting but I don't think it affects our guidance or our results.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess I'm thinking the run rate amortization has been roughly $21 million.
If we exclude the $6 million this quarter it was $17 million.
So that lower run rate it sounds like it carries into '13 because things are rolling off.
Yes.
And the only thing I'll add to that not being exactly the way to extrapolate it is as we do the acquisitions and there are adjustments to amortizations as we get final valuations and things of that nature those go into that line as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question.
I guess absent from the Medicare headwinds you outlined were some of the changes to the molecular diagnostic payments that obviously are coming out of the Palmetto fee schedule that a lot of us have been trying to compare apples-to-apples and understand what's being paid for and not paid for et cetera.
And it seems like there is a headwind there but not something that you explicitly identified today.
Do you want -- can you comment on that a little more? Gary it's Dave.
First of all as we have consistently said only about 4% to 5% of our total revenue base is impacted by the Medicare molecular Dx coding changes.
And molecular Dx is about 6% of the total revenue base.
We have been saying all along that we did not expect a material impact.
And in fact we expect these Medicare repricing and molecular codes to be a slight positive for us.
We're continuing to discuss the appropriate payment rates with our managed care partners.
And whether that's a headwind or a tailwind remains to be determined.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the 6% it includes the commercial side? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This morning Dave you talked about an increase in payment from other payors when you answered Tom's question about positives.
Can you maybe just talk about what you're seeing? We heard from your large competitor that they're actually seeing a decline and talked about a tough reimbursement environment.
So if you can give us some color as to where you're seeing some opportunities to actually increase price.
And is that actual increase in price? Or is it more of a mix issue that you're seeing? Lisa it's Dave.
Obviously the Medicare reductions are a direct price headwind so all of those go straight to price.
As Brad commented earlier we do have some price increases in other payor groups which will help offset the payment reductions.
And those consist of actual unit cost increases.
And I'm not going to go to detail about those unit cost increases.
But suffice to say they go broadly across all of our other payor groups besides government.
There also will be some benefit from test mix.
And there will be some benefit from -- if history continues to repeat some benefit from a slightly larger number of tests per requisition.
So those are the pricing aspects of what we see in 2013 that will help us to offset to some extent the Medicare headwind.
Research Division</strong> And then just in your conversations with ACOs and some of the big IDNs that you talked about as we see consolidation of health care have you had those conversations around maybe narrower lab networks or being the lab provider of choice for any of these ACOs as we move forward? We have.
I would say one of the complications is that the ACO environment is evolving quite rapidly.
So you have many large ACOs forming that that provide services to members of many different managed care plans.
And so even being the preferred lab provider obviously it doesn't mean you're going to get all of the volume.
And most of those payment rates are going to be based on managed care contracts.
I think over time as we see the evolution where ACOs and other providers are actually sharing or taking risk that's when you'll start to see much more clarity on what the impact of that transition will be on pricing.
The next question comes from the line of Amanda Murphy William Blair.
Research Division</strong> So I had a question on some commentary you made about Beacon and some of the alternative models that you're looking at pursuing.
Is there a way to think about that sort of at a high level in terms of how that might impact the P&amp;L relative to your core lab business? Is there -- would it be lower margin or higher revenue? I'm just trying to think about how that would flow through the P&amp;L specifically.
Amanda it's Dave.
I don't think we're in a position to talk about how Beacon might impact the P&amp;L because there are so many different potential ways in which BeaconLBS could be deployed.
So I think it's just too early to give a sense of what that would do from a revenue and a margin perspective.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then for the TC Grandfather I recognize that's totally not a huge impact.
But are there any lessons to be learned there in terms of how that may or may not have changed reimbursement just in terms of having to deal with a hospital directly versus what you were billing to a payor before? Well I think it's -- I think it would be self-evident that the rates that we receive when we bill the government are really not negotiated rates.
They're rates that are provided in the fee schedule.
Anytime that we deal with nongovernment payors we typically have a negotiation.
So I don't know that there are any lessons to be learned.
The TC Grandfather was a long-standing provision of law that Congress opted to change.
And again I think it reflects a broader movement in the marketplace where the government fee-for-service environment is migrating more towards either direct relationships with other payors or towards managed government beneficiaries and dealing with them in a managed rather than a fee-for-service environment.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess I was -- the reason for the question was can we extrapolate anything from that to -- if the world moves more towards an ACO-type model where the -- I guess your customer becomes a provider versus the payor is there anything that we can extrapolate from that experience? Or is it just too specific? That was really the point of the question I suppose.
I think that -- again I think it's very early to try to think about what would happen as you move toward a more comprehensive let's call it ACO health system environment.
But we negotiate with the payors we negotiate with other providers who want to use our services.
And I think that will continue to be in 80% of our business that will be the model.
There will be negotiated rates of payment for services provided and for other services like BeaconLBS or data analytics or population health management.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one last one.
You had mentioned something about having to reinvest in a testing platform.
Could you just provide a little more color around what that is exactly? Yes.
Without giving you a lot of specifics we have a testing platform that had reached its -- the expiration of kind of its natural life and is not going to be supported anymore.
It's a sizable platform and we have to replace the instruments basically in all of our laboratories.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is that something to be -- from a risk standpoint that could be an issue? Or is this just -- I'm sure you've counted [ph] these replacements before.
Yes.
I mean this is a 10-year-old system that just we need to upgrade.
From a risk perspective I don't think it entails an unusual amount of risk.
We go through system replacements frequently and we do them on a rolling basis so that we don't disrupt workflow.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Ellich Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Dave just wanted to go back to the volume growth in Q4.
How much growth are you guys getting from number of tests per requisition and mix shift to higher acuity tests? And also what about partnerships like with Ariosa Diagnostics? How much contribution did you guys see to the top line and volume from that? Kevin it's Dave.
I don't think it benefits us to break down every single component of volume growth.
So I will say that test per requisition is a slight help on a comparative 2012 to 2011 basis but it's not -- it doesn't change from 3Q to 4Q.
We have gotten some nice top line growth from Ariosa which is the noninvasive prenatal screening test.
But again that's what we do.
We introduce new tests that are scientifically innovative cutting-edge and provide better and in this case less invasive patient care.
And so it's our expectation that that's part of our growth over time.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful Dave.
And then kind of going back to one of the earlier questions on ACOs.
You talked about alternative delivery models in your prepared remarks.
Just wondering how the discussions are going with hospitals and other providers.
And any developments or updates from Adam's efforts since he's been with the company? Well I think Adam has been terrific.
But Adam is part of a very large team of people at LabCorp who are working on enhancing our hospital presence.
And I'm not going to call the names of every single one of them on the call.
But we have a very robust hospital business already and everybody's working to grow it.
I think we've had very constructive discussions with a number of health systems about a broad range of relationships going from reference testing to lab management to joint operating and joint equity ventures.
And we will continue to push forward with that initiative.
And I expect it to pay significant benefits as we come out of 2013 and go into 2014 in terms of revenue and volume growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last quick thing here Dave.
Brad talked about facility consolidation with the higher CapEx.
I'm just wondering how much -- is that enough to move the needle with some of the operating costs? It looks like you've done a good job of keeping a tight lid on expenses as you always do.
Just wondering how much more we could see in 2013.
The facility consolidation by its nature is time-consuming.
It's not just a question of moving a facility from one place to another because we have instrumentation we have interfaces we have to make sure that the customers are receiving the same level of service.
So there is opportunity around facilities.
And I put that into 2 categories.
One is planned consolidations for acquisitions where we know that over time we have a plan to reduce or consolidate space.
And the other is a comprehensive review of our existing footprint and what are ways in which we can deploy it better.
And this the particular investment that we spoke about in facility consolidation falls under the latter category where we're looking at our existing footprint and we are consolidating we will be consolidating multiple facilities into 1 facility during 2013.
And we will continue to look at that.
Again very hard to put a specific cost number on it Kevin.
But what I would say is without a lot of fanfare around here every year we reduce costs by $45 million $50 million.
And that's just part of our business it's part of what we do and it's going to continue to be part of what we do.
Your next question comes from the line of A.J.
Rice UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions hopefully.
Just first of all I know you were giving that comment last quarter pretty early and I applaud you for just even making a guess at it.
But you said $0.22 last quarter for the Medicare headwind and now it's $0.35.
And I just was trying to understand what is the clarification or the change in thinking that happened that resulted in the $0.35.
A.J.
this is Brad.
I think the major difference as we look at the $0.22 from Q3 and the $0.35 that we've updated now for our 2013 outlook is the 88305 which we did not know about at the time.
The full impact -- the full year impact of the TC Grandfather change which we did not consider in the $0.22 and a few other changes that are related to all the government changes and reductions in payment and that is the difference.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then another a sort of broader question on the pricing trend.
Is there anything -- when you step back and look at the aggregate business payor mix is that the places -- the different sources of payors? Is that changing and having an impact on pricing if you look at '12 versus '11 and maybe your expectation for '13? A.J.
it's Brad again.
The biggest change I can think of that we see in that is mostly as a result of acquisition.
So if I think about MEDTOX for example that's hitting in the client or direct to the company sort of billing which is typically lower nature in price.
I think beyond that and some of the other things that we've done in the past few years clinical trials-related are also showing up in that same area.
If I take those things away I don't see a major shift going on between the payor mix schedules especially on a year-over-year basis.
We can see some variations in quarters and sequential views and things of that nature but no real change in -- dramatic change in capitation or managed care fee-for-service patient the other categories that come to mind.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's good.
And then just a last question on -- I appreciate the comments on health reform.
I wondered specifically about the exchanges.
Do your contracts with commercial payors' managed care today date just automatically apply to those people that are on the exchanges? Or do you have to go out and negotiate new contracts for those new health plans that -- maybe with payors you have current contracts with? And if so have you had any early discussions and any sense that the exchange-related patients may get  -- may be priced somehow differently or set up differently? A.J.
it's Dave.
It's a great question and I wish there were a clear answer that we could give you.
I think the way that the exchanges are going to operate is still very unclear.
And so we have had many conversations with our managed care partners about how the exchanges are going to work.
And I think they are as uncertain as we are.
So I think that the best we can give you is we're in frequent and detailed discussions.
But it's not clear what the outcome will be from a pricing or an offering perspective.
Your next question come from the line of Darren Lehrich of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just ask a couple of things here.
First as it relates to buyback I understand you're not going to guide us on the cadence of your buyback et cetera.
But just curious just given the size of it will -- should we expect anything different as it relates to how you approach it? In other words historically we've seen more opportunistic buybacks in the quarter.
Do you think you might do some larger fuller purchase agreements? Just structurally how are you thinking about the buyback given the size that you've announced here? Darren it's Dave.
I think the share buyback has been an extremely important way of returning capital to shareholders.
And I think over time we've done a very good job of doing it in a disciplined way that has created a lot of value.
That's our goal.
That's what we're going to continue to do.
Beyond that we are not going to guide to how we're going to do it structurally or otherwise other than to say that this is the way we return capital to shareholders we're committed to it and we're going to continue to do that.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Okay that's fair.
And then I guess just on the cash flow outlook.
Brad it seems like you maybe pull a little bit more of working capital from the 2012 period.
It sounded like maybe this inventory build around some vendor discounts that you got.
I'm curious just why the cash flow outlook for '12 -- or '13 rather wouldn't reverse that.
Is there anything else in working capital that we ought to be thinking about for '13? Not specifically in working capital.
I mean I think about the other things related to earnings that we talked about.
The payment reductions are obviously a headwind for the cash flow.
And then just generally speaking the growth environment.
I think again back to our comments of most of the growth driven by the MEDTOX acquisition in '13 that's in our range I think it's just the muted earnings growth environment and the payment reductions are the only thing that come to mind specifically and nothing really in the other areas of working capital.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just so I'm clear.
Severance and other restructuring is excluded from that outlook or contemplated in it? It's excluded from both the EPS so we don't project in our guidance at all any sort of restructuring activities.
And therefore it's also not considered for the cash flow guidance either.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But given some of the ongoing nature of what you're describing in terms of cost reductions and consolidations what would be a rough cash impact from that in '13 any range you'd put on it? No I wouldn't want to estimate it because again it has a lot of things that it depends on as we execute on these things.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then just last thing is really around margins and what's sort of baked into your guidance.
Implicitly it does assume margin improvement just if you take midpoints and walk it up from the EPS line.
I guess Dave you made the comment that you're taking $50 million of costs out per year and you've already commented about some managed care pricing that you'll be able to benefit from.
I guess just given the environment and the growth of what we're seeing here is there anything else that we ought to be considering in terms of your margin outlook that would get us to an improvement my math close to 1 point of year-over-year improvement in margin? Obviously the major swing factors Darren on margin are volume price and expenses.
So how we do on volume will have an impact on where we end up in the margin range.
The pricing that we believe that we will encounter in 2013 have an impact on that margin range.
And the facility consolidation the cost reductions that we've talked about and of course other cost reductions that we do on a regular basis those are the 3 major factors.
But I don't -- and I guess actually the fourth thing is just the continued integration of acquisitions and the ability to reduce costs in MEDTOX and continue to reduce the cost base in Genzyme.
Those are the major things that are incorporated in the guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just maybe wanted to touch on the organic volume trend this quarter when you adjust for Sandy.
Was there anything else in there? You mentioned flu being sort of not that important.
But maybe deductibles are another item there that helped the business sequentially? No I think what helped the business sequentially is that more people came to our patient service centers.
I mean we had a -- in our view we had a strong organic volume growth in a quarter that typically is not one of our stronger growth quarters.
So we're pleased with it.
And I don't know that there's anything we can do to kind of break it down into bits and pieces.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the testing platform switch there.
Is there an opportunity for you guys to maybe get better pricing terms or upgrade the technology you are using in a material way? And I'm just trying to put that into context as to how important that is for the overall business how sizable it is.
There's a -- whenever we switch out a testing platform it is to improve technology.
And in almost every case it's to reduce expenses.
And so in this case the change in the testing platform will have both impacts although obviously there is a capital component that comes back as an expense once it's deployed into service.
And Isaac this is Brad.
I would add that because of our standardization and the way we go about this from a supply chain perspective we do the whole network at one time not on the same day but we make the decision and it applies to the entire network.
It takes some time to roll it out.
But we think by approaching it that way we are able to get the best economics on those kinds of activities.
Research Division</strong> And can you maybe offer some color as to what type of a testing platform it is.
Is it routine testing or molecular? I'm just trying to get a sense of how important this is to the business mix.
No we're not going to give any color on what platform it is.
So it's 10:00 and I'm going to -- we're going to try to take a couple more questions.
But let us please try to limit it to 1 question so that everybody has a chance.
Your next question comes from the line of Glen Santangelo from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if I could just maybe follow up on that previous sort of EBIT question.
It kind of feels like if I look over the last 6 months your operating profit was shrinking a little bit by about maybe 3% sort of year-over-year in the second half of '12 if I normalize for Sandy.
And then if I kind of take into account what you're telling us in terms of guidance it feels like you're looking for a 1% to 2% increase in your operating profit this year.
And Dave I heard you just talk about the drivers.
Maybe if you can give us a little bit more clarity about what you think you can do on the expense reduction side so we can maybe back into kind of what you're implying in terms of vols and pricing? Glen it's Brad.
Are you talking about absolute dollars or on a margin basis? Research Division</strong> On a dollars basis.
Okay.
Because I can see that but I couldn't get to on the margin side what your question was.
So Glen it's Dave.
I think as I've mentioned and I'm not sure that I can say it in a different way from what I've said before we have some opportunities around the acquisition integration.
We have some opportunities around the consolidation of facilities.
And we always are working on cost reductions across the organization with SG&amp;A this year being a prime example.
So I can't really give you much more than what I've said before which is these are the expense opportunities and the expense reduction opportunities that we're always looking at.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
Maybe if I could just ask one quick one on the anatomic pathology side.
You talked about obviously the major cut in your sort of prepared remarks.
Could you give us your updated view maybe on this trend of physician in-sourcing of these tests? Do you see it moderating at all? Or with the reimbursement cut do you think it reverses over time this trend? I do think that the reduction in the technical component of 88305 will discourage physician in-sourcing because it becomes considerably less of a profit center.
But again the impact the reduction only occurred on January 1 so it's really too early to call it a trend.
Your next question comes from the line of Dane Leone from Macquarie.
A quick one for me.
You kind of always highlight some new tests that you have in the pipeline in your the outlook.
I think it would be helpful if you could just give some color going into '13 on expectations for new products to add to the growth of the franchise.
I know you don't really break it out specifically.
But any type of characterization you can give this year versus last year any real impact towards the growth of the esoteric mix overall would be helpful.
Yes.
I think the Ariosa test will be a significant contributor the noninvasive prenatal screening test.
I think that we're going to continue to see some growth in specialized testing around hepatitis C as more of these compounds are successful and come to market and there are tests associated with the efficacy of the new compounds.
I think that the next-generation sequencing and the cardio seq will continue to grow.
I also think that even though it would not be described by itself as esoteric I think that the chronic kidney the cardiovascular the bone all of the services that we've launched through Litholink that help physicians manage patients will continue to see nice growth there.
So there are a lot of things that obviously I have not mentioned but those are probably some of the highlights for where we think we'll see growth in new tests in 2013.
Okay.
And for context is there a hurdle rate where you'd consider something an impactful contributor generally speaking of a new test or growth of a test? I think the reality is that most tests -- most new tests that we introduce are relatively specialized and meet needs of a certain physician community or a certain part of the clinical community.
So for us the hurdle rate is is there an unmet need in the population is this something that's going to be helpful to clinicians will it give us the ability to better diagnose and treat disease? Obviously we want to be financially successful with these tests but it would be unrealistic to say there has to be a financial hurdle rate for everything that we launch.
I would now like to turn the call over to David King for closing remarks.
Thank you Sean.
Thank you everyone for attending our Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Call today and we hope you have a great day.
Thank you for joining today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2013 Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Janine and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
David King Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to LabCorp's First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Joining me today from LabCorp are Brad Hayes Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Ed Dodson Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and Steve Anderson Vice President Investor Relations.
This morning we will discuss our first quarter 2013 financial results reaffirm our 2013 guidance highlight our progress on our Five Pillar Strategy and provide answers to several frequently asked questions.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Steve Anderson who has a few comments before we begin.
Before we get started I would like to point out that there will be a replay of this conference call available via the telephone and Internet.
Please refer to today's press release for replay information.
This morning the company filed a Form 8-K that included additional information on our business and operations.
This information is also available on our website.
Analysts and investors are directed to this 8-K and our website to review this supplemental information.
Additionally we refer you to today's press release which is available on our website for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call to GAAP.
These non-GAAP measures include adjusted EPS adjusted EPS excluding amortization free cash flow and adjusted operating income.
I would also like to point out that we are making forward-looking statements during this conference call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results the implementation of our business strategy and the ongoing benefits from acquisitions.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect the company's financial results.
Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our 2012 10-K and subsequent filings.
The company has no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now Brad Hayes will review our financial results.
Thank you Steve.
On today's call I will review 4 key measures of our financial performance: cash flow revenue growth margin and liquidity.
I will also reaffirm our 2013 guidance.
First cash flow.
Our cash flow remains strong.
Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months ended March 31 2013 was $661.2 million.
DSO at the end of March was 50 days an increase of 2 days year-over-year.
During the quarter our bad debt remained 4.3%.
Second revenue growth.
Revenue increased 1.2% year-over-year in the first quarter.
On a per-day basis revenue increased 2.9% year-over-year.
During the quarter total company volume increased 1.1% or 2.7% on a per-day basis.
We estimate that inclement weather reduced volume growth by approximately 50 basis points during the quarter and that excluding weather organic volume was flat year-over-year.
Revenue per requisition increased 20 basis points year-over-year.
Third margin.
For the first quarter our adjusted operating income margin was 18.7% compared to 19.9% in the first quarter of 2012.
The year-over-year margin decline was primarily due to the impact from weather Medicare payment reductions and the number of days in the quarter.
Fourth liquidity.
We remain well capitalized.
At the end of March we had cash of $185.8 million and $30 million of borrowings outstanding under our $1 billion credit facility.
During the first quarter we repurchased $113.9 million of stock representing 1.3 million shares.
At the end of March $954.1 million of repurchase authorization remained under our share repurchase program.
This morning we reaffirmed our 2013 financial guidance.
We expect revenue growth in the range of approximately 2% to 3%; adjusted EPS excluding amortization of $6.85 to $7.15 which includes a negative impact of approximately $0.35 due to Medicare payment reductions and which excludes the impact of any share repurchase activity after March 31 2013; operating cash flow of approximately $870 million to $900 million; and capital expenditures of approximately $200 million to $220 million.
Our capital expenditure guidance is higher than historical levels due to near-term investments in facility consolidation and replacement of a major testing platform.
I will now turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Brad.
We are pleased with our performance given the health care services utilization environment.
During the first quarter of 2013 we grew revenue approximately 3% on a per-day basis and we grew volume 2.7% on a per-day basis.
We generated strong operating cash flow of $198.2 million.
We generated free cash flow of $156.5 million which we invested in the business and returned to shareholders through the repurchase of $114 million of our stock representing 1.3 million shares.
And we continue to take keep a tight lid on expenses.
We continue to make progress on each aspect of our Five Pillar Strategy.
The first pillar of our strategy is that we deploy capital to investments that enhance our business and return capital to shareholders.
The integration of MEDTOX continues to go well and has exceeded our expectations.
This acquisition provides us with an excellent opportunity to diversify our payor and testing mix and we remain excited about the opportunity to grow MEDTOX's specialized toxicology testing.
Last quarter we announced a target leverage ratio of 2.5x debt to EBITDA which all other things being equal we intend to achieve over time.
We expect to continue to deploy our capital toward acquisitions and share repurchase.
Over the last several years we have deployed our free cash flow almost evenly between acquisitions and share repurchase.
Going forward we would expect to deploy our free cash flow similarly and in the absence of sizable acquisition opportunities we anticipate deploying our additional leverage towards share repurchase.
The second pillar of our strategy is to enhance our IT capabilities to improve the physician and patient experience.
Our Beacon Patient Portal is now available to all patients in right-to-know states and we continue to see accelerated growth in patient registrations adding more than 1 000 new registrations per day.
The Patient Portal is a valuable tool that allows patients to better manage their health care and we will continue to add valuable content and information to the Patient Portal over time.
Our electronic medical record connectivity continues to expand and we are on pace to exceed last year's record number of new client EMR interfaces.
We remain committed to our open platform strategy allowing our customers to connect seamlessly to LabCorp directly or via the EMR of their choice.
We continue to pilot a number of new population health analytics modules that provide health care business intelligence tools to hospitals physician practices and ACOs.
These tools assist customers in their compliance and reporting requirements with respect to efficient management of their productivity quality and patient outcome metrics.
These industry-leading data-driven services position LabCorp as a trusted partner to health care stakeholders providing the knowledge to optimize decision-making improve health outcomes and reduce treatment costs.
Looking ahead we will continue to add new analytic offerings at the point of lab order and during result delivery to enhance the physician experience and improve patient care.
The third pillar of our strategy is to continue to improve efficiency to offer the most compelling value in laboratory services.
During the first quarter we continued the ramp-up of our Propel robotic technology in our primary Burlington lab.
This pilot program is nearing completion and our initial results have exceeded expectations from a throughput and quality perspective.
We expect this technology to replace much of the manual splitting and sorting process throughout our major laboratories enhancing efficiency turnaround time and quality.
We are finalizing our implementation plans for the balance of 2013 and we look forward to providing updates on this initiative over the next several quarters.
We are constantly monitoring and evaluating our supply chain operations and we are focused on laboratory consolidation initiatives.
We will begin these projects during the second half of 2013 and we anticipate deriving ongoing savings from consolidation activity.
We will also roll out a new chemistry platform later this year.
This platform has enhanced software capabilities that will increase throughput capacity and lower supply costs in our chemistry testing.
We expect the full implementation to take 18 months.
Finally we continue to review and rationalize all components of our cost structure.
The fourth pillar of our strategy is to continue scientific innovation at reasonable and appropriate pricing.
We introduce new tests and collaborate with leading companies and academic institutions to provide our physicians and patients with the most scientifically advanced testing in our industry.
Last May we announced our collaborative relationship with Ariosa to offer the Harmony Test.
Harmony is an innovative noninvasive test for detection of common fetal trisomies.
It is based on the sequencing and bioinformatics analysis of cell-free DNA in maternal blood.
The American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics recently noted this innovative technology allows patients the option of noninvasive fetal aneuploidy screening and that the analysis of cell-free fetal DNA in maternal circulation for fetal aneuploidy screening is likely the first of major steps toward the eventual application of whole fetal genome whole fetal exome sequencing.
We share this view and are pleased with our Harmony volumes which indicate strong support from this test among physicians.
Further we are encouraged by the favorable coverage policies issued on Harmony by our key managed care partners.
Monogram Biosciences a LabCorp specialty testing company recently began offering the GenoSure PRIme assay the first assay to provide a comprehensive assessment of drug resistance for the most widely used antiretroviral drug classes.
GenoSure PRIme specifically complies with the DHHS treatment guidelines issued last month that strongly recommend the inclusion of integrase inhibitor resistance testing in cases of treatment failure and in cases of newly identified infections where there is concern that an integrase inhibitor-resistant strain may have been transmitted.
During the first quarter we also announced our expanded services for inflammatory bowel disease.
Gastrointestinal tract disorders are often presented with nonspecific symptoms and are difficult to diagnose especially in primary care settings.
We launched an expanded IBD testing profile that helps to identify IBD patients and differentiate between ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease.
These enhancements to LabCorp's IBD test menu are adjuncts to our broader offering of digestive disease testing that includes cost-efficient cascade testing to help physicians diagnose irritable bowel syndrome and non-celiac gluten sensitivity.
The fifth pillar of our strategy is to integrate our offerings into emerging health care delivery models.
As we have said previously health care delivery systems are changing.
We continue to see the industry evolve toward accountable care organizations integrated delivery networks patient-centered medical homes and mega physician practices.
Managed care companies continue to promote organized ACOs and buy physician practices.
Payors and providers will increasingly move to a risk-driven model focused on and paying for cost-effective care that delivers the best possible outcomes.
LabCorp is well positioned to support this transformation in health care.
Our strategy to become a knowledge partner has spurred the development of enhanced services and capabilities including BeaconLBS Litholink clinical decision support and enhanced IT tools.
We are now combining existing BeaconLBS point-of-order decision-support Litholink point-of-results decision-support and comprehensive clinical analytics to provide physicians with knowledge-based patient management tools and a comprehensive view of the patient's care and clinical history.
We will use all of these capabilities to provide critical insights to support diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for the patient's clinical condition.
Our highly successful kidney stone bone assessment cardiovascular risk assessment and chronic kidney disease management programs are examples of the first of many LabCorp knowledge offerings that improve the delivery outcomes and cost of health care.
The critical components of success in the post-reform era will be quality cost and a role in improving patient outcomes.
LabCorp is uniquely positioned to meet these needs in the months and years to come.
In summary we are pleased with our performance and the progress that we achieved on our Five Pillar Strategy this quarter.
Now Steve Anderson will review anticipated questions and our specific answers to those questions.
Thank you Dave.
"Can you describe the impact of Medicare payment cuts in 2013?" The Affordable Care Act baseline for the 2013 update to the clinical lab fee schedule was negative 0.95%.
And the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act re-baselined the fee schedule an additional 2% lower.
These fee schedule cuts -- reductions became effective on January 1 2013.
Due to mandatory sequestration we received an additional 2% reduction to the clinical lab fee schedule and a separate 2% reduction to the physician fee schedule effective April 1 2013.
We are also experiencing a variety of other government payment reductions including the reduction to CPT code 88305 and the full year impact of the TC Grandfather clause.
Summed together we continue to estimate that these payment reductions will lower our 2013 EPS by approximately $0.35.
"Why are capital expenditures expected to be so high in 2013?" We typically spend approximately 3% of revenue on capital expenditures.
As Brad previously mentioned our capital expenditures increase in 2013 is driven by near-term investments in facility consolidation and replacement of a major testing platform.
"Can you update us on the mix of your business coming from esoteric testing?" For the year approximately 40% of our revenues were in the genomic esoteric and anatomic pathology categories.
As we reiterated last quarter our goal is to increase our esoteric test mix to approximately 45% of our revenue within the next 3 to 5 years.
Now I'd like to take -- turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Steve and thank you very much for listening.
We are now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> It looked like the accounts receivable did rise a bit more expected on a slightly lower revenue base.
Any dynamic going on there? Hey Bob this is Brad.
Just some timing of payments in one of our international businesses specifically.
And I think the typical in the first quarter more going to patients in the form of co-pays and deductibles slowed things down a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just the pace of M&amp;A Dave it's slowed down here a bit of late.
Is this just the kind of the eye before the storm? Or what do you anticipate over the remainder of the year from a transaction standpoint? Bob I think the pace continues to be about the same in terms of opportunities that are available.
We've looked at quite a few things a number of them we don't like the valuations and so we're biding our time and waiting for things to come along where we think the valuations are more reasonable for us.
But there are still a lot of opportunities in M&amp;A and we continue to be focused on doing the right deals that will be accretive that will give us the target return on invested capital and that will contribute to long-term growth.
And I would say we think of MEDTOX as a terrific example of doing all those things.
Accretive good ROIC long-term growth and expanding our capabilities and further diversification of our payor mix.
Research Division</strong> And anecdotally on the MEDTOX Dave what's left to accomplish there from a consolidation standpoint? There are still some integration and standardization activities particularly around platforms reagents and supplies.
But the bulk of the work has been done.
It's been a great team effort between the LabCorp team and the old MEDTOX team.
And we're very pleased with the way that business has not only maintained the pace at which we acquired it but has grown.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess just first on the volumes.
Still good compared to some but maybe a little bit lower than what you saw in the second half of last year from an organic standpoint.
Do you have any thoughts about what we're seeing in terms of overall industry trend? Is there any sense that maybe the higher co-pays and deductibles that you mentioned a second ago Brad are they getting that much higher this year versus last year that maybe we're seeing a skewing of the seasonality a little bit in terms of when people are going to use health care? Or any thoughts you have about that would be interesting.
Tom it's Dave.
I think you've identified a couple of the major factors here.
So if you look sequentially at organic volume growth last year other than the first quarter which was a little bit of an oddity because of the year-over-year comp and the lack of weather basically was 50 basis points in the third quarter 70 basis points in the fourth quarter and now we're back to essentially flat.
And I'd attribute it to a couple of things.
One there is more patient responsibility.
There is more going toward patient.
We actually saw a little uptick in uninsured volume in the first quarter as well.
And then the last thing I would say is the overall utilization environment just what I'm seeing in terms of others reporting whether it's hospitals other health care services companies does seem to have ticked down a little bit in the first quarter and that's what I attribute probably the bulk of the difference between the fourth quarter organic growth and the first quarter organic growth.
But we're doing the same things.
I think we're executing well on our strategic priorities and again I think this is a very solid result in terms of what we see in the environment around us.
Research Division</strong> Can you just remind us what is the sort of percent of your business that's uninsured at this point? Tom I think it's about 7% of our revenue plus or minus in that range.
That's right 7%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Dave I think in your prepared remarks you mentioned some of the analytics tools that you're working with out there with some of the customers.
Is this something that you get paid for separately? And if so how? Or is it something more that's an additive benefit of doing business with you and it's ultimately more of a volume driver? At this point because we're in pilots with a couple of sizable IPAs and physician groups we are not getting paid separately for the analytics tools.
What we are doing is in my view demonstrating our ability to integrate clinical data with lab data and then provide analytics to physicians that will support improved outcomes and better care.
I think over time the development of the payment model around the analytics and the integration of clinical data will occur and it remains to be seen how we will be compensated for that.
But I think it's a very important value-added services -- service.
It's a key component of our strategy.
And I'm very pleased with where we are on it today given how hard we've been working on it for the last 1.5 years.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess with regards to pricing can you talk about what you're seeing on that front? One of your competitors has talked about continued pressure and expecting pressure to continue through at least the next year.
Can you give your perspective on that please? Yes Gary this is Brad.
When we look at our price and what makes it up there are a lot of variables.
One is obviously the contractual agreements with commercial payors.
We've talked about the government payment reductions.
And then we get some changes also related to our payor mix our test mix the number of tests per requisition and even some of our international businesses.
So we look at all that and how it ends up for the quarter and we're pleased with our price.
We think it demonstrates that we've exercised some pricing discipline.
And yes to your point pricing is always under pressure.
But we're pleased with our result and can't really speak to others.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as you head into 2014 with reform can you give us your thoughts maybe around any volume benefit you would expect to get or other changes that you might expect in the business because of reform? Gary it's Dave.
I think reform will be a net positive.
I will say there are many many moving pieces in that -- in the calculation of how we will benefit.
So you have to make some assumptions about how many people will actually be insured or be added to Medicaid and so there are -- you got to make some assumptions about the exchanges.
You have to make assumptions about Medicaid expansion.
You have to make assumptions about state versus federal exchanges.
So you have to make some assumptions about coverage.
You have to make some assumptions about pricing.
You have to make some assumptions about the number of encounters per patient per year.
You have to make some assumptions about how much bad debt reduction there will be the consequence of more people being covered with insurance.
When you put all of those assumptions together as best as we can see it now we expect there will be a volume benefit for us and we expect that there'll be a benefit from bad debt reduction at the end of the day.
So all in all we view reform as -- under I think some fairly conservative assumptions we view reform as a net positive.
And obviously the more people who get insured the more utilization particularly around preventive care from the newly insured the more the benefit to the lab industry.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any thoughts on trying to quantify that even very broadly in terms of the benefit? I think it's just there are just too many moving pieces to try to quantify it at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First question is just a clarification on the same-store growth number.
I mean obviously Dave you talked about flat volumes.
But can you also give us the context of volumes in light of the day count? Because I think the organic number that you are giving us does not include the benefit from the days in the quarter.
Is that correct? No that's incorrect Ricky.
This is Brad.
We have taken the day into account when talking about our organic volume experience.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So can you just help me bridge that? Because you're starting -- if you can help with the reporting number and what acquisitions added.
And were there additional acquisition aside from MEDTOX in that number? Right.
So we reported the 1.1.
The day is 1.6% because we reported the per-day volume also of 2.7%.
So add back weather 0.5% you get to 3.2%.
And then we're saying organic was flat which means that acquisitions were the delta.
MEDTOX is the majority of that experience.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's a majority of the benefit for the volume.
And is it also -- does it carry a lower price per acquisition? Does it -- is it a headwind to price? Right.
That's exactly right.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then Dave can you just give us some color on what type of conversations you're having in Washington these days? And when do you expect to see an updated lab fee schedule and the timing of any other data points that you are waiting for from Washington or CMS? Well we're having a lot of conversations in Washington these days on a number of fronts because as you know there are a number of fairly pressing issues.
One is the suggestion in the President's budget that there be further fee schedule reductions I believe beginning in 2015 to our fee schedule.
And the -- pointing out to the legislative and executive branch the amount by which our fee schedule has already been reduced in the last 5 years and the inequity of -- and will be reduced in the next couple of years and the inequity of continuing to make reductions.
Second particularly conversation with CMX (sic) [CMS] about the molecular coding issues that are significantly affecting some of the clinical laboratory industry particularly those that are innovating around the area of molecular diagnostics.
And then the general discussion of the value the great value proposition that the laboratory industry brings and the importance of maintaining appropriate levels of payment so that not only the large players but also those who serve the niches and the smaller laboratories will continue to provide beneficiary access and critical services for Medicare and Medicaid patients.
So I don't think we're expecting any major updates to the fee schedule but we continue to be very very very much engaged at both the legislative and the executive level in discussing all of these important issues for our industry and for patients and for health care services in general.
Research Division</strong> And does -- from time to time we're getting asked about the lab co-pay.
Is that something that still comes up in your conversations? Or do you think that that's more in the back burner now? The general topic of a co-pay comes up more in discussions of the idea of a unified Part A and Part B co-pay than it does specifically with the lab co-pay.
And I would say that's still very much a topic under discussion.
Obviously we continue to believe that a lab co-pay is not a saving to the government it's a shift in cost from the government to Medicare beneficiaries and that it will have the perverse effect of actually reducing people getting the services they need and presenting to physicians in emergency rooms much more acutely and therefore costing the system money at the end of the day.
So we have those discussions.
I wouldn't say this is a front burner issue but it's -- there are still discussion of it in Washington and particularly among the policy people.
Your next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Dave you talked earlier about some improved efficiencies around lab consolidation activities et cetera.
Is there a way for you or Brad to quantify what those potential cost savings could be? Lisa it's Dave.
I think it's early for us to quantify that.
So we will at an appropriate time but now is not the appropriate time.
Research Division</strong> Do you expect that it would be a material number? Or do you just think that this will be something that will offset inflationary kinds of cost? I'm hesitant to put a number on it for the reasons I just stated.
I will repeat what I think I said on our last call which is without a lot of fanfare at LabCorp we're consistently working on the cost structure.
We're consistently taking out enough costs to make sure that we deliver great value to our shareholders and we're going to continue to do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I heard your comments around ACA but again earlier in your prepared comments you talked about emerging health care models.
Can you maybe just give us an idea of how you're working with IDNs and accountable care organizations? I mean we clearly have seen this trend where hospitals are taking more and more volume in-house as they're buying physician practices et cetera.
What are some of the things that you're doing to combat that and to work more closely with both IDNs physician practices accountable care organizations whatever you want to call the new models? I think the fundamental thing is to expand the range of services that we provide from just pure clinical laboratory services which make no mistake are critical to patient care but to expand those services beyond just providing a test result to helping the physician select the proper tests interpret the test results combine it with the clinical data available on the patient and help guide the physician to better outcomes.
And so those are really primary activities.
In terms of hospitals in my view the pressure on cost the need for cost reduction the changes in payment structure will lead hospitals ultimately to look for collaborative ways to work with people who can provide them high-quality services at a lower cost than they can provide it themselves.
And if you look at things that hospitals have outsourced and are outsourcing I think this will continue to be the trend.
You've seen anesthesiology radiology emergency room being outsourced and I think that's going to continue.
So we're really focused on developing collaborative business relationships with hospitals as opposed to just buying customer lists from them and that's where we're going to continue to stay focused as we develop our capabilities inside this new care model.
Research Division</strong> And just based on your comments around this new care model do you think you get paid for not just the volume but it sounded to me like you're almost creating a lab benefit management type company? Is that the right way to think about it? And can you get paid in addition to just doing the lab itself for all of these other services you just mentioned? I think we can get paid for the reasons that I mentioned in answer to Gary's question.
I don't think we get paid on day 1.
I think we have to prove that our capabilities work but I think we get paid over time.
And I would describe it not so much as a lab benefit management system as I would as a care management system focused around making sure that the patient is getting the right laboratory tests combined with the right other diagnostic and clinical interventions at the right time.
And that -- those are the capabilities that we're developing.
Your next question comes from the line of Amanda Murphy with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> So I had a few follow-ups here.
So I guess first to Tom's earlier question on underlying volume growth.
So historically we've talked about 2% to 3% volume growth and now we're seeing it more like 0% to 1%.
I guess I'm just curious is there any evidence at this point that we're not -- we haven't just seen a fundamental reset there just given higher deductible plans? Or do you still expect the volume growth ultimately -- putting ACA aside for a minute but the underlying volume growth to come back to sort of pre-recession levels? Amanda it's Dave.
Obviously the environment has been persistently a low-growth environment.
But there are a lot of reasons for that many of which we've talked about and you've talked about on the -- you guys have talked about on the call already.
So higher patient co-pays and deductibles hospitals acquiring physician practices generally muted utilization even weather all these things have an impact.
I'm just not prepared to say that we're not going to return to the kind of typical 2% to 3% volume growth that we've seen historically.
It's certainly taken longer than I thought it would.
But I still feel very optimistic over time that we are going to see organic volume growth in our business because all of the tailwinds: the aging population the development of new and more improved laboratory testing the opportunity for a collaboration with hospitals to move testing to more efficient points of care.
I just think over time yes we're going to see that historical growth rate that we saw in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then you guys have talked about leverage and a desire to increase leverage over time.
Is there any update on timing there and what you ultimately might do with those funds? I think we spoke to that in the prepared remarks that we do intend to increase the leverage to 2.5x over time and that we would expect absent sizable acquisition opportunities that the bulk of that -- those additional funds will be directed toward share repurchase.
Obviously how and when we get there will be determined by a large number of factors and we can't give you specifics on what the timing will be or how it will play out over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one on M&amp;A and you've talked a lot about that already as well.
But I'm curious what type of assets are you seeing coming to market? Is it -- has it changed at all? Or is it still consistent? And in terms of your focus on specific targets are you sort of still sticking to the core lab space? Or are you considering anything moving outside of your core business? I would say in terms of what's coming to market as you might expect there's a -- there has been an increase in the number of pathology labs specialty pathology labs that have come to market.
There's probably an increase in the number of labs that are serving nursing homes and long-term care.
I attribute these mostly to reimbursement activities by the government.
There continue to be a sizable number of opportunities that we think of as kind of being right in the fairway for us which are core clinical business specialized esoteric business.
In terms of moving outside the core laboratory business anything that we do is going to be based on our core laboratory capabilities and I don't see us at this point making any significant moves away from what we've always done which is be a superior provider of high-quality low-cost lab services.
There are plenty of acquisitions in and around the lab space that are attractive to us and those are the things that we're going to be focused on.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Ellich with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just a few things starting off with the issues that hit margins this quarter.
I was wondering Brad maybe could you quantify the impacts of the weather and payment reductions and the fewer days in the quarter? Yes.
Kevin I'm not going to break them out each one individually but I'll give them to you in order of impact.
First the payment reduction was the biggest impact by far to that year-over-year comparison followed by an equally -- an equal impact of the 2 items of a day and weather.
So that's kind of how we look at it.
When we think about those 3 things which we can quantify for ourselves that is the primary difference between margins in the first quarter this year compared to last year.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And with the day obviously that has to do with leap year from last year.
But was timing of holiday and the weightings of the days in the week was that lower this quarter versus last year as well? Well we take all that into account when we compute our number of days.
So any holiday impact would have been in our computation of the days and we see about a day less this quarter compared to the first quarter of last year.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then not to drill down too much but SG&amp;A was up a little bit as a percent of revenue this quarter.
Obviously you guys have done a great job of keeping a tight lid on expenses.
Just wondering if there was anything unusual this quarter and should we expect a similar types of cost savings over the next few quarters and long term.
Yes.
So if I look at the SG&amp;A as a percent of sales Kevin it's sequentially in line the first quarter compared to quarters 2 through 4 last year.
And it also was impacted by payment reductions weather and a day.
If I look in terms of absolute dollars on a year-over-year basis between Q1 last year and this year MEDTOX is obviously an impact item there in terms of absolute dollars.
In terms of going forward as tying back to Dave's comments of kind of what we do on an ongoing basis we continue to look for ways to reduce our costs by doing things better and SG&amp;A is definitely a focal point of a number of those activities.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then Dave just kind of slipping over.
In the wake of the Supreme Court's oral arguments for Myriad and BRCA is there any change to your thoughts on commercialization plans? Kevin no not at the moment.
I think obviously everyone is very interested in what the outcome of that case is going to be.
And when the decision is rendered we'll make the decision about how we proceed in terms of new opportunities for commercialization of tests or there may not be opportunities.
Again it really is dependent on what the court tells us.
Research Division</strong> Got it understood.
And then just lastly I was wondering could you provide any more color on the Bristol-Myers clinical trials testing announcement that came out? Is that meaningful? And are there other big opportunities you guys are looking at with any of the other major pharma companies? Sure.
The clinical trial central lab business has been a very successful business for us over the last 7 years and through a combination of acquisitions and organic growth has basically tripled in size which we're very pleased about.
I think the -- being selected as a preferred partner by Bristol-Myers is a validation that the many things that we've done to grow the business to create the bioanalytical capabilities to expand internationally with our labs now in China Singapore and Japan we are a real contender in the central lab business and we will continue to pursue these opportunities because they're great from a pricing perspective and they allow us to do a lot of development work of innovative testing and companion diagnostics in collaboration with our pharma partners.
Your next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First one had to do with market share trends.
Just wondering if you would mind compare and contrasting what you're seeing from your larger lab competitors versus the in-source market as we get closer to ACA implementation.
I'm just curious where you see the best opportunities to pick up a little bit of share.
Isaac it's Dave.
Obviously the great majority of testing is still in the hospital environment and it's being performed in a high-cost environment and it's being billed at a high cost compared to our cost and our pricing.
So I think the greatest opportunity for gain in share continues to be for the reasons that I've already stated and answered the previous question.
The trends are going to drive laboratory services to more efficient and higher quality situses of care and so I think we're going to see the opportunity to pick up share from hospitals over time.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And maybe just to follow up there.
I mean I guess what I should have said more clearly is do you think there's a mindset in the marketplace that as we move closer to ACA there's more willingness to sort of reassess where our testing gets done whether it be through the payor side or with hospitals? Did you sense that conversations of that nature are starting to happen as we get closer to ACA? Yes I do.
I agree with that.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a few things left here.
Wanted to just go back to volume performance in the quarter.
And I guess more specifically can you give us some level of breakdown between the routine and the esoteric growth in Q1? And then any commentary about where you're seeing some strength or some softness in any particular areas? And Dave it would be nice just to get your thoughts on hepatitis testing given the guidelines always had some time for the physician community to react.
Just curious to see how that's been trending.
Sure.
So esoteric volume in the quarter was up about 2% per day driven by well multiple factors going in different directions.
So some nice growth in some of our new testing offset by some decline in vitamin D and still the pressure on surgical pathology and histology.
On the HCV the year-over-year performance is very impressive in terms of the amount of HCV screen that we're requiring -- I'm sorry that we're receiving.
There has been a significant public relations campaign by the government through the CDC to get baby boomers screened for hepatitis C.
So the screening test is not an expensive test but the volumes are up nicely.
And then of course for those that screen positive it's very important that they get follow-up testing including genotyping testing viral load testing and in many cases the companion diagnostic testing for which drug the patient will respond to.
So I continue to think hepatitis C is a big opportunity and we've had the leading hepatitis C franchise for years very much strengthened by the terrific work that our Monogram specialty lab is doing.
And we look forward to capitalizing on that opportunity over time Darren.
Research Division</strong> So you did provide the esoteric growth per day sorry if I missed this but the routine how did that break down? That would be a little over 3% on a per-day basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Dave do you care to just maybe size the level of growth for your hepatitis franchise just to maybe give us some thoughts about how it is growing? I don't think the -- I don't think it's meaningful to give you percentage increases in the screening volumes because they -- the percentages are going to be grossly disproportionate to the amount of screening that we do.
Let's just say we've seen very nice year-over-year growth.
And as we get that testing again our goal always is not to win tests but to win accounts so it gives us the opportunity to provide a more comprehensive set of services both to primary care and specialty physicians.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then if I could just Brad maybe a numbers question here.
Income from JVs not terribly outside of the band of what we'd expect but definitely a little bit higher this quarter.
Can you comment on that and maybe just give us some flavor for how it might look for the balance of the year? I don't think it was very much different than what we expected and wouldn't expect it to be that much different on the year.
So nothing significant that I could point to there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last thing.
Any update at all about the Canadian operations? I think there was at some point some discussion that you might seek out a partner.
And where are you in that? And are there opportunities to go beyond the Ontario province? There are a number of opportunities in Canada and we continue to spend time there.
Very pleased with our businesses that we have and we are continually looking for opportunities to grow there.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick last few questions.
The first on the fourth quarter $49 million of acquisition spending.
Can you -- was that an earn-out or was there actually something real in there that you could discuss? Gary this is Brad.
I'm going to have to go back and look at that and get back to you on that.
But Gary it's Dave.
There was nothing sizable in the fourth quarter that would have contributed to first quarter performance.
As Brad mentioned I mean MEDTOX is the driver of most of the nonorganic growth.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just my last question.
We were reading about Aetna lowering pricing coming up this July in its standard lab fee schedule.
Obviously you don't have a lot of exposure to Aetna with Quest having the national contract.
But would this -- is there any way that what they would be doing on the rate side this particular payor have any material impact on LabCorp? I saw the same article that you did I think in one of the trade magazines.
And we -- and that's the first that we were made aware of it.
So I think we're not in a position to answer that question at this time.
I don't think it would have a material impact on us given the relationship with Aetna but I can't give you a definitive answer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
As -- I'll ask for this but I expect I probably won't get it: Aetna as a percent of revenue broadly? I mean this is I would imagine single-digit percentage of revenue? Yes we don't obviously specify how much percentage of revenue any of our customers is so I'm going to make your prediction come true and not tell you the answer.
Your next question comes from the line of Sandy Draper with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked and I did have to drop off for a second so if this question got asked just tell me to go back to the transcript.
Dave I was curious if you could comment a little bit.
I know Lisa had brought up the hospital trend and what's going on there.
It's -- clearly there may be some changes.
Are you seeing any change in the marketplace now with the discussions that you're having with hospitals? Or is it sort of still the same in that you expect changes to happen as we get further into ACA and ACOs in further developments? Or are you already seeing more and differentiated discussions than you were seeing maybe 12 24 months ago? Sandy I did comment on that so I'll just reiterate briefly.
I mean I think that across all of health care services there are discussions going on about how we can provide the highest quality care at the most efficient point of service.
I think there's a greater willingness on the part of hospitals to talk about ways that they can collaborate with us and build a sustainable model over time in which we can work together to provide the highest quality lowest cost of care with the best outcomes.
So there's a lot going on in health care services.
There's a lot of change happening and I think the tenor of the conversations has been very positive.
But as fast as change goes change also go slowly in terms of the way that large organizations do business and we're going to be -- we're going to continue to be very persistent in pointing out that we can improve the cost structure and the quality side of the way lab services are delivered to patients.
Your next question comes from the line of Frank Morgan with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could provide a number on what you expect the consolidated charges and expenses to be on the year? I mean obviously you reported some in the quarter for the consolidation activity but what do you think that number will be in aggregate for the year? Frank this is Brad.
That's not typically a number that we would guide to.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly on the follow-up to Gary's question on -- are there any other major contracts that you have that are of significant size or coming up for renewal this year? Frank it's Dave.
As we've said we are in discussions with both Cigna and Humana about contract status and we expect those to be resolved during the year this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one final question.
Just in terms of number of tests per requisition are you seeing any kind of pressure at all from commercial payors on that? Is that a lever that they might have to try to lower overall utilization and cost and I'll hop off.
It's Dave.
I don't think we're seeing pressure on test per requisition from commercial payors.
And realistically I think that would be a very hard lever to pull because the doctor is ordering the tests per requisition based on what he or she thinks is in the best interest of patient care.
I think it would be awfully tough to tell doctors "You're only allowed to order 1.0 tests per requisition." Your next question comes from the line of A.J.
Rice with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones if possible.
I know we've talked a lot about your discussions with hospitals and others on ACOs and to some degree exchanges.
Any pressure or any offering to -- on their part to ask you to take on any kind of risk-based contracts of any sort? And do you have any openness to that? A.J.
it's Dave.
That was a pretty broad introduction covering everything from hospitals to ACOs to exchanges.
So yes certainly there are people we talk to who are interested in risk-based contracts.
And in the appropriate circumstance certainly we would consider that.
I mean if you think about our UnitedHealthcare contract certainly it was a risk-based contract in that we agreed to cover some leakage as part of the initial contract.
So in the appropriate circumstances with the right parameters and with us having confidence that we can execute yes we would be willing to think about risk-based contracts but that would certainly be the exception rather than the rule.
Research Division</strong> So that -- but that's not the way you sort of see this evolving? That that becomes a meaningfully more significant portion of your business or anything? Not in the near term absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the comment about bad debt being one of the places where you'd see some benefit I guess one potential at least to narrow it down you're running 4.3% bad debt today.
How much of that is co-pays and deductibles and how much of that is uninsured? I'm assuming that the opportunity under ACA would largely be on the uninsured side as opposed to the co-pays and deductibles.
Am I right in thinking that way? A.J.
this is Brad.
You're right.
Most of that 4.3% is driven by our uninsured experience so that's where we see the potential benefit as a result of ACA.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you would say most of the 4.3% is uninsured? There's not a big...
I'd say 70% to 80% -- 70% 80%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then lastly and I think you guys certainly spent some time on it last quarter you mentioned it again today.
This upgrade that you're doing of the 10-year testing platform it sounds like that's sort of unique to this year.
Can you give us any sense is that -- is the cost associated with doing that -- or I don't know if there's any disruption is that in any way impacting the numbers this year? Is it meaningful enough to do that that we should be aware that there's a cost that you're incurring for that? No I mean we've called it out as being part of the capital that we're incurring but it's not meaningful from an expense perspective.
Okay.
It's the top of the hour so we have a couple more people in the queue and I'm just going to ask you unless it's something that really has not been asked before please let's try to wrap up the call.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Vendetti with Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Just real quickly.
Over the last 5 years can you just give like an estimate of how much the clinical lab fee schedule has been cut? And do you think future cuts will be more driven by specific CPT codes? Anthony it's Dave.
We -- the clinical lab fee schedule over the last -- I'd say this year obviously it was a 5% cut.
I don't have the number right in front of me of what the 5-year impact was but obviously we can provide that to you.
In terms of future cuts I think the President's budget just talks about an across-the-board fee schedule cut.
I understand though that individual codes can be reviewed from time to time as the 88305 was this year.
So I don't think there's any way of predicting where the pressure will be.
But to go back to the discussion with Ricky we're spending a lot of time through ACLA and individually in Washington explaining the value of laboratory services how they drive physician decisions and support better patient care and why these cuts are really detrimental to Medicare beneficiaries Medicaid beneficiaries access and receipt of quality care.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And esoteric volume I know it was up 2% per day but what was it up in total in the quarter? On an absolute basis it would have been 0.2%.
Your next question is a follow-up from the line of Kevin Ellich with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up.
On the uninsured I think you said that you saw an uptick in Q1.
Was that just related to the flu? Or I guess what drove this uptick? Kevin it's Dave.
We don't really have any way of knowing.
The patients come to the patient service centers or the tests come from the doctor's office.
We don't have any way of knowing what's causing the uptick.
As we've said many times flu is not a big driver of clinical laboratory testing so it would be surprising if that were the reason.
And at this time we have no further questions.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
David King for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
I do just want to close with a personal observation and that is that as I think you all know Bob Hagemann is leaving Quest and so this is our opportunity to say something about Bob.
And what I would say is there's a lot of respect at LabCorp for Bob.
I think he's been around for more than 15 years.
And when he started in this industry the industry was flat on its back with DSOs over 100 and bad debt over 10%.
And it's guys like Tom McMahon [ph] and Ken Freeman West Allenberg [ph] and Bob Hagemann who really had the discipline to help put this industry back on its feet and turn it into what it is today which is a tremendous value and a great driver of exceptional patient care.
So as I said there's a lot of respect here for Bob Hagemann.
The industry will miss him and we wish him well in all of his future endeavors.
And with that we wish you good day and thank you for listening to our call.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter 2 2013 Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Michelle and I'm your event operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to David King Chairman and CEO.
Please go -- proceed sir.
Thank you Michelle.
Good morning and welcome to LabCorp's Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Joining me today from LabCorp are Brad Hayes Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Ed Dodson Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; Adam Feinstein Senior Vice President Corporate Development and Strategy; and Steve Anderson Vice President Investor Relations.
This morning we will discuss our second quarter 2013 financial results update our 2013 guidance discuss the payment landscape highlight our progress on our Five Pillar Strategy and provide answers to several frequently asked questions.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Steve Anderson who has a few comments before we begin.
Before we get started I would like to point out that there will be a replay of this conference call available via the telephone and Internet.
Please refer to today's press release for replay information.
This morning the company filed a Form 8-K that included additional information on our business and operations.
This information is also available on our website.
Analysts and investors are directed to this 8-K and our website to review this supplemental information.
Additionally we refer you to today's press release which is available on our website for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call to GAAP.
These non-GAAP measures include adjusted EPS excluding amortization free cash flow and adjusted operating income.
I would also like to point out that we are making forward-looking statements during this conference call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results the implementation of our business strategy and the ongoing benefits from acquisitions.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect the company's financial results.
Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our 2012 10-K and subsequent filings.
The company has no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now Brad Hayes will review our financial results.
Thank you Steve.
On today's call I'll review 4 key measures of our financial performance: cash flow revenue growth margin and liquidity.
I'll also update our 2013 guidance.
First cash flow.
Our cash flow continues to be solid although in the quarter it was negatively impacted by delays and denials of coverage for existing tests by some payors after implementation of recently adopted molecular pathology codes.
Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months ended June 30 2013 was $597.8 million.
DSO at the end of June was 50 days unchanged from year end.
During the quarter our bad debt remained 4.3%.
Second revenue growth.
Revenue increased 3.1% year-over-year in the second quarter.
During the quarter total company volume increased 5%.
Organic volume increased 1.4% year-over-year.
Revenue per requisition decreased 1.8% year-over-year.
Managed care pricing remained stable but revenue per requisition decreased due to previously discussed Medicare payment reductions delays and denials of coverage for existing tests by some payors after implementation of recently adopted molecular pathology codes the implementation of sequestration on April 1 2013 and strong growth in our drugs of abuse testing.
Dave will discuss the molecular pathology payment issues in his remarks.
Growth from our MEDTOX acquisition has exceeded our expectations.
And while the strong performance has positively impacted revenue volume and profitability it has negatively impacted revenue per requisition.
Third margin.
For the second quarter our adjusted operating income margin was 18.8% compared to 19.7% in the second quarter of 2012.
Margins were negatively affected by the previously discussed factors.
Fourth liquidity.
We remain well capitalized.
At the end of June we had cash of $111.3 million and $225 million of borrowings outstanding under our $1 billion credit facility.
During the second quarter we repurchased $362 million of stock representing 3.7 million shares.
At the end of June $592.1 million of repurchased authorization remained under our share repurchase program.
Our increased share repurchase activity during the second quarter reflects our continued disciplined capital allocation program and commitment to return capital to our shareholders.
This morning we updated our 2013 financial guidance.
We expect revenue growth in the range of approximately 2% to 3%; adjusted EPS excluding amortization of $6.90 to $7.10 which includes a negative impact of approximately $0.35 due to Medicare payment reductions and which excludes the impact of any share repurchase activity after June 30 2013; operating cash flow of approximately $825 million to $850 million; and capital expenditures of approximately $200 million to $220 million.
Our capital expenditure guidance is higher than historical levels due to near-term investments in facility consolidation and replacement of a major testing platform.
I will now turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Brad.
We're very pleased with our second quarter results.
During the quarter we grew revenue approximately 3.1%.
We grew volume 5% and organic volume 1.4%.
We maintained pricing discipline and we returned capital to shareholders through the repurchase of $362 million of our stock representing 3.7 million shares.
I would now like to review the payment landscape in general.
We are pleased that we have continued our disciplined approach to managed care pricing.
The government payment situation however is quite challenging.
We were absorbing approximately $55 million in payment reductions in 2013 due to Medicare fee schedule reductions from sequestration the 88305 reduction and other reductions.
In a recently released proposed physician fee schedule rule CMS proposed to broadly update the clinical lab fee schedule which has already been cut by approximately 5% this year alone and by nearly 8% cumulatively since the beginning of 2010 and to make a significant change in the calculation of payment rates for flow cytometry FISH IHC and other critical laboratory services paid from the physician fee schedule.
Most of these tests are used for the diagnosis and monitoring of critically ill cancer patients and they are essential to patients receiving proper and appropriate care.
CMS revised payment for these critical tests by using the hospital OPPS as a comparator to current physician fee schedule payment rates and proposing to pay the lower of the two.
CMS' reasoning in proposing this change is fundamentally flawed.
The change in methodology if implemented will dramatically reduce payment to community pathologists independent labs hospital outreach labs and all other labs providing vital services to cancer patients.
It will be detrimental to patient care into every laboratory large and small.
The change is unmerited and must not be implemented.
And the laboratory community the pathology community the physician community and the diagnostics community are united in working to prevent this assault on cancer patients and the laboratories that serve them.
Furthermore our payment experience with respect to the newly -- to the recently implemented molecular pathology codes has been disappointing.
During 2012 we told investors that we believe the pricing of these codes would have little impact on LabCorp pricing.
On reviewing the pricing established for these codes our belief proved correct.
Nonetheless during the first quarter of this year we experienced delays in the pricing and implementation of these codes among various payors including Medicaid Medicare and commercial carriers.
These delays were not surprising given the extent of the impacted procedures.
Because we expected that these delays will be properly resolved and have little impact for the full year we did not highlight them for investors on our first quarter earnings call in April.
Since our last conference call however several noncommercial payors have still not priced key molecular codes and a number of these payors have informed us that they will no longer cover and pay for tests that they have always covered and paid for including cancer markers and genetic analysis.
Further several payors are requiring additional information to process claims or have implemented prior authorization policies.
Many commercial payors are only now becoming aware of the impact of their claim at us which impede patient access to services that previously were covered and paid for.
These decisions are largely being made ad hoc not pursuant to any properly promulgated coverage policies.
They are contrary to long-established standards of care and will ultimately be harmful to patients.
For example we received non-covered responses from a number of state Medicaid organizations for carrier testing and prenatal screening for cystic fibrosis fragile X and SMA testing which are standard of care and which are called for within guidelines set by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists as well as the American College of Medical Genetics.
These genetic profiles and full gene sequencing tests offered by LabCorp and many other independent hospital-based and academic labs are critical to the health and welfare of our patients.
Failing to cover and pay for these tests will lead to curtailment of services to beneficiaries and ultimately to higher not lower health care costs.
It is particularly troubling that state governments are taking positions that not only harm all laboratories but also limit care available to the most vulnerable and underserved population.
And that the federal TRICARE program is taking positions that harm all laboratories and limit care to our active-duty military and their families.
We are working diligently with payors to address these issues and ACLA and our industry colleagues are fully engaged.
We trust that reason will prevail here and believe that these payors will ultimately cover molecular diagnostic testing as they had in the past.
The delays and denials of coverage for these existing and previously covered tests had a negative impact on revenue price operating income adjusted EPS excluding amortization and cash flow in the first half of this year and is incorporated into our updated guidance for the full year.
Again it is our expectation that we will receive appropriate payment for our services and that these unprecedented nonpayment policies will be reversed which would result in upside to our guidance.
The laboratory industry is being harmed and make no mistake the harm is not only to LabCorp it is to hospital labs academic labs and independent labs small and large.
Our industry cannot and should not be expected to provide critical services to patients without being paid.
I would now like to update our progress on each aspect of our Five Pillar Strategy.
The first pillar of our strategy is that we deploy capital to investments that enhance our business and return capital to shareholders.
The performance of our MEDTOX business continues to exceed our expectations and we are particularly pleased with the growth of our drugs of abuse business.
The integration is proceeding as anticipated and is nearly complete.
MEDTOX provides us with an excellent opportunity to diversify our payor and testing mix and we remain excited about the opportunity to grow this business.
Earlier this year we announced a target leverage ratio of 2.5x net debt to EBITDA.
Our share repurchase activity during the second quarter brought us to a leverage ratio of 1.9x net debt to EBITDA a tangible step for achieving this goal.
We also continued to deploy capital to small strategic acquisitions that expand our test menu and geographic footprint.
The second pillar of our strategy is to enhance our IT capabilities to improve the physician and patient experience.
We continue to develop and implement new population health analytics modules that provide business intelligence tools to hospitals physician practices and ACOs.
These tools assist customers in their compliance in reporting requirements with respect to efficient management of their productivity quality and patient outcome efforts.
We also continue to organize and manage a large amount of patient data and we expect to use population health insights to improve patient care.
These industry-leading data-driven services position LabCorp as a trusted partner to health care stakeholders providing the knowledge to optimize decision-making improve health outcomes and reduce treatment costs.
Looking ahead we will continue to add new analytic offerings at the point-of-lab order and result delivery to enhance the physician experience and patient care.
The third pillar of our strategy is to continue to improve efficiency to offer the most compelling value in laboratory services.
The Propel installation on our Burlington campus is complete and it is currently splitting and sorting approximately 75% of our Atlantic division volume.
We expect that Propel will process 100% of this volume by the end of July and we intend to install the system in other labs over time.
Propel represents a significant financial investment in innovation and will help decrease our labor expense and increase throughput and accuracy.
Construction continues on our new Phoenix campus and we intend to initiate operations within this 240 000 square foot facility later this fall.
The campus will initially consolidate 4 laboratories and will be used for further consolidation activity over the next few years.
The fourth pillar of our strategy is to continue scientific innovation at reasonable and appropriate pricing.
We introduced new tests and collaborate with leading companies and academic institutions to provide our physicians and patients with the most scientifically advanced testing in our industry.
We realized that investors have great interest in the recent Supreme Court ruling related to BRCA analysis.
We intend to enter the BRCA testing market.
At this point we believe the ruling will have a net positive impact on our business with new opportunities the ruling likely provides.
The fifth pillar of our strategy is to integrate our offerings into emerging health care delivery models.
We continue to develop LabCorp Beacon BeaconLBS Beacon Analytics and decision support tools to expand our capabilities and create new value-added products and services for our customers.
These tools give us access to additional data beyond the clinical laboratory data we have allowing us to provide an integrated view of the patient and deliver it to the physician's desktop.
We will use all of these capabilities to provide critical insights to support diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for the patient's clinical condition.
We will also continue to evaluate opportunities to expand our data gathering and analytics capabilities and to use them as tools both to grow our existing business and create new sources of revenue.
The critical components of success in the post-reform era with be quality efficiency and a role in improving patient outcomes.
LabCorp is uniquely positioned to meet these needs in the months and years to come.
Now Steve Anderson will review anticipated questions and our specific answers to those questions.
Thank you Dave.
"Can you describe the impact of Medicare payment cuts in 2013?" The Affordable Care Act baseline for the 2013 update to the clinical lab fee schedule was negative 0.95%.
And the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act re-baselined the fee schedule an additional 2% lower.
These fee schedule reductions became effective on January 1 2013.
Due to mandatory sequestration we received an additional 2% reduction to the clinical lab fee schedule and a separate 2% reduction to the physician fee schedule effective April 1 2013.
We are also experiencing a variety of other government payment reductions including the reduction to CPT code 88305 and the full year impact of the TC Grandfather Clause.
Summed together we continue to estimate that these payment reductions will lower our 2013 EPS by approximately $0.35 which is already incorporated into our guidance.
"Why are capital expenditures expected to be so high in 2013?" We typically spend approximately 3% of revenue on capital expenditures.
As Brad previously mentioned our capital expenditure increase in 2013 is driven by near-term investments in facility consolidation and replacement of a major testing platform.
"Can you update us on the mix of your business coming from esoteric testing?" For the year approximately 38% of our revenues were in the genomic esoteric and anatomic pathology categories.
As we reiterated last quarter our goal is to increase our esoteric test mix to approximately 45% of our revenue within the next 3 to 5 years.
In conclusion I'd like to mention that earlier this quarter we provided over $1 million worth of laboratory instruments to the government of Mozambique as part of a humanitarian aid effort.
Mozambique is recovering from 30 years of Civil War which destroyed a majority of the country's schools and hospitals.
With the Democratic government in place Mozambique is striving to reestablish health care delivery for its 22 million people.
As in many others sub-Saharan African countries Mozambique's population suffers from poverty a high neonatal mortality rate low life expectancy and a high incidence of infectious disease such as HIV and malaria.
The equipment provided by LabCorp supplements aid that Mozambique receives from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention the Office of the U.S.
Global AIDS Coordinator the Mozambique Healthcare Consortium; UnitedHealth Group and other public and private aid groups.
We work closely with the Mozambican branch of the CDC to place this equipment in the country's national health labs and central reference hospitals to improve the diagnostic and patient management capabilities of the country's health care practitioners.
These instruments and the associated training provided by LabCorp will contribute to improve health care and quality of life for a truly needy population.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Steve.
Thank you very much for listening.
We are now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Robert Willoughby from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Dave how many course do you have to get payment back from some of these payors that denied you? And maybe more importantly what's a reasonable time frame for recovery? Bob let's separate it into the commercial the Medicaid and then TRICARE.
So with commercial payors this is a negotiated process.
As we mentioned many of them incorporated these payment policies without the realization of the impact that would -- that it would have on the claim filing process a lot of paper claims a lot of additional information and the impact on patients.
And so most of it is just a question of sitting down and talking with them explaining the circumstances and then we get the coverage issues resolved.
With the Medicaids a couple of the key Medicaids still have not priced the codes so they told us they're going to pay for the tests but they still haven't priced the codes and these are a couple of sizable Medicaids.
And we have been -- we have a commitment that they will price the codes within the third quarter but obviously claims are not going to be paid until the codes are priced.
There are a couple of Medicaids that have said they are not going to pay for this testing even though they have paid for it in the past and they have covered it in the past because either they call it new tests or because of budgetary constraints.
On those it's dealing with the Medicaids it's getting ACLA involved and ACLA is fully engaged in this as are our other industry colleagues and it's also potentially legislative and executive remedies in those particular states.
And finally with TRICARE initially TRICARE placed cystic fibrosis on its no-pay code list.
Our understanding is that after some inquiries from us and others that the code is off the list but it still hasn't been priced so we're back in the situation that we have to wait for them to price the code.
So as you can tell from that discussion the timing is somewhat uncertain.
We do expect the -- we're optimistic that the commercial ones for the most part will be resolved within the year.
Whether some of the governmental ones go over into next year we just have no way of knowing and that's part of the reason we say as these get resolved they provide additional upside to the guidance because we've incorporated the view that we stated here into how we think about guidance for the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And has this triggered from your standpoint -- I mean other labs are seeing this as well you have this factor plus some of the cuts and proposals going forward.
I mean how is this changing the M&amp;A pipeline for you? Is it too early to call at this point? Or are you seeing more activity as a net result of this? I think it's a little bit early to call but the pipeline continues to be quite robust and there are good opportunities out there for us in a variety of areas.
When you think about nonpayment for molecular codes you think about cuts to 88305.
There are a number of either specialized laboratories or laboratories with broad exposure to Medicare in these payment areas that are either thinking about entering the acquisition market or are already in the market.
The next question we have comes from the line of Tom Gallucci.
Research Division</strong> I guess just following up on a couple of Bob's questions there.
Can you just help me explain sort of how you're handling the revenues and related -- and to the molecular testing that's not getting paid for at this point? I mean the DSOs didn't really go up in the bad debt.
It didn't really go up so you said you got it all factored in.
But how is that actually flowing through? And is there any way to sort of frame the magnitude of what we're talking about? Tom it's Brad.
The way it's flowing through and manifesting itself is in price.
These kinds of adjustments we have historically considered noncoverage items and items where payors don't pay for certain things as revenue adjustments so that's where they're showing up.
And while the DSO was flat we expected it to be down.
And if we look at why it's not down this particular item for the delays and the nonpayment are exactly what's causing it.
Research Division</strong> And is there any way to frame sort of the magnitude of what we're talking about here relative to I don't know the overall company whether it's revenue or test or any other perspective? Yes what I would say is it's about 4% of our revenue that's affected by this entire process.
Our molecular pathology revenue is a little bit higher but some of it's commercial billed and capitated so it doesn't really fall into this CPT code-related process so it's about 4% of revenue.
And then a subset of that is what we're having the difficulty with here.
We're not going to give a specific number about what we've seen in the first quarter and expect for the back half of the year because as Dave mentioned we're fighting this and we hope to get it reversed because it's really not merited.
And when we look at price year-over-year the 1.8% that we reported if you take into account sequestration and these changes and some of the other factors that we talked about those are the issues that are resulting in that price.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful Brad.
And then I guess just more broadly on the acquisition front I guess Bob asked about the reimbursement changes affecting the pipeline.
Dave I know you've talked about diversifying revenue streams a bit so maybe areas that are outside of some of these sectors that are being hit by reimbursement.
Your drug testing did very well in the quarter I think that's the idea in that business.
It doesn't have exposure to some of this stuff.
Can you talk about maybe where you are in the process or what the pipelines might look like for you to continue to expand into sort of areas outside of some of the Medicare Medicaid areas that have the more pressure? Yes Tom.
I think if you look at the key acquisitions that we've done in the last couple of years we made an acquisition that gave us greater international capability in our pharma services clinical trials central lab business.
That is not exposed to government reimbursement.
It's well priced.
And we've been very very pleased with that because that business continues to expand as does the clinical trial business that is -- that comes in through monograms.
Our paternity and forensic testing area where we made the Orchid acquisition that not only gave us exposure to some private revenue and some nongovernmental revenue but also to some international revenue with the U.K.
and now we're getting some work in that business out of the Middle East.
MEDTOX is a commercial pay.
It's a -- typically an employer pay clinical trials and commercial pay business.
There's essentially no exposure to government.
So we are continuing to look at acquisitions that will help us diversify the revenue base.
We have looked at and decided not to make some acquisitions for example in pathology where we think we would be further exposing ourselves to these kinds of issues.
And then we continue to look as I mentioned in speaking about Pillar Five in ways that we can take our data and that we can tuck things in that help us create potential revenue streams out of the data and the analytics.
So I think there's a -- I think we've had a broad approach to broadening the revenue base and at the same time sticking close to our knitting in terms of businesses that we fundamentally understand that know how to run and that fit our long-term strategic priorities.
The next question we have comes from the line of Gary Lieberman from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Was hoping maybe you can give a little bit more color on your organic volume growth which seems to be pretty good.
A number of operators both I guess other competing labs and even some of the acute care guys have noted that physician office visits were weak and overall volume seemed to be pretty weak.
So what do you attribute it to? Is it share gains? Or how would you characterize it? Gary it's Dave.
I think first of all MEDTOX the drugs of abuse testing the pay management business all have done extremely well.
Second of all I attribute it to good execution.
I mean sales execution service execution the investments that we've made in getting results back to physicians earlier in interfaces there's -- I wish we had some secret.
We don't have a secret.
Our secret is we have a terrific test menu.
We're very focused on execution on both the sales and service side of the business and the kudos are to our organization for executing on our priorities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe could you update us on the status of renegotiation of any of your large commercial contracts? So we renewed the Cigna contract and the Humana contract.
We've made progress.
It's still under discussion.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe one housekeeping item.
Do you give the share count at the end of the quarter? Gary it will be in the Q which we'll file shortly.
The next question we have comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser and he's from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Guys can you talk a little bit about your views on benefit from ACA Medicaid expansion next year given the change to the employer mandate and just kind of like the discussion on the lower potential enrollment? It's Dave.
We've said all along there's a lot of moving parts in the ACA and continue to believe there are a lot of moving parts in the ACA.
I think that the ACA will be a net positive for us because there will be more people covered by insurance whether through government programs exchanges or employer base.
I don't think we can quantify it today because as you say there are questions about which Medicaids will expand and how significant they will be.
And there are questions about the readiness of the exchanges.
There was the delay in the employer mandate and in a couple of other regulations that now are not going to take effect apparently until 2015.
So again net positive we expect to see some benefit next year but certainly not factoring it in as a game changer as we think about 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to clarify the comments that you made on the pricing where the negative pricing trends are really a factor of the changes in molecular diagnostic et cetera.
Suggest to kind of like ask it in a more targeted way excluding these issues that you mentioned would your price metric be in positive territory similar to where it was in 1Q '13? Well there are a number of moving parts in price and the growth in drugs of abuse testing while it's positive to revenue it's positive to volume and it's positive to margin is negative to price because it's at a lower price point than our typical patient encounter.
Everything else that was involved in price had to do with the government reductions.
So the Medicare reductions that we talked about the sequestration and then as we mentioned MoPath which we don't view as a long-term reduction but certainly has an impact in this quarter.
So I just -- I don't think it's constructive to try to break down every bit and bob of pricing.
I think what we can say is we maintained price discipline with managed care and managed care pricing was flat as we've said.
And the price impact is coming from the factors we've enumerated.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last follow-up on the organic volume growth because obviously it seems that you're gaining share right? You're growing faster than what the industry has grown this quarter.
So -- and I understand it's on execution in sales and service.
But can you give us any color on where it's coming from i.e.
is it coming from the hospitals where I think there's a lot of concern as hospitals are in-sourcing? Or is it just coming from the physician market where you're just gaining share from your independent lab peers? Well I think it's coming from as we mentioned drugs of abuse and pain management.
I think it's coming from the physician market and then I think it's coming from hospital reference business.
Those are probably the 3 biggest areas in which we're seeing volume pickups.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the drugs of abuse just to make sure that I'm not confusing it is the drug of abuse that's tied to the MEDTOX acquisition? Or is it also just above and beyond that? It's both.
It's MEDTOX.
It's our what we call our occupational testing business and it's the pain management component of both of those businesses.
The next question we have comes from the line of Amanda Murphy and she's from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick follow-up on the reimbursement discussion.
So I may be too early yet but have you seen any change in the physician in-sourcing dynamic with the cuts to the code 88305 from last year? And then just as a follow-up to that they've obviously targeted physician flow this year.
And I'm curious there doesn't seem to be codes that are quite as exposed to that physician in-sourcing dynamic.
So curious if you have any insight into why they're going after those particular areas specifically.
Amanda it's Dave.
I think we've seen a slowing of the physician in-sourcing trend for sure since 88305 and believe there was also a report that came out about utilization after physician in-sourcing that -- in the last couple of weeks that suggested that physician in-sourcing led to higher utilization.
So I think the point has been made to CMS about the impact of physician in-sourcing and the trend does seem to be mitigated.
On the flow and the FISH the IHC and the other pathology codes we don't have a good understanding of why CMS has singled those out on the physician fee schedule although it's I think the number is 26% approximately reduction across the board on physician fee schedule pathology codes.
When you look at flow and FISH I mean the reductions are more in the 60% and 70% range.
So we don't know why those have been signaled -- have been singled out.
And again the reasoning behind equating those to the hospital OPPS is completely erroneous and we will fight to the end that those said proposed reductions not be implemented.
It is bad for laboratories but more fundamentally it is bad for cancer patients and it's going to have a terrible effect on the cancer patient population.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a follow-up to Ricky's question on the hospital side of the world.
So in terms of the opportunity that you have there to increase your -- whether it be outsourcing work from hospitals or working with them on a partnership level I mean is that market one that's underserved at this point? Or is it that -- I'm just trying to figure out where the growth is coming from.
Is it from volumes going more to hospitals as they're buying the doc practices? Or are you actually gaining share from existing competitors in that market? Well I think it's always risky to say that you're gaining share.
I think the numbers speak for themselves.
I think the hospital changes that we're seeing with physician in-sourcing do lead many hospitals to send out more testing because they are bringing in more testing.
And as they bring in complex testing they can't perform it themselves so they send it out.
So I do think that accounts for some of the trend in terms of our growth in the hospital business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last one from me in terms of MEDTOX.
I'm just curious if you can give a little more color on -- it seems like that's turning above your expectations in terms of growth.
And then just how that flows through in terms of guidance or how to think about that through the remainder of the year? Well I don't think we've ever talked about the P&amp;Ls of particular acquisitions and so we're certainly not going to do that now.
MEDTOX is doing better than we expected from a revenue and a profitability perspective.
As you know the guidance incorporates all the moving pieces in the business in a wide range of outcomes and so it's -- there's nothing we can really specify as to how MEDTOX plays in the guidance other than to say we're very pleased with the performance.
The next question we have comes from the line of Darren Lehrich who's from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to follow up on the Medicare PFS proposal.
Just as it relates to 2014 can you update us please on what your exposure is to fee schedule as a percentage of revenue and maybe just help us think a little bit more about what that proposal means? Darren it's Dave.
The Medicare physician fee schedule revenue in 2012 was 1.7% of total revenue.
Now it will be less this year because of some of the payment reductions that have already been implemented.
But if these reductions were to be implemented as proposed in the rule you could simply on average take the -- call it 1.5% of revenue and multiply that by negative 26.7% and you'd be in the ballpark of what the impact would be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you don't think your mix is necessarily different than what the 26% would imply given what you said about FISH and flow being higher than that? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then as it relates to molecular diagnostics issue can you just remind us -- my recollection was that this is in the domain of the max and it's been pretty byzantine in terms of how they've been pricing codes and approving codes.
But for 2014 or some point in the future it moves into the domain of the clinical lab fee schedule and so it comes back to Medicare on more of a federal level.
Is that how it's currently envisioned? And do you think that's 2014? And I guess the real question here is what would that mean then for the states and some of these other payors to the extent that some of those codes aren't approved? Well if I understand the question which I have to -- I'm not sure I do but if I understand the question the answer is the pricing has been done by individual Medicare carriers on a gap-fill basis.
The process has been slow and it has been nontransparent in the sense that we don't know what the inputs are into the pricing.
We have offered to try to help provide inputs and generally our offers of helping with inputs have been declined by the carriers the Medicare carriers.
And they have established pricing probably led by Palmetto and then a number of others have followed along.
As we said throughout the year last year the actual prices set would not have had a major impact on us because they're not terribly different from the prices that we were previously receiving.
The issue was the delay in setting the prices and then some of the coverage decisions are not the coverage changes that we've made reference to in the call.
I believe CMS will have greater authority over these prices in 2014 because I believe after they've been in place for a year CMS has the ability to review them.
But we had our work cut out for the rest of 2013 and that's what we're focused on.
Research Division</strong> Well yes.
It just would obviously seem like you'd have more leverage if you're dealing with one and even -- than multiples so that's helpful.
Then just the last question here is just on testing platforms.
First was hoping you might expand a little bit more on your BRCA comment.
You intend to enter the market based on what you said Dave.
When do you think that will occur? And then any kind of just broad-brush comment we could get on the FC market how you see that tracking and what do you think that market is doing? Is it accelerating? Is it just -- has it been stable the first half? Any comments there will be great.
Sure.
On BRCA we don't have a specific time frame for entering the market.
We actually are capable of performing the test today under current methodologies but we're looking at what's the best methodology and what's the right timing.
And as you probably saw even post the Supreme Court decision there's been another suit filed against the lab performing BRCA so this is not entirely free from controversy in spite of the Supreme Court's decision.
We're going to make a reasoned decision about when we enter the market and what methodology we use and what price we offer and all I can say stayed tuned in terms of our timing there.
On hepatitis C it's been one of the nice drivers of growth year-over-year.
The screening recommendations from the CDC have certainly given us some help.
In addition our hepatitis C expertise coming out of the terrific R&amp;D that we do at Monogram and the clinical trials for the new hepatitis C drugs have all been very strong for us there and so we're pleased.
We talked for long term about the opportunity in hepatitis C and we needed a catalyst in those guidelines for the catalyst.
Research Division</strong> What share do you think you have in the hep C market? Just couldn't even begin to estimate.
The next question we have comes from the line of Kevin Ellich and he comes from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-up questions.
I guess first on the 5% volume growth if 1.4% came organically is it safe to assume the remainder came from MEDTOX? Or was there anything else? Kevin this is Brad.
That's correct.
That's the way we look at it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the reduced operating cash flow guidance was that only due to the delays and denials from the MoPath codes? Or was there anything else included in that? I would say that makes up the substantial part of that thinking.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
Appreciate it.
And then Dave I was just kind of wondering if -- are you guys seeing any increased volume coming from wellness testing as more employers adopt these various programs? Kevin it's Dave.
I think the answer is yes.
We've had requests from a number of employers and plans for example to be able to do biometric testing in our patient service centers' point of service.
So I think the answer is yes.
Both wellness and pain management have been growers for us in the last couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And would that be lower-priced business all things considering? Yes probably.
So guys we have 10 minutes -- excuse me Michelle we have 10 minutes before the hour.
We have about 7 people in the queue so let’s try to make sure the questions we are asking are new and unique so that we can limit the call to an hour.
Thank you.
The next question we have comes from the line of Isaac Ro from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you maybe just show a little light on anything you're seeing with regards to the competitive environment against hospital labs ahead of ACA? And specifically do you see any near-term opportunity to pick up a little bit of market share and maybe you can kind of compare that against the dynamic you see where hospitals may be trying to bring more of their own business in? Isaac it's Dave.
I think as we have said hospitals have been acquiring physician groups which is -- which are bringing lab services in.
I would say at the same time we're seeing hospitals facing some of the similar pricing environment particularly government pricing environment that we're seeing and it's reflected in our numbers and in everybody else's numbers.
And so I think there's a greater interest in things like laboratory management services that help them reduce their costs than there has been historically.
And we've seen very good growth in laboratory management relationships with hospitals throughout the last probably 3 quarters and expect that to continue.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just want to follow up on the cost side of things.
Can you give us a sense maybe of what kind of savings you think you can target here on the sourcing and supply chain side of things? And specifically I'm referring to some of the vendor consolidation that your main competitor has undertaken recently.
I'm just trying to sense -- get a sense of what you think your relative opportunity is on that side.
Yes I think our opportunity there is relatively small.
We've done those things a long time ago so we have standard national contracts for almost all of our major supplies from gloves to dry ice you name it.
And so I don't think there's a lot of upside to further supply chain rationalization because as I say we've -- we undertook that process about 4 years ago.
The next question we have comes from the line of Gavin Weiss and he's from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to clarify SG&amp;A in the quarter came in a little bit below our expectations and showed the better trend than in the first quarter.
Is there anything specific there that's driving that improvement? And how should we think about that going forward? I would say just this is Brad continued integration of some acquisitions from last year.
No real change to mention and bad debt driving that trend and it's sustainable.
So there's nothing unusual driving it and we think that trend should continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then Dave you talked about the increased use of Propel in your North Carolina facility.
How should we think about that technology in terms of the margin profile? Is there a point where that becomes a significant impact? Or is it more just incremental? As I mentioned it's a significant financial investment in efficiency and innovation.
And from a margin perspective we should think of that -- we should think of it as it certainly is labor saving.
But a lot of the times what we do with those labor savings is that we move those positions into front-line positions so that we can continue the emphasis on sales and service that we talked about earlier in the call.
So we haven't quantified it and at the point when we have it up and running in our 8 labs we will be able to quantify it.
It will help with margin but I'd like to think of it as it more helps us to offset some of the pressures in the other direction than you would see a dramatic impact on margins overall.
The next question we have comes from the line of A.J.
Rice from UBS.
Research Division</strong> First a numbers question.
On the operating cash flow guidance it looks like you reduced that about $50 million from previous range anything behind that worth highlighting? It's Dave.
As Brad stated that is essentially due to our expectations for the timing of payment for the molecular pathology issues that we've discussed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just quickly on the -- if I look at your guidance for the back half you're at -- you're looking at it for $3.47 in the back half versus the $3.53 of non year-to-date.
I know sequestration you get 2 quarters of that in the back half versus one in the early part but you've also got the benefit of the buyback kicking in.
I know we've talked about a lot of different items on the call so far but if you look at the overall macro environment is there any reason? Are you thinking it will be a little tougher in the back half? Or would you describe that as your normal seasonal pattern even taking into account the buyback benefit? A.J.
it's Brad.
I would say it's normal seasonal.
I mean the fourth quarter is a tough EPS quarter just given the holidays and everything.
So as I look at the calendarization of our expectations I don't see anything unusual in it.
Research Division</strong> And no change in the macro basically from what you guys...
Not thinking of any at this point.
The next question we have comes from the line of Dane Leone from Macquarie.
I know it's early days since the Supreme Court ruling and you're still trying to figure out a strategy with BRCA.
But I think it would be helpful especially in historical context of your comments on where you ultimately think the growth potential of the lab industry is what type of scope and potential is there for the broader implications of the ruling? And what type of content could that ultimately unlock for LabCorp as it continues to push into a more esoteric product mix? It's Dave Dane.
I think that as we said the BRCA decision in and of itself unlock certain market opportunity to launch a -- the BRCA test more fundamentally or more broadly it opens up opportunities in other areas that have been patent protected and it raises the question of whether other things that have patent protection will continue to have that patent protection over time.
So as we think about next-generation sequencing as we think about the ability to do broader genetic testing longer reads sequence-full genes and add the content to that the interpretive content of that which is part of what we're developing in the second and fifth pillar I think the opportunity is very promising for us.
It would be really -- just it wouldn't make sense to try to quantify that now because the uncertainty is too great but we definitely view it as a long-term positive and is fitting nicely with our strategic focus.
The next question we have comes from the line of Glen Santangelo from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Dave just a couple of quick questions.
You only spent a fair amount of time on this call talking about the government reimbursement environment and appropriately so.
But I'm just kind of curious could you comment on the commercial environment? You made some comments earlier on talking about that you have a disciplined approach to pricing and you renewed Cigna and is currently in negotiations with Humana.
Could you give us a sense for how those negotiations are going? And do you -- are you nervous at all about any vulnerability on the commercial front given all the potential pressure on the government side? I've said for a long time that the fundamental process of negotiation with commercial payors is they want us to do more for less and we want to be paid more for what we do so it's a negotiation and I'm pleased that we have maintained good pricing discipline.
I'm pleased that pricing in the quarter on managed care remained stable.
And we're going to continue to do the best we can to maintain pricing discipline and keep that trend.
We have a long-standing partnership with Humana.
We value the relationship and our hope is that we're going to come to contract terms that are good for everybody.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just really quick.
Are you seeing any success or focus on behalf of the commercial payors regarding their efforts to narrow their lab networks? I don't think we're seeing a lot of impact there Glenn.
I think obviously there's been a lot of press given to some of the actions that Aetna has taken fairly publicly.
But I think the actual are we going to have more narrow networks? We're just not seeing a lot of it.
The next question we have comes from the line of Anthony Vendetti from Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> This will be quick.
I was just wondering if you could give the growth rate for drug in abuse testing and also for the esoteric and genomic testing for the quarter year-over-year? Okay.
Esoteric testing for the quarter was up I believe 3.5%.
The drugs of abuse testing for the quarter...
10.6%.
It's a race to see who can find it and Dave found it 10.6% year-over-year.
Now that is excluding the impact of MEDTOX.
That's our core drugs of abuse.
Exactly.
Just as a comparison in Q1 it was 10.2% on a per day basis excluding MEDTOX.
Thank you for your question.
I would now like to turn the call over to David King for closing remarks.
Thank you very much for listening to our second quarter earnings call and we wish you a good day.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference call.
This concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you and have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q3 2013 Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Clinton and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I'd now like to hand the call over to David King Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Clinton.
Good morning and welcome to LabCorp's Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Joining me today from LabCorp are Brad Hayes Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Ed Dodson Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; Adam Feinstein Senior Vice President Corporate Development and Strategy; and Steve Anderson Vice President Investor Relations.
This morning we will discuss our third quarter 2013 financial results update our 2013 guidance discuss the payment landscape highlight our progress on our Five Pillar Strategy and provide answers to several frequently asked questions.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Steve Anderson who has a few comments before we begin.
Before we get started I would like to point out that there will be a replay of this conference call available via the telephone and Internet.
Please refer to today's press release for replay information.
This morning the company filed a Form 8-K that included additional information on our business and operations.
This information is also available on our website.
Analysts and investors are directed to this 8-K and our website to review this supplemental information.
Additionally we refer you to today's press release which is available on our website for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call to GAAP.
These non-GAAP measures include adjusted EPS excluding amortization; free cash flow; and adjusted operating income.
I would also like to point out that we are making forward-looking statements during this conference call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results the implementation of our business strategy and the ongoing benefits from acquisitions.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect the company's financial results.
Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our 2012 10-K and subsequent filings.
The company has no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now Brad Hayes will review our financial results.
Thank you Steve.
On today's call I will review 4 key measures of our financial performance: cash flow revenue growth margin and liquidity.
I'll also update our 2013 guidance.
First cash flow.
Our cash flow continues to be solid although year-to-date it continued to be impacted by delays in payment and denials of coverage for existing tests by some payors after implementation of recently adopted molecular pathology codes.
Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months ended September 30 2013 were $620.2 million.
DSO at the end of September was 50 days which was flat sequentially and remains elevated due to our experience with the molecular pathology codes to which I just referred increased utilization by uninsured patients and increased patient billing due to plan design changes.
During the quarter our bad debt remained 4.3%.
Second revenue growth.
Revenue increased 3% year-over-year in the third quarter.
During the quarter total company volume increased 5.1%.
Organic volume increased approximately 2% year-over-year primarily from our toxicology business.
Revenue per requisition decreased to 1.9% year-over-year.
Revenue per requisition decreased year-over-year due largely to previously discussed government payment reductions payment issues related to molecular pathology codes and strong growth in our toxicology business.
Third margin.
For the third quarter our adjusted operating income margin was 17% compared to 18.2% in the third quarter of 2012.
Margins were negatively affected by Medicare payment reductions delays and denials of coverage by some payors after the implementation of recently adopted molecular pathology codes and the implementation of sequestration on April 1.
Fourth liquidity.
We remain well capitalized.
At the end of September we had cash of $174.1 million and $372 million of borrowings outstanding under our $1 billion credit facility.
During the third quarter we repurchased $288 million of stock representing 2.9 million shares.
During the first 9 months of 2013 the company repurchased $763.9 million of stock representing 7.9 million shares.
At the end of September $304 million of repurchase authorization remained under our share repurchase program.
Our share repurchase activity during the third quarter reflects our continued disciplined capital allocation program and commitment to return capital to our shareholders.
This morning we announced that LabCorp's Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion share repurchase program.
This morning we updated our 2013 financial guidance.
We expect revenue growth of approximately 3%; adjusted EPS excluding amortization of $6.95 to $7.05; operating cash flow of approximately $825 million to $850 million; and capital expenditures of approximately $210 million.
The guidance includes the negative impact of approximately $0.35 due to Medicare payment reductions.
In addition the guidance includes the negative impact of molecular pathology payment issues which is not included in the $0.35 that I just mentioned.
The guidance excludes the impact of any share repurchase activity after September 30 2013.
The company's capital expenditure guidance is higher than historical levels due to near-term investments in facility consolidation and the replacement of a major testing platform.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Brad.
We are very pleased with our third quarter results.
During the quarter we grew revenue 3% we grew volume 5.1% and organic volume by approximately 2% a notable achievement in this environment.
We continue to execute well on our key growth initiatives.
We maintained pricing discipline.
And this morning we announced that LabCorp's Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion share repurchase program.
This authorization clearly demonstrates our commitment to our stated capital allocation objectives and continuing to return more capital to our shareholders.
I would now like to provide an update on our payment landscape.
We continue to maintain our disciplined approach to managed care pricing.
Our payment experience with respect to the recently implemented molecular pathology codes has improved but remains challenging.
As we noted last quarter we are experiencing delays in the pricing and coverage decisions related to these codes among various payors including Medicaid Medicare TRICARE and commercial carriers.
These coverage decisions are contrary to long-established standards of care and will ultimately be harmful to patients.
We continue to work diligently with payors to address these payment issues and ACLA and our industry colleagues are fully engaged.
These delays and denials of coverage had a negative impact on revenue; price; operating income; adjusted EPS excluding amortization; and cash flow during the first 9 months of 2013.
And this is incorporated in our 2013 guidance.
Once again the industry is being harmed and the harm is not only to LabCorp but also to hospital labs academic labs and other independent labs.
Our industry cannot and should not be expected to provide critical services to patients without receiving payment.
I would now like to update our progress on each aspect of our Five Pillar Strategy.
The first pillar of our strategy is that we deploy capital to investments that enhance our business and return capital to shareholders.
We repurchased $288 million of our stock during the quarter representing 2.9 million shares.
This brings our total repurchase activity for 2013 to approximately $764 million representing 7.9 million shares.
Our share repurchase to-date brings us closer to our target leverage ratio of 2.5x net-debt-to-EBITDA.
In addition the acquisition pipeline remains attractive.
We remain focused on finding the best strategic fits for our business while maintaining a disciplined approach to valuation.
We believe that acquisitions will be an increasingly attractive way to expand our test menu and geographic footprint for the next several years.
The second pillar of our strategy is to enhance our IT capabilities to improve the physician and patient experience.
We are pleased to announce that Baroma Inc.
the parent company to the first accountable care organization to participate in the Medicare shared savings program in Miami-Dade County Florida has adopted LabCorp's Beacon analytics platform.
After reviewing multiple software products Baroma charge -- Baroma chose our Beacon analytics platform to help them unify the multiple components of population health management.
Baroma will use the scalability and connectivity of LabCorp's analytics solutions to provide primary care physicians with complete access to their patients' health care picture.
Beacon analytics solutions will aid Baroma and other providers in reducing expenses improving outcomes and enhancing patient satisfaction.
We continue to help customers analyze their population health and clinical practice data with new tools for hospitals physician practices and ACOs supplemented with insights derived from our extensive patient database through our Beacon analytics platform.
This platform includes more than 600 clinical quality measures covering MSSP and Physician Quality Reporting System requirements.
We also continue to improve our tools that assist physicians and patients in better understanding test results and optimizing their decision-making.
Patient registrations on our portal continue to grow.
Looking ahead we are expanding the conditions covered by comprehensive clinical reports that integrate and track test results for at-risk patients.
Consistent with our knowledge strategy we are providing health care stakeholders knowledge products that optimize decision-making improve health outcomes and reduce treatment costs.
The third pillar of our strategy is to continue to improve efficiency to offer the most compelling value in laboratory services.
Our initial installation of our Propel robot in our Burlington campus is now complete.
Propel represents a significant investment in innovation that will decrease our labor expense increase throughput and accuracy and enhance specimen management and quality metrics in the lab.
Construction on our new Phoenix campus is complete.
We began consolidation activity and testing operations at this campus in late September.
And we will continue consolidating additional labs into this facility through the remainder of the year.
We have also commenced the installation of our new automated chemistry platform.
The first wave of this enterprise-wide install has been completed in our Burlington and San Diego labs.
Our Raritan lab will begin conversion later this fall.
These instruments enabled by advanced software systems will increase testing throughput and reduce labor and supply expenses.
The fourth pillar of our strategy is to continue scientific innovation at reasonable and appropriate pricing.
We introduced new tests and collaborate with leading companies and academic institutions to provide our physicians and patients with the most scientifically advanced testing in our industry.
As we stated last quarter we will enter the BRCA testing market and we are laying the groundwork and building the database to support the launch of this test during the fourth quarter.
Our BRCA test and the genetic counseling services accompanying it will be powerful tools for the assessment of breast cancer risk.
With 150 genetic counselors on staff LabCorp has by far the world's largest community of skilled professionals trained to analyze assess and interpret genetic test results and communicate them in a meaningful way to physicians and patients.
In addition to our next-generation sequencing offerings for familial cardiac diseases and the preclinical and clinical development of new HIV and HCV antiviral drugs we are pleased to announce that we will offer our first multigene oncology panel on the NGS platform later this year.
The panel improved the sensitivity and detection rates for somatic mutations in cancer assessing more than 2 700 mutations within 50 APA genes and tumor-suppressor genes.
The panel has utility mainly in patients with solid tumors but include some specific applications in leukemia and lymphoma which can help guide physicians in their treatment decisions for these cancers.
Over the next several quarters we will offer more comprehensive oncology panels that include additional content covering liquid tumors gene rearrangements and prognostic and predictive markers.
We will also offer additional targeted tests such as a test for Lynch Syndrome which is an inherited genetic condition associated with increased risk of colorectal cancer.
Important components to our NGS oncology offerings are 2 companion diagnostic tests associated with new cancer drugs.
We recently launched the cobas EGFR Mutation Test a real-time PCR assay designed to detect deletion mutations in exon 19 and the substitution mutation L858R in exon 21.
The cobas EGFR Mutation Test is used as a companion diagnostic for Tarceva and the targeted population is likely to experience clinical benefits compared to patients treated with chemotherapy.
In addition we recently launched the therascreen KRAS test which is the only FDA-approved companion diagnostic for use with ERBITUX in patients with KRAS-mutation-negative wild-type epidermal growth factor receptor expressing metastatic colorectal cancer.
Therascreen KRAS detects the 7 KRAS mutations that have proven clinical applications.
The fifth pillar of our strategy is to integrate our offerings into emerging health care delivery models.
Our strategy to become a knowledge partner has spurred our development of new products and capabilities.
We are very pleased to announce that BeaconLBS recently signed an agreement with UnitedHealthcare to implement its products in Florida.
We anticipate implementation in the latter half of 2014 and we are excited about the benefits to patients physicians and employer groups.
We look forward to updating you on this important initiative over the next several quarters.
In the era of health care reform the critical components of success will be quality cost and a central role in improving patient outcomes.
LabCorp is uniquely positioned to achieve these goals in the years to come.
Now Steve Anderson will review anticipated questions and our specific answers to those questions.
Thank you Dave.
Can you elaborate on LabCorp's capital allocation policy? As we have stated throughout 2013 we are committed to achieving a 2.5x net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio.
We have taken steps toward this goal over the last 2 quarters.
Based on our capital allocation history we target half of our free cash flow for acquisitions and half for share repurchase.
In the absence of a large acquisition over the next year we would anticipate using additional leverage to repurchase shares.
We have a strong history of returning capital to our shareholders.
Over the last decade we have repurchased $5.3 billion of our stock representing 79.7 million shares at a price of approximately $67.
Why are capital expenditures expected to be so high in 2013? We typically spend approximately 3% of revenue on capital expenditures.
Our capital expenditure increase in 2013 is driven by near-term investments in facility consolidation and replacement of a major testing platform.
What is included in and excluded from your 2013 guidance? Our 2013 guidance includes the negative impact of approximately $0.35 due to Medicare payment reductions.
In addition our guidance includes the negative impact of molecular pathology payment issues which is not included in the $0.35 that I just mentioned.
And our guidance excludes the impact of any share repurchase activity after September 30 2013.
Can you remind us of how drugs-of-abuse volume trended during the year? In the third quarter our drugs-of-abuse volume increased approximately 14% year-over-year excluding the impact of the MEDTOX acquisition.
This compares to a year-over-year increase of 10.6% in Q2 of 2013 10.2% in Q1 of 2013 and 6.8% in Q4 of 2012.
We also delivered strong year-over-year growth this quarter in our wellness and pain management businesses which fall within our occupational testing services operations.
We believe wellness and pain management testing will provide a great growth opportunity for LabCorp over the next several years.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Steve and thank you very much for listening.
We are now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Gary Lieberman of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] of the molecular pathology payment issues? Gary sorry the only thing we heard in your question was molecular pathology payment issues.
Can you state it again please? LLC Research Division</strong> Sorry I was wondering if you could quantify what the negative impact is from it for the year? No.
We haven't quantified it specifically  in large part because our hope is we'll see continued improvement.
So I'm just not prepared to do that right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But conceivably if the issues get worked out are you optimistic that you could recoup the payments that you haven't received or you think it would only be fixed sort of going forward? I think we feel that if the issues are worked out we have the opportunity to recoup the payments that we -- that have been delayed.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are you optimistic that happens before the end of the year or you think it takes longer than that? I think some of it would be resolved by the end of the year and some of it will go over into next year.
There are multiple payors multiple issues it's a complex discussion.
We've had a terrific team working on it from our side and we've had great collaboration in terms of the payors being willing to listen to us and try to work with us but I don't think it's realistic to think we'll get it all resolved in the next couple of months.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the volume experience it seems like your experience is somewhat more positive than your largest competitor.
Do you think that -- do you think you guys are taking share or what -- what if anything do you think you could attribute that to? I'm not going to speculate on things like taking share.
I'm going to tell you that I think our volume experience is based on exceptional operational focus and execution.
We have a terrific team of senior leaders in this company starting from the men and women who run the operating divisions going down through the sales leadership going down to the sales force feet on the street.
And we have been talking to them throughout 2013 about the importance of growth.
And what you're seeing is just excellent execution excellent blocking and tackling on a day-to-day basis in every aspect of our business and that's where the volume is coming from.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So maybe if I ask it another way.
Do you feel like you guys are growing faster than the overall market or is the growth accelerated from last year? How do you feel about that? I think the utilization environment has improved.
I think some of the initiatives that we've put in place particularly around things like our wellness testing are bearing fruit.
And again I think we are focusing on the growth opportunities.
And with everybody's shoulder to the wheel on the operational team we're performing very well.
The next question comes from the line of Hima Inguva of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I would like to know your thoughts on consolidation within lab space.
Your main competitor has been reporting soft quarters the past few quarters so I would like to know if you would be open to a large transformation acquisition if a right strategic target comes along? I think we are always open to acquisitions.
And acquisitions have historically been an important part of the first pillar of our strategy based both on the ability to expand our test menu and on the ability to expand our footprint.
So we're open to the opportunity to make any acquisition that will benefit our long-term strategy.
The key factors are: is the asset attractive is it strategic for us and is the valuation appropriate.
And within those parameters we would consider whatever came along that would be interesting to us.
Research Division</strong> And as a follow-up do you have any target range in terms of size and your commitment to investment grade ratings? Well target range in terms of size as we have historically mentioned we think about -- in a typical year or I should say in kind of a -- over a typical period of years that half of our free cash flow goes to acquisitions and half of it goes to share repurchase.
Obviously we have done some sizable transactions in the past.
We are proud of -- and our investment-grade credit rating we think it remains important in this environment.
And it's always something that we take into consideration when we think about transactions.
The next question comes from the line of Bill Bonello of Craig-Hallum.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
Brad are you going to buy a baseball team? Good question Bill.
Probably not.
I might work in the stands there.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I think that would be fitting.
Couple of other questions.
Just a follow-up on the molecular coding question I just want to make sure I understand the accounting there.
I know you got into this a little bit last quarter I think it was.
But am I right that for at least some of these denials or delays you are not recording the revenues.
So you're performing the test you're not recording the revenue you're incurring the expense.
So that if you did eventually get paid that would just sort of flow through to pretax or is that a misunderstanding? Bill this is Brad.
That's a correct understanding.
I mean given the situation and the uncertainty we have recorded reserves against that revenue based on what we think we're ultimately going to collect but a lot of that has a pessimistic view on it given what we've heard recently.
But we continue to work with payors as Dave said in a very focused way.
And it is payor-by-payor to get a more favorable outcome of the initial reactions.
I would say that generally speaking and again it's different for every payor but generally speaking the updates that I get on a very regular basis suggest that a number of payors are still being educated on exactly what the change was.
So even though we're in October of this year we're still spending a lot of time educating payors on what happened what was it like last year what is it like this year and are working to have that turn in our favor.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then Dave just wondering if you could add a little bit more color on the Baroma and UNH relationships? Maybe give us some sense of how that economic model works and whether there's any kind of a network component to what you're doing with either of those organizations? Well Bill with Baroma it's the parent company of Medicare Shared Savings ACO.
There is an economic component.
I'm not prepared to discuss it separately but I think it's an economic component that will be rewarding both for us and for Baroma.
And with BeaconLBS again as we said we've -- BeaconLBS has signed the contract with United.
Implementation will be in 2014 and we'll give updates as we get closer to the implementation date in terms of what that entails and what it means.
But again we see the opportunity to benefit physicians patients and employer groups in the administration of lab services in that market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But not -- don't -- I mean should we -- it sounds like you just don't want to say maybe yet or don't know but I mean it could potentially just be the analytical support piece or -- and not some kind of preferred lab network or -- I mean just trying to think how we would think about that? Let's say that I prefer not to say.
The next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Dave you mentioned that you would bring the BRCA test to launch in the fourth quarter.
Can you maybe just talk about what your expectations would be as far as garnering market share around that test as we move through '14? It's a big day for questions about market share isn't it Lisa? We have some assessment of what we think the market is and what we think the opportunity is.
And I don't think it benefits anybody to -- well I don't think it benefits us to kind of go into a lot of detail about that.
Let me just say that I think there is a desire in the market for alternatives.
We are very focused on not only the validation of this test but particularly the ability to call the variance of unknown significance.
The genetic counselors provide us with I think a substantial differentiation in the marketplace and we have not only the largest but I think the best terrific team of genetic counselors to support our reproductive genetic works.
So I think there will be the opportunity to make a substantial impact in that market and we look forward to the launch of the test when we're satisfied that we're ready.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my second question would just be around the Affordable Care Act and moving into 2014 especially on the exchange side.
Clearly you have a very large partner in United.
But my question is around one are there separate contracts for the exchanges? And then secondly are you seeing narrow networks around the exchanges and would you expect that you'll see an increase in volume based on who your partners are in the market? So far I don't think we're being asked to contract separately for the exchanges.
There has been a lot of talk about the narrowing of networks but I think this is very much a work in process and I think 2014 will be the year of learning for all of us about the exchanges.
I mean I was certainly reviewing some of the exchange literature recently.
And for example the -- some of the bronze plans have no out-of-network benefit except for emergency room services.
The silver and gold plans have higher benefits which suggest broader networks.
So I just really think this is going to be a learning experience for us and for everybody else during 2014.
And I think it would be very hard to talk specifically about expectations but we are committed through our partners to serving the exchanges and look at that in the long term certainly as an opportunity for further growth.
Research Division</strong> And are you still positive Dave on the long-term opportunities around ACA? Absolutely.
I mean we're going to have more patients who have coverage we're going to have fewer uninsured.
And we think in -- at LabCorp about driving innovation across scale driving opportunity across scale and driving growth across scale.
And so more people with insurance coverage gives us more opportunity to grow.
The next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So one follow-up on the molecular diagnostic issues.
I mean set aside the delay in payments.
When you kind of like think kind of like forward-looking into 2014 are you now at kind of like a new kind of like re-based with payors commercial payors as well where in the future you're just not going to run these additional tests? So just trying to understand kind of like what it means just for the opportunity longer term? Ricky it's Dave.
I think it's too early to talk about how we would address the problem if we ended up being told "You're just not going to get paid for this " because I'm not prepared to concede at this point that we're not going to get paid.
So as I said on the last quarter call and repeated on this call I would hate to see patients deprived of needed services based on payment policies that are contrary to standards of care and contrary to historic payment policies.
And I would hate to see labs put in the position of having to decide whether to perform those services or not.
But to go back to Bill's question we perform the test we incur the expense we realize no revenue that puts us in a difficult situation as well.
So it's too early to say definitively how we would address that but I will say I think it's very important for payors to realize the implications of these decisions and to reconsider whether this is really the outcome that they want for their patients.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with the first 2 weeks you kind of talked about this shutdown the clinical lab fee schedule has been kind of like on hold.
Do you have any updates on when we should expect it to be out? I do not and I don't know whether there'll be any delay as a result of the government shutdown.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Ellich of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Dave I guess first off could you talk about Canada kind of what opportunities do you see on the horizon? Specifically I saw something in the news about Alberta Health Services is planning to maybe privatize its whole lab business and that could be -- it looks like it could be very significant maybe worth $3 billion over 15 years.
Is that something you guys have seen yet? Kevin this is Brad.
Obviously we've followed that situation closely.
We are partners in the private lab that's already in Alberta that has part of that work today.
So there is an opportunity for that work to grow based on that proposal that's out there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when you say the private lab you're talking about DynaLIFE Brad? Yes yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But that's not majority-owned though is that correct? That's correct.
Around 44% or so LabCorp owned.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Got it.
And then since I have you Brad just wondering the toxicology business is obviously growing pretty nicely with wellness and pain management as well.
Just wondering that is lower-price business right? Yes.
Research Division</strong> So if we backed out that growth wondering what your rev-per-req growth would look like? Instead of down 1.9% would it have been down maybe like 1%? Have you done that math? Yes we're not sharing exactly those specifics but it's obviously one of the categories.
I mean the government reductions are probably one significant component the MoPath issues that we talk about.
And then the third is the one you mentioned that's the growth of business that's roughly half of the average-price business so it's obviously a large moving part.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then Dave just kind of conceptually big picture.
I know you believe that the industry will eventually get back to the 4% to 6% organic growth.
Just wondering kind of what are your latest thoughts on how far out that could be or how close we could be to getting back to that type of organic growth.
Well I think I have said 4% to 6% top line growth so there's -- so some of that's revenue some of that's organic volume some of that potentially is acquisition volume Kevin.
But my answer is we had a nice quarter from a revenue and a volume perspective here.
We had the pricing issues that I think everybody pretty much knew about.
But it does give me greater optimism that we're returning to a time in which we would see better top line industry growth.
Now as I said before I think 2014 is going to be a learning year for everybody because of the implementation of the ACA the exchanges the challenges that have -- people have experienced so far in signing up for the public exchanges.
So I think it's going to be wait-and-see for 2014.
But I think we're going to see continued improvement in trends and that -- the center point is lab services are vital to the health care system.
They're a fraction of the cost at 2%.
They -- the lab values are 50% of the data elements in patient's electronic health records.
And our industry is going to continue to be a vital contributor to the improvement of health care in the U.S.
And that to me implies that we will see top line growth.
The next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dave I was interested in your comments regarding the oncology panel you guys are working on.
Was hoping you could maybe put some color around your strategy there and anything you could offer with regards to how you plan to price that test and where you think you need to be competitively to be effective in the marketplace in terms of service levels and genetic content that kind of stuff.
I don't think we're prepared to talk about pricing at this point because obviously that's a discussion with payors.
But I certainly think there is increasing evidence about the value of assessing tumors through next-generation sequencing methodology.
I think that our outstanding team of clinicians and scientists has focused on not what's the broadest spectrum that we could test but what are the key things the key genes that need to be looked at and the key items within the tumor that need to be evaluated.
And in that context have as I mentioned selected these 50 APA genes and tumor-suppressor genes or approximately 50 APA genes and tumor select -- suppressor genes to look at 2 700 important and powerful mutations.
So this is our -- this will be our initial launch.
We will continue to add content and services.
Again I go back to our genetic counselors I go back to the number of tests that we perform and the size of the databases that we bring to bear.
And I think LabCorp has a very very important role to play in better diagnosis and treatment of complex cancer.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And if I could just ask a follow-up there.
Conceptually we're still obviously as you pointed out learning what these tests can be used for.
But it seems to me structurally that they're very complicated tests to run.
So what I'm interested to know is if you have a strong view as to how much of gene-based cancer diagnostics will be done by centralized labs versus these distributed products because you've got a lot of sequencing companies trying to come up with kitted versions of cancer diagnostics that might be distributed out to hospital labs.
And it just seems like to me that this is a market that would really require a more specialized central lab.
So do you have a strong view as to sort of how much will get done centralized versus distributed? I'd be interested in that.
I agree with your view.
I mean I think it'll -- I think this will be -- these are complex and sophisticated tests.
They require a high degree of specialization and so I think the centralized scale reference laboratory is going to be the obvious place to perform them.
I also think that the ability to interpret and deliver the content is going to be absolutely critical and you're going to need to see enough of these to be able to develop a robust database and robust content.
And again I think we're in an excellent position to do that.
The next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor of Citi.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First do you have any update just kind of on your outlook for the pathology cuts on the physician fee schedule for '14? And anything new since the last call on the possible re-basing of the clinical lab fee schedule in '15? On the OPPS proposal ACLA and a number of other groups have met with CMS and expressed our views.
In addition a letter went to CMS from -- signed by 115 congressmen.
There is a similar letter that is I believe being circulated in the Senate or has been sent already signed by 36 senators asking CMS to withdraw the proposal.
So I think there's been a very very solid effort to identify the policy issues that we believe are not correctly stated within the proposed rule.
And I think the fact that 115 members of Congress and 36 senators have agreed with us and signed a letter asking to withdraw the proposal is evidence that we've made substantial progress on that front.
In terms of the clinical lab fee schedule proposal as mentioned previously the government has been shut down for the last couple of weeks.
There are a large number of proposals circulating and ACLA and the laboratory industry continue to be very very much involved in trying to shape the discussion about the future of the clinical lab fee schedule.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two quick questions maybe for Brad.
Is there any chance you could give us acquisition spend for the third quarter? Gary I don't have that in front of me but it's not a lot.
I think year-to-date it's $100 million.
I think in the third quarter it was very small.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when you -- I just want to recall correctly when you talk about kind of the 2% organic volume MEDTOX is the only thing that's being excluded? Are some of these smaller tuck-in acquisitions included or excluded from that number? Small tuck-in acquisitions would be included in the organic number.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then last question.
I know the 4Q earnings guidance excludes any repurchase after the end of the quarter.
How much would the diluted share count drop sequentially even if you did no additional share repurchase? In other words just trying to think about the timing of the repurchase through the -- throughout the third quarter.
Would you naturally have an additional sequential decline in share count even without additional share repurchase? Yes because you'd get the full impact of the ones that we bought in any quarter.
That would bring down the share count in a subsequent quarter by being fully outstanding for that amount of time.
Research Division</strong> Well off the top of your head do you have a number in mind for diluted share count? Or what's the diluted share count implied in the 4Q? I don't have that raw off the top of my head.
But I mean if we'd just kind of use a half-quarter convention you could think that what we bought in the third quarter was half outstanding in the third and would be fully outstanding in the fourth.
The next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Brad glad to see you're joining Wes Elingburg in that great campground of retirement but good luck to you there.
Question for Dave just you had a nice return on the FMI investment stake.
Is there much behind that in terms of other investments we should focus on with the equity markets now open and more deals coming out there? And maybe if not why isn't that an opportunity for you to make some investments in these technology companies given your access and view on all of the new thoughts that are out there? Yes Bob we have made a number of investments over time and we'll continue to make them.
We look at opportunities that we think are interesting from a technological perspective opportunities that we think are interesting from a testing perspective and opportunities that we think are attractive from a strategic perspective.
So we've had -- like most investors we've had some successes and some failures.
We had a couple of nice successes recently and this will continue to be an important part of our strategy as we think about how we stay abreast of what's going on in the market.
Research Division</strong> How many shots on goal maybe just to help us think about the opportunity? I mean are there 10 active investments or half that amount? I mean how do we think about the potential opportunity? Bob this as Adam.
Just -- yes I mean if you think about any portfolio we have several active investments.
I don't want to give you a precise number but from the range you gave I'd say you're in the right ballpark.
So you wouldn't look for us to have hundreds of things out there so I think the ballpark you gave is accurate.
And as Dave said we continue to look for opportunities that create -- that are strategic for us and we'll continue to think about that.
The next question comes from the line of Amanda Murphy of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question on some of the dynamics that we haven't talked about in a little while.
But in terms of hospitals buying doc practices and in-sourcing lab testing and then generally physicians in-sourcing testing and sort of general follow-up from the TC Grandfather Clause just curious if you could update us on those 3 dynamics at this point.
Amanda it's Dave.
I mean I would say that health systems acquiring physicians is a continuing trend.
I do think it's diminishing in the sense that a lot of those deals have been done and health systems are now trying to figure out exactly what they're going to do now that they've acquired these practices and the doctors are trying to figure out what they're going to do.
Physician in-sourcing continues to be a -- particularly around pathology continues to be a theme.
Again I think the most significant part of that has abated but it's still out there in the marketplace.
TC Grandfather in my mind is done.
It happened.
We've absorbed the impact and we've moved on.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then just as a follow-up to Kevin's question earlier on just long-term growth trends or rates in the industry.
It used to be that you were able to drive a couple percentage points of revenue-per-req growth just the mix shift to esoteric testing.
I'm just curious as you're launching some of these newer tests is that a dynamic that we might see again not necessarily that growth rate but just an impact from esoteric percentages going up over time? Yes I think it is.
I mean we don't launch esoteric tests because they're esoteric or because of their price point.
We launch them because they are clinically relevant and medically necessary.
Certainly there's the opportunity to see benefit from the mix there.
As Brad mentioned the wellness and pain management testing while we still get a very nice margin from that testing on a pure price perspective is lower than our overall book.
And the reductions that we've received from the government are pretty much unprecedented and that has a major impact on revenue per requisition as well as on margin.
So there are many puts and takes to pricing and positive mix certainly is one of those things that is an opportunity in the mid to longer term.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just last one on M&amp;A.
Obviously that's been a driver for you guys for a while.
I mean how do think about that too in the longer term? That's something that essentially with some of these pricing changes that are going on do you see that being an avenue for growth over the longer term? Yes I think as I said in the prepared remarks and said in response to an earlier question M&amp;A and acquisitions are going to be I think important for us going forward.
The next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci [ph] of FBR.
I just had a couple of things I want to clarify real quick and maybe one question after that.
On the molecular -- on the impact of the molecular-related issues do you describe that as sort of getting a little bit better or the same or getting worse versus let's say the last quarter? Tom it's Dave.
I think it's getting a little bit better.
Little bit better okay.
I thought that's what you said.
And then I don't know if I missed it but was there any meaningful intra-quarter trend on volumes or particular volatility as we've heard maybe some describe out there that you saw? Tom we don't talk about volumes within the quarter or trends within the quarter so I'm not in a position to respond to that.
Okay.
And then just the last one Dave.
I know you've talked in the past about sort of diversifying revenue streams a bit maybe a little bit away from government-oriented reimbursement for good reason.
MEDTOX clearly seems to have been a home run of a deal.
As you think about the acquisition environment going forward should we be thinking about acquisitions that are more skewed away from some of the core clinical testing that we've seen in the past and towards these other types of areas or even international? Or do you still expect it to sort of be a blend that you've done in the past? I think it'll be a blend.
I mean when we talk about the knowledge strategy and creating knowledge for health care stakeholders that's how we think about the way that we can diversify revenue as again things like the Baroma relationship and BeaconLBS and other tools that we're developing.
So I don't think about that as going out and buying non-lab assets for the purpose of diversifying revenue.
Because one of the things I think we're good at is running laboratories and be careful about buying things that we're not good at just so we can get away from our traditional mix.
Having said that I look 5 years down the road and we certainly will be a more global company we need to be.
I mean it's a global world and health care is a global business and so we need to figure out how to participate more broadly in international markets.
I don't foresee a big acquisition there but I foresee -- we do business in 40 countries today.
I see the opportunity to expand that presence.
And continuing to look for strategic opportunities within our own markets will be a very important part of long-term growth for us.
The next question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted just to pick your brain a little bit Dave just get your thoughts on what business model you think is resonating the most within the hospital channel just in terms of the offerings that you're bringing to market there.
You obviously broadened your -- in Northern California.
Do you think that's the primary mode of consolidation within that realm? Do you think JVs are too cumbersome for health systems? How's your ability to co-manage labs? Just want to get your thoughts in sort of what's resonating out there.
I think there's a broad range of offerings for health systems ranging from acquisition at the one end to JVs at the other end.
I think health systems are becoming increasingly focused on what the financial characteristics of the laboratory are particularly the capital needs required there and the space needs and how they can potentially deploy those assets more effectively within their core competencies.
That means some will sell some will ask us to manage their laboratories some will just want to send us reference work.
I agree with you Darren.
I think JVs with large health systems are complex but that doesn't mean they can't be done we have several.
So from our perspective it's the broadest -- the willingness to participate in the broadest range of potential offerings the willingness to do what makes the most sense to the health system in terms of optimizing its ability to provide the highest quality lab services at the most effective cost.
Research Division</strong> And I guess the follow-up then would just be your -- or how different are the conversations today? I mean you bring up capital and space constraints.
Obviously there's reimbursement issues perhaps down the road but just the unit cost still is pretty different.
So I'm curious how that conversation is changing if at all as you talk to health systems.
Well when I started 7 years ago I'm sure everyone can remember that I was very very optimistic about how the health system would -- how lab work would migrate from hospitals to independent labs.
And 7 years later I've relearned one of the great truths of health care which is everything takes a lot longer than we think it will.
So I just -- we're having constructive conversations.
Hospitals and health systems are more capital constrained.
They're seeing reimbursement come down.
They too have been cut significantly by the government over the last 2-year cycle.
And we're just going to continue to press ahead with this strategic focus.
And ultimately I think there's great opportunity for growth there.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then just my last question really just to clarify your comments on BeaconLBS and the United arrangement.
Congrats for signing that.
The question here though is is this something that will be part of a benefit design for 2014 or is this for the 2015 year? And if the latter do you think you'll have more health plan customers signed up for the selling season for next year? We've said that we expect implementation in the latter part of 2014 and that's what we're going to say right now.
And we'll provide you with further information over the next several quarters.
So 2 minutes past the top of the hour here and we'd like to try to take everybody's questions.
We do want wrap up though.
So please let's try to ask questions that haven't been asked and answered already and let's be brief.
The next question comes from the line of Glen Santangelo from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I'll be quick.
My question was on margins.
The margins probably came in a little bit lower than I would have thought on volumes that were probably a little bit stronger than I would have thought.
And so I'm just kind of curious if you can give us a little bit more color on those margins and what your expectations are going forward.
Glen it's Brad.
For the reasons that we mentioned in the call that relate to revenue per requisition as well as price when we look through what's going on with the margins those are the major drivers.
So very much the reductions revenue reductions that we've talked about are the culprit there.
And as Dave mentioned earlier as we think about the opportunity over time I mean it has been a reimbursement challenge as you know for the reasons that we've mentioned.
But we continue to believe that the margin characteristics of the business are attractive going forward from driving standardization and innovation over our scale.
So bumpy time from the reimbursement perspective but it's there.
The next question comes from the line of Dane Leone of Macquarie.
In the same vein as the previous question but just thinking about the operating expense leverage that the business model has I guess in light of some of the innovations you're putting in automation and the labs going forward.
As volumes as organic volumes come back hopefully supported by ACA in 2014 what's your kind of guess of how much variable costs will still need to come back on? I mean I think you're operating from a fairly low volume perspective historically so we would I guess expect to see some leverage there.
Any color is helpful.
I think again it definitely relates to the reimbursement environment.
But from a leverage and the cost perspective I mean we have the variable costs of the reagents and the supplies that we use.
But our infrastructure is still there and visiting lots of accounts and picking up samples every day.
So I think to the extent that can organically grow there's a tremendous amount of leverage that's there.
The next question comes from the line of A.J.
Rice of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I was going to ask you about maybe any comment you have early days obviously but the Walgreens announcement to begin to try to offer clinical lab services through their retail outlets as part of their minute clinic type of approach.
And I mean they are talking about being disruptive to the clinical lab industry.
How -- what do you think of that? And then also with the other retail drug chains that offer similar type of service is there any opportunity for you to partner with any of them? Have you thought about that? It's Dave.
So we have in the past had partnering relationships with a number of the in-store clinics.
They're not economically very productive for us.
The testing menu is extremely limited the demand for when you come pick up specimens is high.
And you end up sending a courier at an odd hour to pick up one specimen.
It just -- that model is not a -- the in-store clinic model is an acute -- to me is a model of you take care of an acute problem like an earache or a flu shot or something.
It's not really like even an urgent care clinic where there's a significant number of blood draws.
With respect to Walgreens my understanding is that what they're doing in this pilot at least in the one store is they're just going to have a phlebotomist there who's going to draw blood and send it to a reference lab just like we do.
And again I think from the perspective of convenience accuracy cost I still think that the reference lab model in the long run is going to be the most successful.
So we're always aware of what others are doing and have interesting innovations and we'll continue to watch this closely.
The next question comes from the line of Nicholas Jansen of Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on guidance.
What's the primary delta between where your guidance is today relative to when you issued original guidance back in February? You've done over $750 million of buybacks yet the midpoint of EPS is unchanged.
So relative to your initial expectations is the entire delta just the molecular pathology coding changes or is there something else there that's kind of not played out as you originally anticipated? Nicholas this is Brad.
That is the delta you've nailed it.
I would now like to hand the call back to David King Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Clinton.
In closing here today obviously we had a significant announcement about Brad's retirement.
And I was reflecting with him yesterday afternoon it's really a sad day for me.
I remember what I first met Brad and I think it was 1996 and since then we have worked together on a professional and a personal level in an extraordinary way.
Brad has been a phenomenal contributor to this company and to our industry in a period of great transformation.
He was the head of billing here.
When he came here bad debt was 11%.
We literally were struggling to get the bills out the door.
And what we've accomplished with his leadership under -- as head of billing and as Chief Financial Officer when Wes stepped down is really exceptional.
So I don't say this about a lot of people at LabCorp but Brad has been a stalwart here.
And I know I speak for the whole team in saying we will really really miss him deeply and wish him and his family well.
And with that we thank you for listening to our call and wish you a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes your call for today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining.
Have a very good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2013 Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Glenn and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
David King Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Please proceed Mr.
King.
Thank you Glenn.
Good morning and welcome to LabCorp's Fourth Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Joining me today from LabCorp are Brad Hayes Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Ed Dodson Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; Adam Feinstein Senior Vice President Corporate Development and Strategy; and Steve Anderson Vice President Investor Relations.
This morning we will discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2013 financial results update 2014 guidance highlight our progress on our five pillar strategy and provide answers to several frequently asked questions.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Steve Anderson who has a few comments before we begin.
Before we get started I would like to point out that there will be a replay of this conference call available via telephone and Internet.
Please refer to today's press release for replay information.
This morning the company filed a Form 8-K that included additional information on our business and operations.
This information is also available on our website.
Analysts and investors are directed to this 8-K and our website to review this supplemental information.
Additionally we refer you to today's press release which is available on our website for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call to GAAP.
These non-GAAP measures include adjusted EPS excluding amortization free cash flow and adjusted operating income.
I would also like to point out that we are making forward-looking statements during this conference call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results the implementation of our business strategy and the ongoing benefits from acquisitions.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect the company's financial results.
Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our 2012 10-K and subsequent filings.
The company has no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now Brad Hayes will review our financial results.
Thank you Steve.
On today's call I will review 4 key measures of our financial performance: Cash flow revenue growth margin and liquidity.
I'll also update our 2014 guidance.
First cash flow.
Our cash flow continues to be solid.
Free cash flow for the 12 months ended December 31 2013 was $616.5 million.
DSO at the end of December was 49 days which was down 1 day sequentially.
In addition to our run rate bad debt expense during the fourth quarter we increased our allowance for doubtful accounts by $5 million due to an increase in patient responsibility.
For the year our bad debt expense was 4.4% of revenue compared with 4.3% in 2012.
As we've previously discussed our 2014 guidance assumes a slight increase in our bad debt rate.
Second revenue growth.
Revenue increased 2.3% year-over-year in the fourth quarter.
During the quarter total company volume increased 5%.
Organic volume increased approximately 2% year-over-year.
Revenue per requisition was flat sequentially but decreased 2.6% year-over-year.
It is important to note that managed care revenue per requisition increased year-over-year and was flat sequentially.
Third margin.
For the fourth quarter our adjusted operating income margin was 15.2% compared to 17.2% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
During the fourth quarter government payment reductions and molecular pathology payment issues reduced our year-over-year margins by approximately 170 basis points reduced year-over-year revenue per requisition by approximately 2% and reduced year-over-year operating cash flow by more than $30 million.
Also growth in our toxicology business reduced year-over-year revenue per requisition by approximately 2% in the fourth quarter.
Fourth liquidity.
We remain well-capitalized.
At the end of December we had cash of $404 million and no borrowings outstanding under our $1 billion credit facility.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased $251.6 million of stock representing 2.5 million shares.
For the full year of 2013 the company repurchased approximately $1 billion of stock representing 10.4 million shares.
At the end of December approximately $1.1 billion of repurchased authorization remained under our share repurchase program.
Our share repurchase activity reflects our continued disciplined capital allocation program and commitment to return capital to our shareholders.
This morning we updated our 2014 financial guidance.
We expect revenue growth of approximately 2%; adjusted EPS excluding amortization of $6.35 to $6.65; operating cash flow of approximately $780 million to $820 million; and capital expenditures of approximately $185 million to $205 million.
The guidance excludes the impact of any share repurchase activity after December 31 2013.
There's already been an unusual amount of inclement weather in the first quarter of 2014.
Our guidance does not take into account business losses due to weather.
Consistent with our past practice we will comment on the impact of weather to our performance during our earnings releases.
I will now turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Brad.
We are pleased with our fourth quarter results.
During the quarter we grew volume 5% on organic volume by approximately 2% and we continue to execute well on our key growth initiatives.
Although our nominal revenue per requisition was down 2.6% year-over-year managed care revenue per requisition increased year-over-year and was flat versus last quarter.
The drag on year-over-year revenue per requisition was due to government reimbursement reductions molecular pathology payment issues and test mix.
We repurchased $251.6 million of our shares demonstrating our commitment to our stated capital allocation objective to return capital to shareholders.
We are also pleased with our full year 2013 results particularly when we take into account the significant government payment reductions and the unexpected reimbursement issues related to new molecular pathology codes that we faced through the year.
As a reminder our reported results for the year were negatively impacted by Medicare payment reductions and molecular pathology payment issues that lowered revenue by approximately $100 million and adjusted EPS excluding amortization by $0.68.
Finally during 2013 we repurchased approximately $1 billion of our stock representing 10.4 million shares.
I would now like to update our progress on each aspect of our five-pillar strategy.
The first pillar of our strategy is that we deploy capital to investments that enhance our business and return capital to shareholders.
I have just reviewed our share repurchase activity during the fourth quarter and the year.
Our share repurchase to date brings us closer to our target leverage ratio of 2.5x debt to EBITDA.
In addition our acquisition pipeline remains attractive and we believe that components of health care reform will drive consolidation in our industry.
Thus acquisition should provide an attractive way to expand our test menu and geographic footprint for the next several years.
We will maintain a disciplined approach to valuation as we look for the best strategic opportunities.
The second pillar of our strategy is to enhance our IT capabilities to improve the physician and patient experience.
We continue to enhance our Beacon analytics platform for managing practice and population health data as we add new clients and plans to the platform.
This platform helps clients unify the multiple components of population health management providing primary care physicians with complete access to their patients' health care picture rules for monitoring gaps and care and reporting that addresses more than 600 quality measures.
Beacon Analytics helps providers reduce expenses improve outcomes and enhance patient satisfaction.
The robust rules engine is highly-customizable and provides compliance with meaningful use requirements as well as ACO Joint Commission on accreditation of health care organizations and physician quality reporting system reporting requirements.
These industry-leading data-driven services position LabCorp as a trusted partner to health care stakeholders providing knowledge to optimize decision-making improve health outcomes and reduce treatment costs.
We also continue to improve our tools to assist physicians and patients in understanding test results and optimizing decision-making.
We introduced a new report format for Pap results which provides a result history chart and improves clarity of results delivery.
In addition we now have more than 400 000 registrations on our patient portal and this figure continues to grow every day.
Looking ahead we will expand the conditions covered by our comprehensive clinical reports that integrate and track test results for at-risk patients.
We will continue help customers analyze their population health and clinical practice data with new tools for hospitals physician practices and ACOs supplemented with insights derived from our extensive patient database.
We are working with clients to use our data to benchmark ordering patterns and to determine preclinical markers in specific diseases.
Insights gained from these efforts help payors and physicians better manage health care expenses and patient outcomes.
The third pillar of our strategy is to continue to improve efficiency to offer the most compelling value in laboratory services.
The second installation of our Propel robot is underway at our major laboratory in Tampa.
Propel has begun to drive expense reductions increase throughput and accuracy and enhance specimen management at our Burlington lab.
We continue to consolidate facilities into our new Phoenix campus and we are now processing more than 23 000 specimens per day at this state-of-the-art facility.
We have continued the installation of our new automated chemistry platform and upgrades have now been completed in our Burlington Phoenix San Diego and Seattle labs.
Our Raritan New Jersey lab will be converted later this quarter.
These instruments enabled by advanced software systems are expected to increase testing throughput and reduce labor and supply expenses.
Finally as part of our ongoing commitment to efficiency we have begun a comprehensive enterprise-wide review of our cost structure.
The fourth pillar of our strategy is to continue scientific innovation at reasonable and appropriate pricing.
We introduced new tests and collaborate with leading companies and academic institutions to provide our physicians and patients with the most scientifically-advanced testing in our industry.
We launched 152 new tests in 2013 many of which we expect to drive growth in our genomic and oncology testing businesses.
This reflects our commitment to offer products and services on the cutting-edge of science as well as our strategy to develop real revenue growth opportunities.
One such growth opportunity relates to our recent entry into the sizable bracket testing market which is composed of a suite of test for the assessment of breast cancer risk that the payor community values and reimburses.
Our bracket test menu now includes a comprehensive panel of BRCA 1 and 2 complete gene sequence analysis and deletion duplication testing targeted analysis test for other family members once a mutation is identified and a panel for mutations prevalent among the Ashkenazi Jewish population.
Our BRCA testing capabilities and services give physicians and patients powerful tools to better comprehend and predict breast cancer risk.
In combination with our care coordination pre-authorization service LabCorp offers an end-to-end program that includes compliance with insurance requirements comprehensive testing and expert interpretation from our license directors and a team of 122 Board-certified genetic counselors and 9 medical geneticists.
We expanded our next-generation sequencing test menu by launching our first multi-gene oncology panel.
The intelligent assay provides an assessment of targetable mutations with a panel profile of 50 cancer genes known to be involved in the development progression and treatment of cancers.
IntelliGEN will be useful tool to multiple clinical settings including when guideline-recommended biomarker evaluations yield no targeted therapeutic option when relapse or disease progression occurs or when a tumor is poorly differentiated and have a uncertain origin.
We continue to expand our oncology offerings to enhance our women's health initiatives.
We recently lost the Prosigna Breast Cancer Prognostic Gene Signature Assay an FDA-cleared assay developed by NanoString Technologies Inc.
This test enters a large existing market and is routinely by the payor community.
Studies showed that Prosigna is able to better categorize high-risk patients providing more prognostic clarity than other predictive breast cancer assays.
The fifth pillar of our strategy is the development of knowledge services.
LabCorp recently performed a comprehensive retrospective study involving over 55 000 patients comparing the treatment of patients enrolled in our innovative chronic kidney disease management program with those patients diagnosed with CKD who were not in the program.
The study showed that patients who were enrolled in LabCorp's CKD program showed an approximate 10 percentage points increase in compliance with guideline-recommended testing meaning that their physicians were more closely monitoring their disease state and progression.
The study concluded that the use of a laboratory-based point-of-care CKD clinical decision support program is associated with increased compliance with guideline-recommended disease monitoring particularly among primary care physicians.
LabCorp leads the industry in the development of decision-support tools for kidney stones CKD and coagulation as well as for cardiovascular risk assessment.
These tools are an important differentiator and we will continue to develop them and integrate them into the fifth pillar of our strategy.
We have also begun work with United Healthcare to implement BeaconLBS across its physician and patient base in Florida.
We remain on schedule to launch the program in the latter half of 2014 and we are excited about the valuable services that BeaconLBS will provide physicians patients and payors.
Health care reform is upon us and delivery systems continues to change.
The critical components of success will be quality efficiency scale and a central role in improving patient outcomes.
LabCorp is uniquely-positioned to achieve these goals in the years to come.
Now Steve Anderson will review anticipated questions and our specific answers to those questions.
Thank you Dave.
Can you elaborate on LabCorp's capital allocation policy? As we have stated we are committed to achieving a 2.5x debt-to-EBITDA ratio and we have taken steps toward this goal over the last year.
Based on our capital allocation history we target half of our free cash flow for acquisitions and half for share repurchase.
In the absence of a large acquisition over the next year we would anticipate using additional leverage to repurchase shares.
We have a strong history of returning capital to our shareholders.
Over the last decade we have repurchased $5.4 billion of our stock representing 76.9 million shares at a price of approximately $71.
How big of an opportunity is the recently-released Alberta RFP? The size of this opportunity is approximately $200 million annually and the RFP is for a sole-source private provider.
DynaLIFE is currently the sole-source private provider in Alberta and we are a minority partner in this business.
The performance of this strength venture is captured on the equity method income line item on our P&amp;L and is not consolidated into a revenue line.
Can you remind us of how drugs of abuse volume trended during the year? In the fourth quarter our drugs of abuse volume increased approximately 15% year-over-year.
This compares to a year-over-year increase of 14% in Q3 of 2013 10.6% in Q2 of 2013 10.2% in Q1 of 2013.
We also delivered strong year-over-year growth this quarter in our wellness and pain management businesses which fall within our occupational testing services operation.
We believe wellness and pain management testing will provide a great growth opportunity for LabCorp over the next several years.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Steve.
And thank you very much for listening.
We are now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Bob Willoughby with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Dave has anything changed since you gave your preliminary guidance of 6 54 back in December? What -- and into the positive or negative on that front? Bob nothing has changed to the positive or negative in terms of how we think about the guidance.
Obviously we provide a range because there's a range of outcomes within the guidance.
I guess the one factor I would point to that we know is different is as Brad mentioned we have had a pretty significant amount of weather in the first quarter which is going to have an impact.
But maybe if I just can expand a little bit on the thrust to your question there are some things that are not included in the guidance and that would be as we've mentioned share repurchase.
The second thing would be improvement in test mix so specifically there's nothing material in the guidance for growth in bracket testing allergy or some of our other new tests.
The guidance assumes that the MoPath situation remains the same going forward.
So if we start getting paid for MoPath by some of the payors which we're optimistic that we will and obviously if we were to receive retro payments for what we did not get paid for in 2013 none of that is included in the guidance.
The guidance also does not include any future acquisitions and the guidance does not include any significant expense reduction activity.
On the other side the guidance also does not include whatever may occur as a result of congress' decision to round the SGR fix.
I mentioned weather and the guidance doesn't include any potential disruption if in fact ICD-10 is implemented in October.
So hopefully that gives you a good sense of how we're thinking about the guidance today and how it looks versus December.
Research Division</strong> But I guess Dave you have stated goals of half the cash flow going into share repurchases why wouldn't it assume $400 million in buybacks at a bare minimum? And we know you've done some deals in the first quarter.
Covance kind of spoke to one of them.
Does the guidance contemplate activity in the first quarter as yet? The Covance deal is not going to be material from a revenue or an earnings perspective.
It's a strategic deal it's not a -- but it's not a large deal.
And the reason that we don't incorporate share repurchases in the guidance is that we have never incorporated share repurchase in the guidance.
And so it just -- that's been our long-standing way of approaching guidance and we felt that the change at this year would number one assume that you're going to do that amount of share repurchase which could inflate the number that we put out; and two just be a major change in the way we think about how we guide.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it just seems Dave you've got a stated rule but then did not put it in.
There's a bit of disconnect there.
But okay that's the policy I guess going forward or what it's been.
Any update on the CFO search? We continue to speak to candidates.
I feel confident that we will -- and we have terrific candidates by the way.
And I feel confident that within this upcoming quarter we will have a candidate identified and in place and start the transition.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Bill Bonello with Craig-Hallum.
Research Division</strong> As we look at sort of longer term here and think about how you might position for the future Dave just 2 questions on that.
First of all on the cost side.
Can you give us a sense I mean is there on opportunity here in this environment to maybe streamline the infrastructure and substantially reduce the number of labs that you have maybe even the number of Patient Service Centers phlebotomists and couriers? I don't mean just head -- little headcount reductions but is there something on a more significant scale that you might be able to do here? And then I'll have a follow-up.
Bill obviously given the environment and as I think you know we always had been attentive to how we can reduce cost by incremental amounts $20 million $30 million a year and I think we've done that very consistently.
I think given the environment we're going to look at whether there are bigger cost opportunities.
And that would include lab infrastructure that would include patient service centers that would include G&amp;A and the corporate infrastructure.
So I don't think we're ready to talk about scale or numbers at this point but we are looking at that.
And if there are significant opportunities we will tell you what they are and we'll do the very best we can to quantify them as soon as they become more certain.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then the second piece is just sort of on the price/business mix side of the equation.
It seems like for the last 5 years or so this industry the large players had pretty much been price-takers.
And I know you have no choice with the government.
But is there on opportunity here to sort of look at your customer base and maybe walk away from some less profitable payors some less profitable physician practices some less profitable regions? Is that a process you're going to go through to try and really determine where you're getting marginal profitability and where the return isn't so great? Yes it's a great question.
And I think I'd highlight a couple of things.
I mean first of all as we mentioned year-over-year managed care pricing was up and quarter-over-quarter sequentially it was flat.
So I think we've done an excellent job in balancing the managed-care plans desire for price relief against the fundamental economics of our business.
And also I think of demonstrating to them that in a high-fixed cost business continually looking for price decreases is going to have an impact on the service that their patients are going to receive.
And by that I don't mean the quality of the testing but I mean the number of Patient Service Centers the wait times all of those things that they focus on.
So I think we've done a good job in terms of our nongovernment pricing.
At the same time we have to look at every relationship and particularly some of our smaller relationships and determine whether there's enough value in continuing to provide those services to justify the cost that we're putting into.
And we do that regularly and we will continue to do it.
And if we find business that isn't profitable or that is absorbing more costs than we're gaining value from it we have in the past and won't hesitate in the future to move away from that business.
And your next question come from the line of Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> It seems like when you were first talking about the pressure from government reimbursement at least to me it seemed like you were more optimistic about receiving the revenue and maybe receiving it in more a timely fashion.
Is that accurate or can you maybe characterize kind of what you're thinking is now in terms of eventually getting that? Well there's 2 aspects of it.
As you know Gary the sequestration and the SGR reduction and the various technical extenders that accounted for the $55 million last year are not coming back and we're not going to get those so those are just -- they're in the run rate now but it is important to note that that -- when you look at the year-over-year comparison and you say why is the price down 2.6% well one of the reasons is last year we were being paid at a 1% higher rate by the government so that is not insignificant.
As to the MoPath yes I think we were more optimistic originally that the payors TRICARE and some of these Medicaid plans would be more reasonable in the way that they approached reimbursement.
Quite frankly it's still a mystery to me why tests that are medical standard of care that have been paid for for years are suddenly on lists of tests that are not going to be paid for.
And it's harmful to patients.
It ultimately would be harmful to physicians who are going to be ordering standard-of-care testing that's not going to be delivered and exposing them to potential malpractice liability.
So I was fairly optimistic all throughout last year that we would get paid fairly promptly.
I still think we will get paid in time.
And if we don't then we'll take steps to make sure that we're not doing $40-plus million of free testing in the future.
But this has been a long and frustrating and my view unreasonable process on the payor side.
And we either got to get paid or we got to stop doing the testing.
LLC Research Division</strong> And so I take that to mean so you haven't reached the point yet where you stop doing some of the testing that you've pointed out in the past that you might? I'm not going to talk specifically about that.
I'm just going to repeat that we're either going to get paid or we're going to stop doing the testing or the patients are going to start getting billed for it.
And you may have seen the article that came out yesterday in Stars and Stripes the military publication about a colonel in the military who has cancer who a test result from a nonmilitary facility and he got a bill for $1 100 from the laboratory because TRICARE said they didn't cover that because it was ordered at a nonmilitary facility.
However if it had been ordered at a military treatment facility TRICARE would covered the test.
Now somebody needs to explain to me how that makes any kind a sense in terms of logic or patient care or fairness to the laboratory industry.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just finally in terms of accruing the revenue for those tests.
Can you talk about sort of what the methodology is in terms of deciding not to accrue it versus if you were what's the threshold for accruing it in terms of believing you're going to get paid for it? Gary this is Brad.
We have actually -- I mean there are many payors who are paying us.
So this does not apply to every payor.
So those payors are in the normal revenue recognition process.
We have a list of payors that we have issues with and for each one of those payors we do a probability assessment of how those discussions and where we think that's going to end up and that dictates the reserve we place on the revenue for that group of payors.
But Gary it's Dave just one further comment.
Most of that you're not seeing in the revenue line and you're not seeing it in price.
So again the value -- this is high-value testing and it's not hitting the revenue line or the revenue per requisition line and that's another 1% of the year-over-year price compares.
And your next question comes from the line of Amanda Murphy with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> So I had a question on the volume side.
It seems like utilization underlying utilization seems to hold up pretty decently at 2%.
I'm just curious how to think about that.
Is that driven by -- and obviously there's tuck-in acquisitions in there.
But how should we look at underlying utilization on a per-patient basis is that going up? And then also how to think about seasonality just given some of the higher deductible plans that are going into effect at the beginning of the year.
How to think about utilization through the year going forward.
Amanda it's Dave.
So I think the seasonality based on what we saw in 2013 is less pronounced than it has been historically in terms of there used to be -- as we move toward these high deductible plans there used to be higher utilization probably in the third and fourth quarters as people got through their deductibles.
And I would not say that we saw that in 2013.
I mean I think the demand was relatively steady throughout the year.
From an organic volume perspective I think organic volume was in the 2% range this quarter it was in the 2% range last quarter.
I feel pretty good about the fact that organic volume seems to be quite stable and volume generally has been strong in the last 2 quarters and strong for the year.
So it's very hard to say what -- it's very hard to say how volume and demand are going to play out going forward but we're pleased with both the reported volume growth and the organic volume growth over the last couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And just a follow-up on some of the reimbursement questions.
I'm curious since you just launched IntelliGEN and I know it's a bit early but how are payors looking at some of these newer higher value-add tests at this point? And then also just thinking about some of the issues on the single-gene testing that you've had from a reimbursement perspective how you're thinking about reimbursement in context of some of your R&amp;D-type decisions for next-gen sequencing for example.
Yes.
So obviously with tests like BRCA and the Prosigna assay you're entering a market where there's a well-established market and where payor reimbursement is well-established.
So we talk to the payors but we feel good that we're not going to have major hurdles in getting paid.
With things like the next-gen sequencing the IntelliGEN panel those are ongoing conversations with payors about the value that you're delivering the price relative to the price of other tests in the marketplace.
The thing I like about the IntelliGEN panel is it's very targeted with 50 markers.
Those markers are highly-correlated to development progression treatment and relapse of cancer and toward targeted therapies that will help to address the patient's cancer.
So I think payors will be pleased at the idea that we are introducing a targeted and therapeutically well-correlated test into the market.
And those will be the continuing discussions that we'll have to make sure that we're well-positioned for getting those tests reimbursed.
And your next question comes from the line of Kevin Ellich with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Dave I was just wondering if you could give us a little color as to what's behind the strong drugs abuse growth.
And then how should we think about the wellness and pain management business? What's the market opportunity? What type of growth are we looking at and I guess what should we expect for contribution? Well I think the drivers behind the drugs of abuse and toxicology testing Kevin obviously employment growth is helping and pre-employment screening is helping.
I think there's just a broader -- there certainly has been a broader use of pain management and therapeutic drug monitoring given the intense focus from the DEA and from the state governments on over-utilization and diversion of pain drugs.
So those have been I would say the primary drivers of growth.
In terms of what the total market is it's hard to size that market.
As you know there are several laboratories that really specialize in pain management testing in particular and we do quite a bit of therapeutic drug monitoring.
So I think it's a nice opportunity for growth over time.
You'll certainly see continued demand because of I think physician concern over patients being compliant with pain drug regimens and the risk of diversion of pain drugs.
And I think we're very well-positioned to take advantage of that market movement.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then just wondering you called out the $0.03 impact from weather during the quarter just wondering if that had an impact on revenues or volumes.
And if so could you quantify that for us? Kevin it's Brad.
Absolutely they did.
And we take -- we neutralized weather for the 2% organic growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So 2%.
Got it.
That's helpful Brad.
And then since I have you you talked about the managed care rev per req increasing year-over-year.
Can we say -- could you quantify that? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly since your organic volume of 2% seems to be stable Dave what do you think the overall market's growing at this point? Is it flattish? And if so do you -- are you taking share? And if so which -- I guess which categories would it be? Kevin I think the market is relatively flat.
I think there is share moving around.
We've talked about health systems acquiring physician practices and in-sourcing some share.
On the other hand there are some health systems that are getting out of the outreach lab business and so they're -- so share is definitely moving around.
I think it's always -- given the general uncertainty around market size and numbers I think it's always risky to say that you're taking share that you're losing share.
What I would say is again we're pleased with the volume.
We're certainly growing the drugs of abuse toxicology and pain management testing business very very well and our operators are doing a terrific job capitalizing on the opportunity there.
And organic volume is stable and it's pretty decent so we're happy about that.
And your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just first want to clarify in that 2% organic number you mentioned toxicology and drug testing being very strong what is that area contributing to that 2% if you could identify it? We don't specifically break down all the bits and pieces Tom.
It is a significant contributor to the 2%.
That's an accurate statement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess I was just wondering about reform.
You listed it as sort of one of the uncertainties for this year.
I'm curious is that stemming more from the pace of the roll out or are there other things as we're sort of seeing reform evolve here that make you a little bit more uncertain about even the longer-term potential of the Affordable Care Act? Well there's 2 things in terms of this year impact of reform which we basically see little to no impact on our -- the guidance assumes little to no impact positive or negative from reform.
So we all know about the rollout and I don't need to tell you that it has been bumpy.
The latest numbers that I have been seeing whether from McKinsey or Kaiser Family Foundation are that somewhere between 10% and 20% of the enrollees in the exchanges are actually new patients and that about 80% of the enrollees to the exchanges are people who previously had other types of coverage.
So we just focus on that for a second.
It's a relatively small increase in the number of covered patients.
And many of those exchange products even though the patients qualify for premium subsidies have significant deductibles and the patients may or may not qualify for deductible subsidies.
So you may actually have people coming from their prior insurance and having a less attractive product through the exchange.
The premium may be lower but the deductibles may be higher.
I'm sure you saw it in the paper yesterday the concern expressed about the narrowing of networks through the exchanges and the number of physicians who are not going to be participating.
And so I think the impact of the exchange is very much a question mark.
And then the third area where I think indisputably there's been growth is Medicaid and Medicaid expansion.
Obviously as you know both from a price perspective and getting back in to these molecular pathology issues those are somewhat positive somewhat negative and very hard to quantify in the near term.
So for 2014 not assuming anything material positive or negative from reform.
In the long run Tom I still think reform is a positive because of all the things that we've talked about it's going to favor the most efficient provider it's going to favor the scale of provider it's going to favor the provider who's able to deliver the highest quality in the most cost-effective manner.
And think if you add onto that all of the other strategic initiatives that we've been pursuing the knowledge services the LBS we're going to be very very well-positioned to capitalize on the opportunities that reform brings us.
So I view it long term as definitely a positive for LabCorp.
And your next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
Dave you had mentioned I think 2 or 3 times that the managed care revenue per requisition was up year-over-year.
I thought maybe the second time you actually quantified that but you said it quickly so I wasn't sure if I missed that.
No I did not quantify it quickly or slowly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Would you be willing to or you're not going to disclose that? No we're not going to -- for practical and competitive reasons there's really no reason to disclose it but it was up year-over-year and flat quarter-over-quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the acquisition opportunities you were talking about you had mentioned you thought health care reform continue to drive acquisition opportunities.
Just more specifically is there any type of your historic business that you think it becomes more active? Is there any type of your historic business that you wouldn't be interested in? For example would you still be willing to buy an AP business? And then also what are your latest thoughts on international? There's nothing in our historic business that has become less attractive or less interesting.
I actually think the right anatomic pathology assets might be more attractive now that they've been for the last couple of years just because the payment reduction to the 88305 code has reversed a lot of physician in-sourcing.
Some of the business practices that we were not comfortable with had been weeded out of the marketplace by competitive pressures and others.
And again the anatomic pathology is an area in which I think scale is starting to become a greater advantage than it has been in the past.
The key question there Gary is just valuation.
We're not going to overpay for these assets and so we got to make sure that if we're looking at anatomic pathology assets that we're looking at the right assets and that the price range is right.
In terms of international as I've said a number of times in the last couple of months I think the international market is probably more attractive to us than it has been historically simply because there are growth opportunities there and it helps us to diversify our revenue base away from kind of our traditional revenue base and specifically helps us to reduce the percentage of revenue that comes from the government.
I will be clear that we are not contemplating some big international transaction.
I think when we talk about being interested in international opportunity there's a -- the question is can we do it in a "capital light" way.
So can we do it with partners? Can we do it without big investments? Can we focus on markets where there's high population density good transportation good understanding of the value of diagnostics the environment is not a politically or economically-corrupt environment? So there are some specific things we're looking for around the potential for international expansion but it's very much something that we're thinking through.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
If I could just do one more.
I thought the quarter looked really unique actually from an expense-control perspective.
If we look at COGS per requisition flat year-over-year.
I think that's the first time in 5 years that we've seen that in the model.
So I know you've touched on potential new cost initiatives for 2014.
But could you just talk about just kind of what your base assumptions are right now for cost of good inflation in '14 and G&amp;A inflation in '14? Well the biggest driver of all of our cost inflation is people.
And so we just assume -- and I'm not going to give you a specific number but we assume kind of low single-digit wage inflation as part of our -- as part of the model.
We also assumed that if we get improved test mix that we will see an increase in supply cost trend; that's not because unit price is going up it's because utilization and mix if they move positively for us obviously there's a supply cost associated with every incremental specimen that we process.
The other kind of pressure point from an expense perspective is bad debt which we've mentioned as we're likely to see a slight increase in 2014.
And you can see even in 4Q of 2013 that SG&amp;A was flat but that was because of the increase to bad debt if you actually -- or the increase to the reserve.
If you actually took that $5 million out of SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue would have been down year-over-year.
And then we have the whole uncertainty around the implementation of ICD-10 as a potential for us to drive some cost but it also drives some uncertainty in the model.
So we are very much focused on improvement of gross margin.
We are very much focused on improvement of SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue.
And I would say if you think about where we look at the cost opportunities being those are the highest priorities.
And your next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask sort of a big-picture question.
The pharmacies are clearly placing a greater focus on their role as wellness centers here in the U.S.
and not just retail outlets and supply chain partners.
So I'm wondering if you look at that trend and see that as an opportunity for you to expand your footprint do partnerships or perhaps as a competitive threat just wondering if you have a thought on the pharmacies.
Isaac it's Dave.
I think the pharmacies and generally the in-store clinic models are very interesting in kind of a sense of a petri dish on how we can look at the health care evolving.
So you probably remember when the in-store clinic started managed care discouraged their use did not pay for them.
And there was an evolution of -- and they were -- as a result they had a very tough time getting off the ground.
And you can probably remember multiple grocery store and pharmacy chains that started these clinics and then closed them because they weren't generating any profits from them.
As managed care's view evolved to this is a way to keep people out of the emergency room it's a way to keep people from additional doctor visits for things like earaches and infections and even things as like flu shots kind of simple levels of care you saw that clinics start to gain some traction in the marketplace.
I guess I think it remains to be seen whether they're going to be able to and beyond sort of routine services like sore throats ear infections flu shots other types of vaccinations.
I will say historically the amount of laboratory work done on these clinics has been very small.
And I think it'll be interesting to watch the trend and see whether it is an opportunity whether it is a threat or whether it is -- whether it continues to be very -- have very little impact on the clinical laboratory business in general.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's helpful.
And just follow-up more specifically on the BRCA opportunity.
Can you maybe give us a qualitative sense of payor willingness to adopt some of the new offerings either from yourselves or others? I'm just trying to get a sense of whether you think the market will expand as a result of some of these new entrants and better awareness of BRCA testing in general or if it's really more of a dynamic where you think there'll be chipping away of share from the incumbents.
I think the payors are absolutely willing to pay.
I will say many of them have moved to a pre-authorization model.
Again I think that's -- with the test of that high value in that specific application I can understand that.
I do think our genetic counseling capability puts us in a unique position to be able to help payors with that pre-authorization model.
So I do not see resistance to paying for BRCA assuming that the test ordering guidelines are met.
In terms of the market and the potential market expansion I mean clearly pricing is being adjusted even as we speak because of the lack of patent protection.
But if you look at just the reported quarter that Myriad just had I mean they had very sizable growth in tests and revenue.
And so that suggests to me that as price comes down awareness broadens other competitors enter the marketplace that there is an expanding market and there is great opportunity.
And nobody's really even considered the international market opportunity as we think about the BRCA market broadly.
So I think there's good opportunity for us there as there are for others and that we'll see good reimbursement as well.
And your next question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back to the comprehensive enterprise-wide review that you referenced Dave a couple of times.
Maybe can you just help us understand when you began that review when you expect to be complete in terms of having a plan or not to share with us.
And specifically if you can just talk about the kind of folks you've engaged to help with that review.
Sure.
We began the review basically back in October internally.
We've since evaluated some external support as well.
And that I really don't have much more to say at this point other than once we have better definition around our plan we will tell you and that will include timing and what we see as the cost opportunities and the time frame for implementation.
So we have -- this is a -- I don't want people to think that we haven't been looking at cost historically because we have.
But again given the environment and given the guidance we felt that it was very important to really take an in-depth detailed look at all of our expenses and where there might be opportunity for us to resize them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so just to be clear is this something you'd expect in the first half to have some better definition around? Is that the right time frame to be thinking about? Yes.
I think that's the right time frame.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could just ask you Dave just about the fee schedule and the 2015 and beyond re-basing process I guess I'd be curious just to get from your perspective what are the key priorities here? I think the original proposal was that this would be a 5-year process but it's not clear that that's the case in the final rule.
Is there any sort of indication that they may tackle a certain number of tests per year? Can you just give us a sense for what may be your priorities ACLA's priorities are and how you think this might be framed by CMS? Sure.
So at the outset Darren we all recognized that the entire health care system including CMS are focused on reducing the cost of care.
And we've been focused on that for a long time so it's no surprise that in thinking about potential ways to reduce the cost of care everybody is thinking about what providers are paid.
I will say that -- and we can spend a lot of time on this which we're not going to but I will say that if you look at what the lab industry is getting paid in real dollars versus what they have historically gotten paid in real dollars we've -- I think a test that we are getting paid $10 in the 1990s for we're now getting paid about $6 for and we took a huge reimbursement cut this year $55 million which represented almost 1% of our company revenue.
And others took the same cut.
So I put that in the -- to give some context to these discussions about the clinical lab fee schedules.
What we are looking for at ACLA -- what we are looking for as an industry and what I am looking for is a fair process.
And I'll say it again a fair process.
The process of reimbursement adjustment that has occurred over the past several years has not been a fair process.
It has not been a transparent process it's been an arbitrary process.
We are perfectly willing to engage in a fair process with CMS.
And in fact we as an industry have been suggesting for years a negotiated rule making around the fee schedule with transparency and fairness because one could argue that there are some tests on the fee schedule that the technology has improved dramatically and the ability to run those tests has improved dramatically for some labs not all labs and that there would be a reason to adjust the price.
On the other hand there are many tests on the fee schedule that didn't exist at the time that the fee schedule was initially created and those tests that are being grossly underpaid by comparison with what we receive from other payors.
So we would like to have a fair process in which there is transparency and engagement by the government in reviewing this fee schedule.
Now -- and I just go back to this TRICARE example again and I don't mean to dwell on it but I go back to this TRICARE example of a test that's been paid for for years is suddenly not paid for and there's a scramble on the part of the government agency to explain and come up with a rationalization for why they've decided to stop paying for standard-of-care of testing that they've been paying for for years on end.
There's no transparency.
It's a completely opaque decision-making process.
There's no rationality to it and that's not good for everybody.
It's not good for the government it's not good for the industry it's not good for the patients which at the end of the day that's who we're here for the patients.
So we've been working with Congress on a proposal to make this a fair process to limit the number of codes that could be reduced in a given year to make sure that there are transparent inputs and outputs from the process to limit the percentage reductions to a particular CPT code that could be done on a given year.
And this is very much a work-in-process.
And I think ACLA has done a terrific job and the industry has done a terrific job coming together.
The proposal is supported by AdvaMedDx and by the 21st Century Coalition and by the Clinical Lab Coalition.
So the industry has done a terrific job of coming together to put a constructive and responsible proposal in front of Congress and I hope it will be met with a constructive and responsible response.
And your next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a few follow-up questions here.
So first of all on the top line growth in the quarter I think that you said that 2% was organic and 5% was reported.
I think that implies that you've had some pretty significant tuck-in acquisitions.
So can you give us some more -- some color on how many tuck-in acquisitions did you do throughout the year because we might have missed something.
And again to confirm that the guidance really does not include any in the future.
Ricky it's Brad.
I'll start.
One thing that -- one of things to get from 5% to 2% is year-over-year from a volume-growth perspective weather was a tailwind.
We had Sandy last year.
We did have weather this year which we called out as part of our EPS because we did not expect that in our guidance.
But year-over-year that is an easier comp.
The drugs-of-abuse testing business we had an acquisition in that we are excluding there from our reported to get to our organic.
And then as Dave mentioned earlier the drugs-of-abuse testing business is a strong contributor to that 2% organic.
Research Division</strong> So when you think about what's kind of like true from acquisitions in the quarter can you quantify that for us? Because you had easy comps right you have organic growth and then you have the acquisitions.
Ricky it's Dave.
Again I just think going into every bit and piece of every number isn't particularly constructive.
As Brad said the acquisitions particularly in the toxicology area helped us the weather helped us.
I go back to the numbers; we had 5% reported volume growth and 2% of it was organic and we're quite pleased with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my next question would be around managed care.
And we're hearing so much about the talk about move from fee-for-service to risk-sharing and outcome-based reimbursement.
How does lab reimbursement fit into that? Well I think we need to create a distinction between what we're hearing about and what's happening in the marketplace.
So everybody is talking about bundled payments and value-based reimbursement and all of these things.
However in the real world our capitated revenue is I believe about 4% of total revenue 3% of total revenue.
And it is not increased; it's actually been decreasing.
So as I talked to my colleagues who run health systems they're talking about 5% or less in the largest case maybe 10% of their business are on some kind of a bundled payment demonstration plan.
That does not include obviously the DRG and the outpatient prospective payment and the daily rates that they're paid.
So it's a very small component of the business today.
And while there is great discussion about it growing over time I think there are a lot of obstacles to this whole -- to the whole bundled payment methodology growing over time including how do you deal with catastrophic events how do physicians get fairly reimbursed or health systems get fairly reimbursed in a risk-sharing model where an unexpected risk occurs.
So there's a lot to be worked out.
And I think the notion that there's going to be this very rapid migration to some sort of bundled payment or capitated system is really misplaced.
Having said that in any kind of a fee-per-value payment system the payments are going to be based on the value that you bring and the value that the lab brings is 3% of health care spend driving 70% to 80% of decisions.
The value that the laboratory brings is a highly cost-effective way to diagnose and treat disease.
The value that LabCorp brings is high-quality efficiency low-cost and all of the other innovations that we have built around laboratory services like the CKD program like decision-support like the LBS.
So I think fee-for-value is a great for LabCorp because we bring an enormous amount of value particularly by comparison with other providers of lab services including much higher-priced providers.
So we're excited about that opportunity.
And as I said earlier in the long term health care reform has to be a positive for us if it works at all.
And your next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Dave just to follow-up on one of your earlier comments around LBS and the new relationship with United in Florida.
Can you maybe just talk in terms of growth drivers around BeaconLBS and what are the opportunities number one; and number two just remind us how you -- what the revenue model is and the profit model around that piece of business? So we haven't talked about the revenue or the profit model and we won't in detail except to say that the revenue model is based on -- the revenue model for BeaconLBS is based on a fee for the service provided and then a shared savings opportunity in terms of helping United to improve its laboratory spending trend.
In terms of how it works and what the opportunity is BeaconLBS provides front-end decision-support tools for key tests identified by payors that they are concerned about typically growth in utilization trend or growth in expense trend.
All of the front-end utilization tools are designed by an independent group of physicians and medical personnel.
And they are implemented in accordance with the payor's desires.
And the opportunity is twofold.
One it's to bring into the BeaconLBS network RVUs that are now going outside the network to higher cost providers and often to providers that don't have the quality standards that the payors would like.
And second of all is to help manage the utilization of higher-value tests and make sure that just like with BRCA pre-authorization that the standards for those tests are being met.
Research Division</strong> And so Dave when we think about that and you think about the list of drugs do you -- I'm sorry of lab tests should we be thinking about this as almost like a lab formulary as being part of this outside entity making the decisions around what is the best lab test and where it should be done? And will this only be adopted via BeaconLBS clients or do you think that this is something that's going to be more widespread adopted across the lab industry over time? I don't think you should think of it as a formulary because a formulary is really a structure to say you have to use -- as I understand a formulary it's a structure that sort of says you have to use this drug and you can't use that drug.
You should think of it as a decision-support tool that says if you want to use this test these are the criteria for ordering it.
And these criteria are not set by LabCorp or anybody else they're set by this independent group and they're implemented by BeaconLBS.
So I think of it more that way than a pure formulary.
And the opportunity over time depends first of all on us getting BeaconLBS to be successful in the test market.
And second of all I'm showing that it can do the things that we're committed to which are making sure that we're getting the highest quality lowest cost and most -- and best practical utilization of lab testing which I feel good that we'll be able to do.
Research Division</strong> So based on those comments so you wouldn't expect a material change in overall utilization of lab test just potentially where they're done and the quality of the test that's done is that the right way to think about it? Yes I don't -- I mean obviously it's too early to tell because this has only been a product that's been beta-tested.
So I think it's hard to say yes we expect a material change in utilization.
I think the idea is to make sure that utilization meets the guidelines for ordering particular tests.
And I think as it become standard in almost every area of health care except laboratory services which is before you can utilize -- before you can do a procedure you got to make sure that it meets the guidelines -- the practice guidelines for performing that procedure.
So we're at 10 past the hour here and we're going to wrap it up in the next 5 minutes.
I'd like to encourage you if your question has already been answered please don't ask it again.
And let's try to limit ourselves to things that will be new.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of A.J.
Rice with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just thought I might ask you about large payor contract renewals.
You haven't talked about that in a while.
How does 2014 shape up relative to the last year or 2? A.J.
it's Dave.
We don't have any significant renewals coming up this year so nothing to report on that front.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just slip in just real quick competition on the independents.
You commented on the competition in the hospital outreach area.
Anything to say about independents and regionals.
I know Solstas just traded hands.
Do you see more acquisition opportunities? Is the competitive environment easing in any way there? Well I think there's going to be acquisition opportunities.
The key questions are going to be does it complement our geographic footprint does it complement our test menu is the valuation reasonable? And we'll continue to look at those and try to select the right -- the ones that fit our model best.
And your next question comes from the line of Bryan Brokmeier with Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Dave you mentioned in your prepared remarks that you introduced 152 new tests in 2013 which is up from 123 in 2012.
And consistent with the longer-term trend of adding increasing number of the tests each year do you expect that the number of new tests introduced in 2014 to again increase? And what impact does the current molecular pathology payment issues have on types of tests you introduce? I would expect the number of test introductions to be about the same.
I mean it typically is in that 125 to 150 new tests.
And look as I think you can tell I am extremely frustrated about the molecular pathology payment issues but I will go back to the thing that I said before which is we're here for the patients we're here for the physicians our job is to get clinically-relevant valuable tests into the market and we're not going to stop doing it because we get resistance from payors.
We're going to have to figure out how to make sure that we get paid for the innovation that we're doing but we're not going to stop innovating because we're getting resistance to reimbursement.
Research Division</strong> And to follow-up I think it was on Gary's question on international.
Canada I believe is about 6% of your total revenues.
If you also include your U.K.
forensics business and clinical trials and any other international revenues you have what percent of revenues is international today and where would you like to see those go in 3 years? If I had to give you an off the -- so first of all we already do business in 40 countries so we are an international company although we don't have sizable international presence anywhere other than in Canada.
If I had to give you a round number for our international business I would say it's probably in the range of 8% to 10% of revenue.
And where would I like to see it be in 5 years? I'd like to see it be 20% of revenue.
But I'm not committing that it's going to be 20% revenue.
I'm saying that is where would like to see it be through taking advantage of the right opportunities and growing where the growing markets are.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Cherny with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Any thoughts on tax rate for the year? No.
And your next question comes from the line of Whit Mayo Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones.
Would you be willing to share the implementation costs of ICD-10? You called that out as not being in your guidance.
But is that really a cost risk that you see or is it more an operational disruption risk? And my second question is just on the investment income the $7.2 million in the quarter looks just a little high.
Anything unusual there? Whit it's Dave.
I'm going to let Brad do the investment income.
On the ICD-10 I think there's a cost of implementation and that's in the $5 million to $10 million range.
But I want you to recognize that that cost has been an ongoing cost.
We have spent an enormous amount of money already on ICD 10 so it's just the incremental cost in 2014 is in the $5 million to $10 million range.
The risk that we've identified with ICD-10 is just that there's disruption; there's payor disruption there's cash flow disruption.
As you probably know there's only 1 week to my knowledge there's only 1 week or 2 weeks of government payor testing for ICD-10 before implementation.
And I think if we look at the health care reform implementation experience that's enough to cause me a lot of concern about whether the government's going to be ready from their side to receive ICD-10.
So that's a high-level sense of the cost and the risk.
And on the investment income line nothing specific jumps out as a driver there.
And your next question comes from the line of Jose Haresco with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just as a follow-up on the BRCA questions.
You said that they -- excuse me payors are requiring pre-authorization.
But how are you thinking or what are you assuming about pricing over the next year or 2 given -- from private payors given that CMS has reduced or at least looks like it's going to permanently reduce pricing for BRCA 1? We don't -- it's too early to tell what pricing is going to be so rather than make assumptions about it we're going to perform some tests get them authorized see what pricing comes in and then we'll be able to give you a better sense.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And sort of as a follow-up as you think about your entering of the market do have a sense or do you have a sense that some early talks with physicians or your customers what type of specialist groups you think you're going to get the biggest traction with? Well I think there's women's health.
I think there's a relatively significant amount of this type of testing that's ordered from primary care.
Those would probably my 2 biggest hypotheses for where the demand's going to come from.
And your final question comes from the line of Bill Bonello with Craig-Hallum.
Research Division</strong> Just -- and maybe this is sort of to sum everything up.
But obviously from everything you've talked today Dave you're going to be facing price pressure from CMS at the least over the next 5 years probably whether it's in a reasonable or unreasonable fashion.
So when you take that in mind or keep that in mind do you think beyond 2014 that you can achieve operating income growth? And if so what's kind of an acceptable level of growth for you even knowing that there's cuts and what's key to get there? Well absolutely I think we can achieve operating income growth.
And I'll give you 4 things that I think are critically important to doing that and then we really are going to finish.
One is share gain.
So whether it's through acquisitions or whether it's through gaining share from hospitals or whether it's through better selling we need to continue to gain share because it takes advantage of the scale on the business.
Two is our test mix.
So the toxicology business drives great volume growth but from a price and revenue per requisition perspective it doesn't give us as many dollars of profit per test.
So we need to continue to work as we've talked about throughout the call on innovation on new tests on things that are going to give us the opportunity to improve mix and that will help us to grow operating income.
Historically we have benefited from the price driven by mix.
And if you look at this year as we said mix was a drag on price by 2% in the fourth quarter and by 1% for the full year.
So normally that goes the other way and we got to change that dynamic.
Three diversification of our revenue base.
We've talked about international on this call.
We think there are many other opportunities around our data around our genetic counseling to monetize things that currently are -- we are not monetizing and to use those to gain greater share and greater attraction to customers.
LBS is another area in which we've talked about on this call as a way to diversify our revenue base.
So that's the third point of how we're going to get back to operating income growth.
And the fourth point is the expense side.
And we absolutely are going to have to take some actions to reduce expenses to rightsize the business given what we're seeing in terms of the demand and the environment.
And so the answer to your question Bill is absolutely we can grow operating income.
We have a clear plan for how we're going to do that and we've got to execute it.
And I look forward to updating you on future calls on how we're doing that.
At this time we have no further questions.
I would now turn the call over to Mr.
David King for closing remarks.
Thank you very much for listening and we appreciate your time this morning and hope you have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2014 Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Glenn and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will facilitate a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
David King.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to LabCorp’s First Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Joining me today from LabCorp are Brad Hayes Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Ed Dodson Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and Steve Anderson Vice President Investor Relations.
This morning we will discuss our first quarter 2014 financial results update 2014 guidance highlight our progress on our five-pillar strategy and provide answers to several frequently asked questions.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Steve Anderson who has a few comments before we begin.
Before we get started I would like to point out that there will be a replay of this conference call available via telephone and internet.
Please refer to today’s press release for replay information.
This morning the company filed a Form 8-K that included additional information on our business and operations.
This information is also available on our website.
Analysts and investors are directed to this 8-K and our website to review this supplemental information.
Additionally we refer you to today’s press release which is available on our website for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today’s call to GAAP.
These non-GAAP measures include adjusted EPS excluding amortization free cash flow and adjusted operating income.
I would also like to point out that we are making forward-looking statements during this conference call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results the implementation of our business strategy and the ongoing benefits from acquisitions.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect the company’s financial results.
Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our 2013 10-K and will be included in subsequent filings with the SEC.
The company has no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now Brad Hayes will review our financial results.
Thank you Steve.
On today’s call I will review 4 key measures of our financial performance: Cash flow revenue growth margin and liquidity.
I’ll also update our 2014 guidance.
First cash flow.
Our cash flow continues to be solid.
Operating cash flow for the quarter ended March 31 2014 was $142.3 million.
We estimate that weather had a negative impact on operating income and a corresponding impact on cash flow of $32 million.
DSO at the end of March was 52 days which was up 3 days sequentially and up 2 days year-over-year.
We continue to experience claims being subject to higher deductibles and co-insurance.
Accordingly we raised bad debt by 25 basis points in the quarter and continued to focus on initiatives to improve patient collections.
Second revenue growth.
Revenue decreased 0.7% year-over-year in the first quarter.
Excluding the impact of weather revenue would have grown approximately 2% compared to last year.
During the quarter total company volume increased 2.6% excluding the impact of weather volume growth would have been approximately 5% and organic volume would have increased approximately 2.5% year-over-year.
Revenue per acquisition decreased 3.3% year-over-year primarily accounted for by Medicare payment reductions text mix and the Canadian business.
It is important to note that managed care revenue per acquisition was flat sequentially.
Third margin.
For the first quarter our adjusted operating income margin was 14.7% compared to 18.7% in the first quarter of 2013.
During the first quarter weather reduced the company’s margins by approximately 180 basis points.
Fourth liquidity.
We remain well-capitalized.
At the end of March we had cash of $338.9 million and no borrowings outstanding under our $1 billion credit facility.
During the first quarter we repurchased $106.2 million of stock representing 1.1 million shares.
At the end of March approximately $946.3 million of repurchased authorization remained under our share repurchase program.
Our share repurchase activity during the first quarter reflects our continued disciplined capital allocation program and commitment to return capital to our shareholders.
Despite losing $42 million of revenue and $0.22 of earnings to weather in the first quarter we raised our 2014 earnings guidance.
Our updated guidance is for revenue growth of approximately 2%.
Adjusted EPS excluding amortization of $6.40 to $6.70.
Operating cash flow of approximately $780 million to $820 million and capital expenditures of approximately $185 million to $205 million.
The guidance excludes the impact of any share repurchase activity after March 31 2014.
I’ll now turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Brad.
We are pleased with our first quarter results.
During the quarter we delivered volume growth of 2.6% excluding the impact of weather volume growth would have been 5% and organic volume would have increased approximately 2.5% year-over-year.
We continue to execute well on our key growth initiatives.
Although our revenue per requisition was down 3.3% year-over-year managed care revenue per requisition was flat sequentially.
During the first quarter inclement weather negatively impacted revenue by an estimated $42 million and EPS by approximately $0.22 yet we raised our full-year 2014 earnings guidance.
In addition to our continued development of Beacon LBS we significantly expanded the fifth pillar of our strategy by introducing Enlightened Health during the first quarter.
I would now like to update our progress on each aspect of our five-pillar strategy.
The first pillar of our strategy is that we deploy capital to investments to enhance our business and return capital to shareholders.
We repurchased $106.2 million of stock during the first quarter representing 1.1 million shares.
Our share repurchase brings us almost to our stated target leverage ratio of 2.5 times debt to EBITDA and demonstrates our continued commitments to return capitals to shareholders.
Our acquisition pipeline remains robust and acquisition should continue to provide an attractive way to expand our test menu and geographic footprint for several years.
We will maintain a disciplined approach to valuation as we seek optimal strategic opportunities.
The second pillar of our strategy is to enhance our IT capabilities to improve the physician and patient experience.
We continue to see strong customer adoption of our Enlightened Healthcare Intelligence platform for managing practice and population health data.
This platform helps clients unify the multiple components of population health management providing primary care physicians with complete access to their patient’s healthcare picture rules for monitoring gaps and care and reporting that addresses more than 600 quality measures.
Enlightened Healthcare Intelligence helps providers reduce expenses improve outcomes and enhance patient satisfaction.
The robust rules engine is highly customizable and provides compliance with meaningful used requirements as well as ACO Jaco and PQRS reporting requirements.
These industry leading data driven services position LabCorp as a trusted partner to healthcare stakeholders providing knowledge to optimize decision making improve health outcomes and reduce treatment costs.
We continue to improve tools that assist physicians and patients in understanding test results and optimizing decision making.
We’re pleased with the recent HHS ruling which provides access to lab results for all patients.
Our patient portal which has over 475 000 patient registrations and is growing daily is well positioned to support this need.
And we can also deliver results directly to physician and health system portals where patients can conveniently review them.
Looking ahead we will focus on providing additional content to our patient portal to further assist patients in understanding their lab testing results and needs.
We will assist our customers in analyzing their population health and clinical practice data with new tools for hospitals physician practices and ACOs supplemented with insights derived from our extensive patient database.
We are working with clients to use our data to benchmark ordering patterns and to determine preclinical markers in specific diseases.
Insight gains from these efforts help payers and physicians better manage healthcare expenses and optimize patient outcomes.
The third pillar of our strategy is to continue to improve efficiency to offer the most compelling value in laboratory services.
We are in the assessment stage of our comprehensive enterprise-wide cost structure review.
It is too early for us to estimate the magnitude of opportunities to further streamline our operations and reduce costs.
We will provide additional color on these initiatives on our second quarter earnings call in July.
The second installation of our propelled robot is live at our major laboratory in Tampa and is now processing approximately one third of the facility’s volume.
We intend to begin the next installation of Propel in our Dublin Ohio facility early next year.
Propel continues to drive expense reduction increase throughput and accuracy and enhance specimen management at our Burlington lab.
We continue to consolidate facilities into our new Phoenix campus and we’re now processing more than 23 000 specimen’s per day at this state of the art facility.
As part of our cost structure assessment we will evaluate our potential to consolidate additional facilities.
The fourth pillar of our strategy is to continue scientific innovation at reasonable and appropriate pricing.
We introduced new tests and collaborate with leading companies and academic institutions to provide our physicians and patients with the most scientifically advanced testing in our industry.
We recently announced the availability of Thermo Scientific ImmunoCAP allergy testing products from Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.
Allergies effect approximately 60 million individuals in the United States annually and this population is growing.
The results of a well documented relationship between allergies and asthma.
LabCorp offers an extensive test menu to assist medical practitioners in determining whether patient’s system support or rule out and allergy diagnosis thereby suggesting other etiologies.
We continue to see strong growth across our suite of BRCA test for the assessment of breast cancer risk.
Our BRCA testing menu includes a comprehensive panel of BRCA one and two complete gene sequence analysis and deletion duplication testing targeted analysis test for other family members once a mutation is identified and a panel for mutations prevalent among the Ashkenazi Jewish decent.
In combination with our care coordination pre-authorization service LabCorp offers an end-to-end program that includes compliance with insurance requirements comprehensive testing and expert interpretation from our license directors from our license directors and a team of 123 Board-certified genetic counselors and 9 medical geneticists.
In addition to our next-generation sequencing offerings for Familial cardiac diseases and the preclinical and clinical development of new HIB and HTB antiviral drugs we recently announced the launching of our first multi-gene oncology panel primarily for solid tumors on the NGS platform.
Over the next several quarters we will continue to expand our NGS offerings.
To support this growth in the next-generation sequencing opportunities we recently acquired the former Provance Genomics lab in Seattle Washington.
The capabilities of this leading next-generation sequencing laboratory include whole genome and whole exome sequencing RNA Seq MIRNA Seq and other specialty NGS sequencing technologies.
The fifth pillar of our strategy is to develop knowledge services.
We are now just a few months from marching Beacon LBS across United Healthcare’s physician and patient base in Florida.
LBS provides decision support tools to help guide lab and test selection access to a lab of choice network and clinical and administrative rules engines for claim adjudication.
Beacon LBS assist physicians in managing lab ordering leading to better management of patient conditions and lower cost.
We are excited about the valuable services that Beacon LBS offers physicians patients and payers and will provide updates on this important initiative later this year.
Last month we marched in Enlightened Health which offers multiple capabilities to patients physicians health systems and pharmaceutical companies.
Enlightened Health will include our patient facing capabilities including ambulatory monitoring and the patient portal.
Physician and health system facing capabilities including clinical decision support care intelligence and advanced analytics.
Pharmaceutical capabilities including our clinical trial central laboratory and data management businesses and several capabilities that touch multiple stakeholders such as our genetic counselors.
Enlightened Health will continue to build capabilities organically and through acquisition to capitalize on our unique assets diversify our revenue base and meaningfully differentiate LabCorp from the competition.
We look forward to providing updates on these initiatives over the next several quarters.
We have positioned LabCorp to grow and excel through healthcare reform an area in which quality efficiency scale and a central role in improving patient outcomes will be the key measures of success.
Now Steve Anderson will review anticipated questions and our specific answers to those questions.
Thank you Dave.
Can you elaborate on LabCorp’s capital allocation policy? As we have stated we are committed to achieving a 2.5 times debt-to-EBITDA ratio.
Based on our capital allocation history we target half of our free cash flow for acquisitions and half for share repurchase.
We have a strong history of returning capital to our shareholders.
Over the last decade we have repurchased $5.6 billion of our stock representing 78.1 million shares at an average price of approximately $71.
Can you provide us with an update on your MoPath payment issues? We are engaged with a number of States and pri-care to receive payments for these tests most of which have long been covered are standard of care and are included in physician practice guidelines.
We are making progress with some States but the process is slow and resolutions are still uncertain.
The MoPath code changes system problems and the complex procedures in some States have led to unconscionable delays in reimbursement.
As ACLA noticed these coverage senile for standard of care test establishes a second class healthcare system for Medicaid and military beneficiaries.
The refusal to pay laboratories for these pivotal tests is not sustainable and patients will ultimately suffer.
In addition we will continue to raise these non-payment issues with members of Congress that have key interests in the healthcare needs for and appropriate treatment of active duty personnel and their families.
We are finally starting to see recognition by some payers that they have to constructibly address this situation.
We will update you on these important initiatives on future earnings calls until they are resolved.
How big of an opportunity is the recently-released Alberta RFP? The size of this opportunity is approximately $200 million annually and the RFP is for a sole-source private provider.
DynaLIFE is currently the sole-source private provider in Alberta and we are a minority partner in this business.
The performance of this joint venture is captured on the equity method income line item on our P&amp;L and is not consolidated in our revenue line.
Can you remind us of how drugs of abuse volume trended over recent quarters? In the first quarter our organic drugs of abuse volume increased approximately 10% year-over-year.
This compares to a year-over-year organic increases of 15% in Q4 of 2013 14% in Q3 of 2013 10.6% in Q2 of 2013 and 10.2% in Q1 of 2013.
We also delivered strong year-over-year growth this quarter in our wellness and pain management businesses which fall within our occupational testing services operations.
We believe wellness and pain management testing will provide a great growth opportunity for LabCorp over the next several years.
Now I’d like to turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Steve.
And thank you very much for listening.
We are now ready to take your questions.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Hi Dave and Brad can you comment on specific M&amp;A in the quarter what you may have acquired and perhaps after the quarter what kinds of activity have you participated in? Hi Bob it’s Brad.
Nothing significant in the quarter to talk about in terms of this contribution specially and we take all of that out when discussing our organic volume growth number.
And then on the future and what’s in the pipeline I’ll defer to Dave.
Yes good morning Bob.
Obviously there have been some transactions we’ve looked at number of things that we – for a variety of reasons including valuations have not been – have not felt good opportunities for us.
But the pipeline is quite robust and we’re looking at a number of opportunities that we think are both exciting for the long-term and have the potential to continue on the global trend that we’ve established here.
Obviously not a surprise Dave this magnitude of share buyback wasn’t bigger given where the stock was in the absence of many deals why wouldn’t that – you’ve taken advantage of the stock price at the lower levels? Our philosophy is we try to be consistent in terms of share repurchase.
And yes the stock was at a lower point throughout much of the quarter.
I will say however that also for much of the quarter there were – there was quite a bit of overhang from the potential for significant government reductions the CMS administrative proposal to be able to cut the fee schedule the looming SGR fix.
So I think there was a lot of concern about what – how the share price is going to perform.
And we don’t try to be market timer we try to take a very consistent approach to – we buy more when the price is down.
And we did buy more this quarter given that the price is down.
And we wouldn’t have bought it if the price was higher.
Okay.
And just a last one Brad can you just remind us what’s in the guidance and what’s excluded from the guidance there is no incremental share repurchase or incremental acquisitions.
But do you have the back analysis in there now in the oncology P&amp;Ls in the guidance? Yes.
And you’re right on share repurchase and it excludes anything after March 31 working.
Okay.
Any other items out there that your store excluding? Well I think some of our stance on some of the items that we said in the past is similar so MoPath for example no assumption of any recovery there.
Steve went through a laundry list of things we went over but I can’t think of a significant change from the last time we updated on any of those items.
Correct.
Okay thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Bill Bonello Craig-Hallum.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Dave I have a question you spent a lot of time talking about Beacon Health and especially and Enlightened Health.
I’m just wondering if you can give us a little bit more color on how those programs actually generate revenue and maybe some sense of the magnitude of the opportunity with those programs to kind of profit margin that they have just anything that lets us get our arms around what business is significant new driver of revenue and profit for you? And then I have a follow-up.
Sure.
So the answer to the question is today they’re not significant drivers of revenue and profit.
Other than the clinical trial central lab business will reside within Enlightened Health.
And as we’ve said I think a number of times that’s approximately $150 million revenue business.
And that business that as evidenced by our acquisition of the genomic slab in Seattle which were very very pleased about that opportunity.
We continue to grow.
The other aspects of Enlightened Health I would describe them as internal startups.
So there are businesses that we are starting to capitalize on for example our genetic counselors.
And the asset we have with genetic counseling in ways in which those genetic counseling capabilities can be independent revenue generators for example with interpretations of genetic testing results with interpretations of sequencing.
So obviously we’ll continue to give you more color around this Bill as these turn into revenue generating businesses.
But I think this is a terrific opportunity for us from a strategy perspective putting all the data analytics capabilities all of the assets that we already have into a business that’s focused on capitalizing them facing the patient facing the physician and health system and facing the pharmaceutical sponsors is a great long-term opportunity for us.
And on the Beacon LBS side? Yes I mean I think Beacon LBS is again in the long-term is a terrific opportunity because as I think is fairly well recognized lab is one of the last aspects of ancillary services in healthcare that basically has very very limited management.
And the management tool over there such as blanket preauthorization policies for all molecular testing that we’re seeing from some players are the proverbial blunt instrument using the sledge hammer to address a much more targeted concern.
So I think Beacon LBS would be a significant tool that will not only help a trend management but will also help with selecting the correct test for the patient at the correct time.
I will say parenthetically with regard to Beacon LBS – there is no question that the margin in that business would be a lot different from the margin in our Corp testing business because it’s not a testing business.
It’s more of an administrative decision support and management business.
So we need to think about that as we roll it out over time.
But I think in terms of generating revenue and enhanced opportunities for the company it’s a terrific long-term opportunity.
And at this point are you prepared to give us anymore specifics about how you actually generate revenue what is the source of that revenue is? Let us get it up and running and then we’ll give you more detail around exactly how the revenue is generated.
But we will be prepared to address that once we get to pile up and running.
Okay.
Thanks thanks a lot.
And your next question comes from the line of David Clair Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed.
Hi I was hoping just to get some additional color on the MoPath reimbursement issues we’ve seen.
So what was the impact in the quarter and when you say you’re making progress are you getting paid on the backlog in some of these States? David its Dave.
The impact on the quarter was not terribly significant it was probably a little bigger than the impact on the quarter last year just because in the first quarter of last year we didn’t see a huge denial rate.
When we say we’re making progress we’re engaged with some of the key States where we have been experiencing difficulties.
And of course we’ve been heavily engaged with Tri-Care which is one of the real pain points for us.
I think there is increased receptiveness from their perspective there have been some commitments made about payments going forward and retrospective payments.
But commitments made and dollars delivered are two different things and we haven’t seen the dollars delivered.
So this is a high priority issue for us.
And again unfortunately this is an issue where at some point I think the industry and ACLA has been very much engaged in this.
At some the industry is going to have to make a decision about providing free services to these beneficiaries given that the payers are simply indicating that they’ve decided not to pay for tested or standard of care that have always been covered.
And that are critical to delivering appropriate and proper healthcare to the patient population.
Okay.
Thank you.
And just a quick question on BRCA and your NIPT business maybe you can give us an update on how these are performing compared to your original expectations? I would say BRCA is performing in terms of buying very well and probably better than our original expectations.
NIPT at this point is – has been in the mix for quite some time.
And we’re continuing to see – we’re continuing to see strong growth there in terms of volumes.
So we’re pleased with both of those businesses.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
So my question really is about the guidance you absorbed a little over $0.20 of weather impact which wasn’t in the original outlook.
And you’re adding a nickel back in.
So Dave if you could just maybe sit back and help us think about what is in the outlook that’s changed versus where we were.
And if there is any things that you feel like need to be called out around what were in your original assumption to be helpful just to kind of square that over $0.25 differential? Darren good morning it’s Dave.
So obviously there were a couple of positives during the quarter.
The SGR fix was resolved in a way that did not have any near term impact.
ICG-10 was postponed for a year so some expenses that we expected that we were going to have to absorb this year we don’t have to absorb.
And then obviously we had a pretty significant weather impact.
The positives we have some expectation that BRCA is going to be positive from a volume enterprise perspective.
We have not changed our assumptions on MoPath that is we assume it will be about the same.
We continue to exclude the impact of any significant M&amp;A transaction that might occur.
We continue to exclude the impact of share repurchase.
And we haven’t factored anything in for the cost reduction program.
There was in the quarter a gain on an investment that we made in a publicly traded company that benefited us.
And so all of those things and we still own some shares in that company.
So there is the potential for us to realize additional gain if we sell those shares during the balance of the year.
And obviously the full year impact of the repurchase that we did in the quarter also is in whatever we’re going to do even if we didn’t do any more share repurchase and I’m not saying we’re not going to do any more share repurchase.
But the full year impact of that share repurchase is something that we take account of.
Although again we don’t assume any further share repurchase in the numbers.
So if you just look at our reported EPS which is $1.51 net of the $0.22 of weather.
And you look at what the expectation was which is $1.60 we’re “$0.09 under”.
What we’re saying is that we feel given the strength of the business in the quarter and given what we see unfolding for the rest of the year that we will be able to make up that $0.09 differential.
And add an additional $0.05 of earnings.
So that’s how we come up with the revised guidance which basically raised the top and bottom end by $0.05 and I hope that’s a sufficiently thorough accounting of kind of how we get there.
Again the guidance is a range it’s not a point.
The guidance is a range.
And we’re looking at the entire range of outcomes that might occur during the year and try and provide you with an accurate expectation of where we think we’re going to come in.
Yes that’s very helpful.
So and just so my math is closed on the gain it looks like it comes out to about $0.05 gain in the period.
Is that about right? That’s right.
Okay.
And then just maybe just to follow-up and I’ll jump off after this.
But just to clarify in your mind the biggest sort of swing factor now in the guidance I mean aside from M&amp;A and buyback which we generally are used to seeing but the biggest swing factor would just be some resolution and it’s more like your pathology issue.
Is that the right way to think about it? Well I don’t really think about it that way.
I think the biggest factor in the – in where we come out in the guidance range is the underlying growth of the business and the price.
So we had a terrific from a volume perspective I think we had a very very strong quarter.
The pricing a combination of – we had the impact of sequestration which we didn’t have in the first quarter of last year we had a little bit of MoPath we have a small where we have a reduction in the physician fee schedule based on some code revaluation and the reduction in the clinical lab fee schedule which is part of the original ACA we still have the 1.75% reduction.
We had some test mix issues with big growth and toxicology which depressed this price.
And we had the impact of the Canadian business which both the government price cut increasing utilization and the exchange rate all dragged on price.
So certainly if we get paid for MoPath that will help us in terms of the guidance.
But what will also help us is continuing to grow the business and seeing some positive movement in the pricing.
Got it okay.
Great.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor Citi.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning guys.
Not to be redundant I just want to go back to the guidance for a second.
I certainly understand all the mechanics and the pluses and minus.
I guess just broadly when you think about you gave guidance.
Weather was certainly much worse than the guidance had anticipated you had a gain and some repurchase of couple of other things.
But still generally the raise of guidance in the phase of that weather headwind you just generally have to feel better about something? And I guess it just sounds like there wasn’t any explicit singular item but just in general when you look at the total range you feel good about where you’re at? Is that fair? I think that’s fair.
I think we’ve answered the question in great detail in terms of what the components are.
And obviously we wouldn’t be raising guidance if we didn’t feel that there was a reason why we would do better than the initial guidance that we put out.
Yes I couldn’t understand in that what isolated got better.
But I know it was a very detailed answer.
On the gain and the public company could you share with us what that was or is that private? Yes its foundation medicine and we were an original investor in the company.
And when it went public our shares obviously became public shares.
And when the lock-up expired we had the ability to sell them.
Okay great.
One more small question.
I just want to make sure on the 2.5% organic growth adjusted for weather and so forth that’s pretty close to our number.
But I think Brad had said that that excludes all tuck-in acquisitions and I apologize I know this has been asked in prior quarters.
But I was under the impression that some of the small tuck-ins were kind of captured in that number so I just want to make clear that 2.5% excludes any of even the small tuck-ins you do? Well Gary its Brad.
And that’s probably back to Bob’s cash flow question.
The small small tuck-ins we don’t go through the exercise of excluding those.
So those what’s excluded from that number are the – are larger type acquisitions where they have an impact on the – especially on the volume.
Great.
And last question for Dave just going back to the new lab pricing methodology that was in the doc fix legislation.
I know the ACLA was in favor of that a couple of the other lab lobbies with some opposition to kind of have a final rule came down.
And it’s very clear that the new price med would be developed would apply to any hospital billings and our clinical lab fee schedule.
But what is a little less clear is if the legislation explicitly mandates the hospital pricing information be captured in that.
I just wondered do you agree that latter part is less clear and kind of what’s your view CMS develops the rights around that? No I don’t agree it is less clear.
I think it was explicitly stated in many discussions that we had with Congress and with congressional staff that market pricing has to include the entire market.
So market – what you want to do is make sure that Medicare laboratory testing is priced at market then you can’t look it through for examples as the flood OIG study did.
And say that that is market market is market.
And that includes large independent labs it includes small independent labs it includes hospital outreach labs.
And so I think the intent of Congress is very clear.
I think obviously the devil would be in the details from the rule is propagated.
But I think the rule should be very clear that the market has to include the determination of market pricing has to include all components of the laboratory services market not selected or cherry picked components.
And that certainly includes hospital outreach pricing.
Okay I appreciate that.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Lieberman Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Good morning this is Ryan Halsted on for Gary.
I guess I appreciate all the detail on the guidance.
But I was hoping you could speak specifically to any change on your views on impact from healthcare reform especially considering the better than expected enrollment? It’s Dave.
I think our view on healthcare reform is that it’s still basically not material to 2014 that is basically a net neutral.
So we’re not counting healthcare reform as a positive as we think about the guidance.
We’ll – obviously if our views change we’ll update that perspective but that’s where we are today.
Okay thanks.
And on your cost structure I realized you’re not prepared to provide any guidance on that.
But just curious if any improved visibility on your reimbursement outlook does that potentially change how you’re thinking about your cost structure and timing on as you’re reevaluating your cost structure? No.
All right.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Amanda Murphy William Blair.
Please proceed.
Hi thanks.
I just had a quick question on M&amp;A.
So I think you guys have been pretty consistent in terms of the types of assets that you pursued over the years.
So I’m just curious going forward should we expect you to pursue a similar strategy? And then also have you seen a change at all in maybe the types of assets that are coming to market just given all the reimbursement pressure over the past few years here? Amanda its Dave.
I don’t think you should expect us – you should expect to see us do anything dramatically different.
Obviously with Enlightened Health there are some aspects of those businesses as we start them up that there may be acquisitions that are – there are a little bit different from kind of core diagnostic testing.
However those would be small exploratory type transactions they’re not going to be anything significant in there.
In terms of assets coming to market I think the mix is pretty much the same as what we’ve historically seen it’s nothing – there is nothing in my mind that looks very different from what we’ve seen over the last several years.
Again I think it’s one of the right assets from a strategic perspective for us and what’s the right valuation.
Got it.
And then a question on Nex-Gen sequencing.
So you’re bringing up the number of test to market now.
Just curious what are your – do you have any insights and how payers may look at paying for those tests.
And it doesn’t seem like there is – well there isn’t really an infrastructure in place for payment around those tests for the most part.
So any insights as to how that might evolve over time? No I think it’s – I think your question has exactly the right premise which there isn’t really an infrastructure for payment that – of the testing using that methodology.
And there isn’t an established payment system you can’t just send somebody a bill and say we perform next generation sequencing.
So currently obviously we’ll continue to build using the procedure codes that apply to the testing that we’re doing.
I think there are very robust discussions going on with some of the payer community right now about how they might think about paying for those tests in the future.
And we’ll continue to keep you updated on the developments there.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
And your next question comes from the line of AJ Rice UBS.
Please proceed.
AJ Rice actually.
But thanks hello everybody.
Two quick questions first of all just kind of on Hep-C testing how big that is for you if you’re seeing any change because of the new drug capabilities here.
And people want to get tested even more now.
So they have an option that could potentially cure them.
Any thoughts on that? Yes AJ it’s Dave.
We’ve highlighted Hep-C for the last – it is really since the CDC put out the screening guidelines as a growth opportunity.
And we have seen nice growth there.
I think the – and that’s been probably for 12 to 18 months.
I think these targeted drugs do give us additional opportunities both in our clinical trials business because of the expertise that we have at monogram which is probably the leader in development of Hepatitis-C testing.
As well as as well as the cost of these drugs means that efficacy really needs to be demonstrated and we think that diagnostic test is an excellent way to show which patients are going to benefit from the drugs and which patients are probably not going to gain as much benefit.
So we like Hepatitis-C is the long-term opportunity and we think we have the right assets in place to build that.
Okay.
And then I was just going to ask a little bigger picture question.
I don’t know if I’ve heard you guys comment in a while about the nature of the competitive landscape and whether you see it having changed much between the competition for hospital outreach labs small labs and then competition among you and your biggest competitor.
I did notice I think I saw pressure forth maybe one of the exclusive contract with independent Blue Cross Blue Shield this quarter.
I wonder wrapping that in to the comments about broader competitive landscape is there any update offer there? Well I think the industry remains extremely competitive.
It remains highly fragmented.
There are still many thousand clinical labs that are – that we compete with on a daily basis.
So I don’t think that there is a lot that has changed.
We have a lot of respect for our competitors large and small.
And we do some things better than some of them and they do some things better than we do.
So we’re always trying to improve our levels of service.
We’re always fanatical about our commitment to quality.
It’s a – but it’s a tough industry.
And obviously there is a lot of competition.
And our job is to go out there and grow the business and excel in what we do.
And I think our front-line people and our operational people have done a terrific job in doing that.
Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hi Dave I noted in your comments that you talked about managed care pricing was flat sequentially.
But can you give us an update of what it looks like year-over-year would be my first question.
And then secondly do you have any major managed care contracts that are up for you now this year? Lisa its Dave.
We don’t have any major contracts that are up for renewal this year.
And year-over-year the managed care pricing was down very slightly not materially at all.
Okay great.
And then I guess my second question would be I know a lot of people were asking about acquisitions and I know in the past you’ve talked about not having as much interest in some of these outsourcing deals with hospitals or outreach programs.
I’m just wondering if that’s changed at all especially if we think forward and think of you as being a lower cost provider than some of these hospitals if you move towards ACA.
Are they looking more enticing? Its Dave again.
So I think that all those things are being equal we would prefer to do a more comprehensive deal with a hospital than with a health system than just buy an outreach program.
I mean we would like to work with them on their internal lab we’d like to work with them on rationalizing where the testing is performed and the utilization.
We’d like to work with them on population health management on delivering the tools that we deliver in terms of analytics and decision support.
So that has been our preference in most of the hospital deals that we have done recently we have focused on more comprehensive a more comprehensive global approach.
Part of the challenge in acquiring a hospital outreach program is because of the pricing that the hospital outreach labs typically command from the managed care payers.
When that pricing moves to RP schedule there is significant revenue compression which also leads to significant profitability compression which makes it hard to pay the multiple but those outreach programs are looking for – because of how those businesses look when they move over to our pricing structure.
So again that’s why our focus Lisa is more on the comprehensive partnership with the health systems than it is on individual hospital outreach lab acquisitions.
All right thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
….and clearly an area of focus for the business at a high level can you just walk us through your marketing and pricing strategy versus competition for these tests? I’m just trying to frame how you’re thinking about pricing scheme either versus trends player in BRCA testing or a new developing market for example like Tumor profiling where formal reimbursement hasn’t been established yet? Isaac I’m sorry but the first probably 15 seconds of your question got cut off so maybe you could just recapitulate.
Yes probably it’s actually Jo in for Isaac this morning.
Just genetic testing just trying to get an idea of your overall pricing and go to market strategy versus the competition.
Just trying to frame how you’re thinking about going in entrenched player for example in BRCA or new developing market like tumor profiling where we just haven’t seen for more reimbursement? Well I think it’s hard to comment in a lot of detail on those areas because obviously they are strategic and we assume there is competitors who listen to our calls.
So I think generally our go-to-market approach is that we try to come to market with a high quality reasonably priced comprehensive test offering with BRCA.
We’re especially proud of the capabilities that we’ve been able to build around the database and around the preauthorization.
So that we can help to make sure that patients are getting the services and that the services are going to be paid for.
I don’t know that there is much more say then that is our consistent philosophy in terms of go-to-market it fits exactly within the fourth pillar of our strategy.
And we’re going to continue to follow that.
Thanks.
And then just a quick one on capital allocation.
Any updates from the board regarding the dividend? Well the decision about our allocated capital is management’s decision.
Obviously we speak to our board about it quite a bit.
And but it’s management’s decision.
And our view continues to be at this point that acquisitions and share repurchase are appropriate deployments of capital and we’re going to continue to deploy them that way.
Great.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
I have two follow-up questions here.
Firstly on the volumes I might have missed it.
But when you talked about same-store volume growth of 2.5%.
Can you just help us understand what was the contribution for that for drug of abuse I know you talked about the year-over-year growth rate.
But off that 2.5% what was drug of abuse testing? Ricky its Brad.
I don’t think we’re going to get into that much detail.
But we did have an acquisition that contributed but that was stripped out of the organic.
And our regular drugs of abuse testing business I think Steve went over earlier was 10% growth in that business.
Right no no I understand that.
But I’m just trying to understand is it half of the 2.5% is that very clear? No no no.
Small contributor but not close to half.
Okay.
And then Dave going back to the healthcare system question.
You talked about more (inaudible) type of relationship with the hospital is kind of like – it’s a preferred partnership.
What do you think is the episode of the healthcare systems given the fact that – over time we are moving or we will be moving toward episode of care type reimbursement and we’re hearing kind of like the non-for-profit hospitals talking about that? So are you being involved in these types of conversations because I think that’s kind of like changes the whole kind of like approach towards reimbursement? Yes Ricky I know it’s been you thesis that we’re rapidly moving into a bundled payment world.
And I would simply say that eve within payment bundles there are clear fee-for-service components.
And the movement towards payment bundles is going to be incremental and evolutionary it’s not – we’re not going to be in two years and 100% bundled payment environment.
It’s just – it is not going to work that way.
So certainly we’re involved in many conversations with health systems with large physician practices about how they think the payment system is going to evolve and how the diagnostic testing is going to play into that.
And we welcome those conversations because again given the – given our cost – our cost position I think we’re in a great position to be a huge contributor of value there and to show integrated delivery networks and large health systems that we can really help them move the needle.
Not only on the cost of their lab services but on the quality of the results they are delivering and on the analytics and the data and all of the things that we can do that will make them winners in the – in whatever the new models are.
So one I think bundled payments will go slowly and incrementally because there are lot of questions about how those payment systems are going to work and whether they are going to work and how providers are going to be rewarded.
And two yes we’re very much engaged in those conversations and look forward to the opportunity to demonstrate our value.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Glen Santangelo with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Yes thanks and good morning.
Hi Dave and Brad I just want to follow-up on the revenue per acquisition.
I mean down another 3.3% this quarter I don’t think that’s really surprising.
But if you look at the different components I think decided Medicare test mix and the Canadian business.
I’m wondering if you could sort of break down those different factors and maybe give us a sense of what’s really driving that revenue per requisition the most? And ultimately I should think about that in a little bit longer term basis I mean obviously we have greater clarity on the Medicare side.
But how do you think about the other factors driving revenue per requisition throughout the balance of the year and into next year? Glen its Brad.
I’ll start with the 3.3% that we reported.
We talked about the impact there as being mix our Canadian business in the government.
We’re not going to break that down any more specifically.
But if you think back to the mix the drugs of abuse testing businesses having an impact there as well as an acquisition in that space.
Then also we have the Canadian business that we speak of where the exchange rate is about 8% lower this Q1 than last Q1 so we’ve had some erosion there.
Plus there is volume growth in that business which is essentially a capitative model so that drives down the price per.
And then the government reductions that we’ve already talked about the physician fee schedule the clinical fee schedule and sequestration are all year-over-year impact to that number that we see.
Our goal is to have that number be more positive than 3.3% negative.
And I think we look at that by focusing on the test mix in our business and trying to grow the higher value test that we’ve spoken about several of those on this call.
We certainly know with a little more clarity what’s ahead in the government reimbursement world.
But we realize that to be successful we need to have solid and growing revenue per requisition as well as a volume of requisitions.
Thanks to that comment.
Maybe if I could just follow-up Brad on the margin side.
I think if I heard you correctly you seem to suggest that margins were impacted by about 180 basis points due to weather which would kind of imply an incremental margin of about 70% on that weather related lost revenues.
I’m kind of curious is that the right number and then as we think about the margins throughout the balance of the year within the context of your full year guidance it kind of sounds like to get to that midpoint of the range based on what you’ve talked about in terms of revenues we’re assuming margins are down about 150 basis points year-over-year.
And how should we think about that ramp throughout the balance of the year? Yes you’re right on the weather.
It’s probably a little higher drop down that you imputed.
We take out the cost of our supplies and our bad debt to get there.
So yes and if you think about our original guidance for the year it would imply some margin compression as well.
So I don’t think of any besides not having a negative weather impact I don’t think of any ramping of the margin performance over the course of the year.
We’ll get better as we lack some things and we have growth continued growth in our business.
And then some of the cost items and opportunities potentially start to contribute that will help as well.
But nothing significant counted on and guidance work for that.
So I think you’ve got it about right generally speaking on the margins.
And again given our guidance for the year that we initially gave we expect those margins to be under pressure.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Cherny ISI Group.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning guys.
So just one last quick question from my end.
When you think about the increase in the market I know you talked about little bit of it over the course of the day.
But seeing a big rise in the plus consumer direct health plans how does that factor into the way you see your business performing and what impact has that had at least both recently as well as in your expectations for next maybe few quarters or couple of years? Michael its Dave.
The plus consumer direct health plans is that with greater consumer responsibility and we’ll create our pricing transparency.
Our price point would be much more attractive.
The minus is it puts pressure on patient collections because we have to collect more and more dollars from the patient.
And that’s the reason that you saw the bad debt increase in the quarter.
Got it thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Brokmeier Maxim Group.
Please proceed.
Hi thanks for taking the questions.
You previously stated that the ICG-10 expenses this year would probably be in the $5 million to $10 million range.
Are those expenses that you’re now pushing off to 2015 or were some of them already spent this year? Bryan its Dave.
Some of them were already committed and some of them were able to defer.
And given the longer timeframe we’d be able to better work that was caused into the regular workflow or should we not expect all of those I guess looks like you spent a couple of million should we not expect all of those $5 million to $10 million to be additive to 2015 expenses? I think it’s too early to tell with certainty.
It gives us more time to work on some of the things that we’d like to do in a more automated and less manual fashion.
So we’ll know about that as we get closer to the compliance.
All right.
And you discussed the possibility previously as some significant expense reductions that you’re currently evaluating which were also excluded or continue to be excluded from guidance.
Has that decision progressed at all? I think we’ve answered the question three times that we’ll value – we’ll update it on the July call.
All right.
And just last quick one you said that volume ex weather would have been 5%.
So weather negatively impacted volume by about 2.4%.
Can you remind us what the weather impact in the fourth quarter was? Fourth quarter weather was actually on a year-over-year basis to the fourth quarter of the previous year a better comp an easier comp.
I don’t remember the specific weather number in Q4.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Whit Mayo Robert Baird.
Please proceed.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
I just wanted to go back for a second to the fee schedule reprising.
Aqua has been very supportive of the doc fix legislation it seems like you guys concur.
And one thing today have highlighted as the study that was performed by Avalere of the year that attempts to illustrate that average Medicare pricing is probably not too just similar from commercial pricing when you actually do include hospitals.
And they also seem to suggest that when CMS establishes these private payer rates in some instances some of the non-hospital lab test rates could actually increase.
And so I just wanted to get your broad perspective on that study and whether or not you agree or disagree with their inclusions? With the Avalere study’s conclusions? Yes.
Yes it’s Dave.
Yes I think the Avalere study was a very comprehensive look at a large number of data points and multiple MSAs as big as New York City as small as I think Boise Idaho.
And what Avalere did was look at paid claims data look at pricing data look at a variety of sites of service independent labs small labs nursing home labs that are – that were paid under the fee schedule and hospital labs commercial pricing Medicare pricing.
And I think what the study demonstrated quite clearly is that Medicare is at or below market for almost all the test that we’ve reviewed whether routine testing or a high complexity or low complexity testing.
So I think the Avalere study was a very detailed and comprehensive approach to determining what is market and I think it – we bought it this notion that’s been going on for a long time.
And somehow Medicare is above market in the way that it pays for lab test.
Obviously how CMS implements this rule is going to be significant and we at LabCorp and I trust ACLA are going to be very significantly engaged in the rule-making process.
But I do think that the way that the – there was a very strong policy view in Congress that they wanted Medicare pricing to be compared to and based off of market pricing.
There was a very strong policy view from the ACLA from the LabCorp and the constituents that the market had to be a true market not a manufactured market to make it look like Medicare was overpaying.
And the Avalere study shows that in the true market Medicare’s pricing is very very competitive.
So I think that in the long-term this was a policy driven decision by Congress.
And they can scrape that we have policy driven decisions as opposed to financially driven decisions.
And we’re going to be very much involved in making sure that policies are implemented in accordance with the way that Congress wanted them to be carried out.
Great very helpful.
We have no further questions.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
David King for closing remarks.
Thank you all very much for listening this morning and good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
And have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2014 Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Glenn and I will be your moderator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
And later we will facilitate a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Steve Anderson Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Mr.
Anderson.
Good morning and welcome to LabCorp's second quarter 2014 conference call.
I am Steve Anderson Vice President of Investor Relations and with me today are Dave King Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Glenn Eisenberg Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Ed Dodson Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
This morning we will discuss our competitive and strategic environment highlight progress on our five pillar strategy discuss our second quarter 2014 financial results and update 2014 guidance.
Before we get started I would like to point out that there will be a replay of this conference call available via telephone and internet.
Please refer to today’s press release for replay information.
This morning the Company filed a Form 8-K that included additional information on our business and operations.
This information is also available on our website.
Analysts and investors are directed to this 8-K and our website to review this supplemental information.
Additionally we refer you to today’s press release which is available on our website for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today’s call to GAAP.
These non-GAAP include Adjusted EPS Free Cash Flow and Adjusted Operating income.
I would also like to point out that we are making forward-looking statements during this conference call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results; the implementation of our business strategy; and the ongoing benefits from acquisitions.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect the Company's financial results.
Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our 2013 10-K and will be included in subsequent filings with the SEC.
The Company has no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Dave King.
Thank you Steve and good morning.
Before Glenn discusses our second quarter results I would like to provide an overview of the competitive and strategic environment and of the steps LabCorp is taking to drive in that environment.
Although the last three years have been difficult the lab industry is in an enviable position to grow in the years ahead due to population demographics both in the U.S.
and abroad test menu innovation and the critical role of laboratory medicine in the healthcare system.
LabCorp is particularly well positioned as our size; scale and platform provide an anchor for our business and give us great penetration into the broader healthcare system.
Our lab and PSC infrastructure logistics network EMR connectivity [interfaces] into physician offices and health systems and reach to consumers through our billing and collection system and our patient portals are unparalled among healthcare services companies.
Now we must build off this platform to address the needs of a changing market.
Given changes in benefit plan and design reimbursement reductions and pricing pressure sustained utilization may remain lower than historical trends and price above -- across all of healthcare services will likely continue to be under pressure particularly driven by mix and payment policies.
This dynamic creates opportunities for LabCorp because we believe the consolidation will accelerate lower cost settings will be incentivzed and scale will be rewarded.
We are seeing this across healthcare services with transactions designed to increase scale create vertical integration expand capabilities and leverage existing assets.
Along with opportunity we can reasonably expect that interlopers will try to disrupt our business model.
To be among the winners we know that LabCorp must excel in five ways; improve the quality and reduce the cost of care help manage the total cost of care serve as a performance management partner to our customers serve a broad range of customers in multiple settings and build scalable platforms with replicable processes that can create value at many points along the continuum of care.
In recent years LabCorp has taken meaningful steps to address these systemic changes through our five pillar strategy.
With respect to our first pillar we have continued to increase our scale and competencies in clinical laboratory medicine through acquisitions ranging from routine capabilities to highly esoteric testing.
We have also focused constant attention on building and growing our managed care base leaving us with a managed care portfolio that is unparalled in the industry.
These initiatives give us greater opportunity to deliver value in a $60 billion market where we have approximately 10% share.
Under our second pillar we have invested significantly in information technology infrastructure and capabilities to improve the customer experience for providers and patients who order and receive testing from us.
Relative to the third pillar we have relentlessly focused on optimizing our operations to maintain our position as the most efficient provider offering the highest quality and greatest value for the healthcare dollar spent.
We have also invested heavily in improving every customers experience with LabCorp.
We take great pride in our significant and continuing progress in this area which is due to the efforts of our more than 30 000 dedicated people.
Under our fourth pillar we have actively pursued opportunities to bring significant new test to market through licensing and internal development.
We are pleased that our partners have repeatedly expressed how impressed they are with LabCorp’s science test development capabilities and innovation.
As an example of our innovation our monogram center of excellence in infectious disease recently two NIH grants to study and develop new approaches for HIV detection.
With respect to our fifth pillar we have undertaken two internal strategic initiatives to support our customers at critical points BeaconLBS and EnlightenHealth.
Each of these initiatives was built on the premise that we can use our existing infrastructure as a channel to provide more value to our customers.
Like other companies that have used their infrastructure to extend their market reach we want to use our market penetration to offer new and value added services.
We undertook BeaconLBS in 2011 because we understood that providers need assistance in selecting the right test for their patients and payers need help in appropriately managing the utilization of expensive diagnostic testing.
After extensive market analysis and the enormous amount of hard work we invented a tool that helps our clients choose the right test at the right time and helps payers thoughtfully address concerns about both unit cost and trend.
In the fall of 2014 this innovative model will be implemented in Florida in partnership with United Healthcare.
We started EnlightenHealth as an outgrowth of four initiatives our Litholink clinical decision support program our care intelligence data analytics program our patient portal and our clinical trials business.
These tools serve different customers from BeaconLBS.
To assist physicians we have developed a data and analytics tools that help them understand their metrics of care delivery and improved compliance with paper performance and population health metrics.
To assist physicians and patients we have developed disease specific expertise in kidney stone chronic kidney disease cardiovascular disease and coagulation adding more programs every year.
We have also developed a web portal to deliver lab results decision support and additional content to patients.
We have greatly expanded the size and capabilities of our clinical trial central lab business to serve physicians and patients by taking advantage of the opportunity created as bio pharmaceutical companies recognize the need to go deep in specific disease dates and create vertical alignment from drug design to identification of unique patient populations that will respond to therapy.
We are focused in EnlightenHealth on four key areas of opportunity personalized genomics informatics new channels to capitalize on our competencies in our clinical trials business.
We will provide more detail on these opportunities in the coming quarters.
This quarter we continued our progress on all of our five pillars let me mention several key initiatives.
Under pillar three the installation of our propelled robot at our major laboratory in Tampa is complete and is now processing all of the facilities volume.
We remain on schedule to install Propel in our Dublin Ohio facility at the end of this year.
Propel continues to drive expense reductions increased throughput and accuracy and enhance specimen management in our Burlington and Tampa labs.
We continue to streamline our operations and reduce expenses through facility rationalization.
In addition to our new Phoenix campus which consolidated four LabCorp facilities we recently announced the consolidation of our facility in Monrovia California into our Santa Fe laboratory and the consolidation of our facility in Mitchell Field New York in to our Connecticut laboratory.
We are reengineering our business to provide a better operating platform sustainable long term savings and a world class customer experience.
To that end we remain focused on our enterprise wide cost structure review and we will discuss this initiative in more detail in the coming quarters.
Under pillar four we launched our BRCA next-generation sequencing assay which provides complete gene sequence analysis of BRCA1 and 2 and better equips us to meet the strong demand for this task.
In combination with our care coordination pre-authorization service LabCorp offers an end-to-end program that includes compliance with insurance requirements comprehensive testing and expert interpretation from our licensed directors and team of 123 board-certified genetic counselors and 9 medical geneticists.
LabCorp continues to see robust growth in companion diagnostic assays that help physicians guide targeted drug therapy.
For example our HCV GenoSure NS3/4A assay is the first commercially available test to provide drug resistance data from new HCV antivirus.
With respect to the drug simeprevir the assay is required prior to its use as the test for the Q80K polymorphism that impacts the efficacy of the drug.
We have positioned LabCorp to grow to the era of healthcare reform.
The time into which quality efficiency scale and a central role in improving care delivery and patient outcomes will be key measures of success.
Our five pillar strategy will enable us to excel in all of these areas generating shareholder value for years to come.
We are very pleased to have Glenn Eisenberg our new Chief Financial Officer in place.
Glenn is going to be a terrific contributor to our executive team and our company and now I will turn the call over to him to review our financial results.
Thank you Dave.
Sales for the quarter were $1.5 billion an increase of 3.3% over last year.
The increase in sales was the result of test volume measured by requisitions and fold-in acquisitions which was partially offset by test and payer mix.
Total test volume increased 5.3% over the last year with approximately 3% coming from organic growth.
Revenue per requisition decreased 2% but was up slightly versus the first quarter of 2014.
Similarly managed care revenue per requisition was also up sequentially.
Gross profit for the quarter was $569 million or 37.5% of sales.
This compares to gross profit of $577 million or 39.3% last year.
The decline in gross profit was due to unfavorable test and payer mix and cost inflation partially offset by higher volume and productivity.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was $298 million or 19.6% of sales compared to $281 million or 19.1% last year.
The increase in SG&amp;A resulted primarily from an increase in the bad debt reserve consulting fees and merit increases.
The increase in bad debt reflects the increased patient responsibilities for the cost of healthcare services due to higher deductibles and co-insurance.
For the remainder of the year we expect the bad debt rate to be back to approximately 4.5%.
Consulting fees were incurred as part of the company’s enterprise wide cost structure review that Dave mentioned earlier.
During the quarter the company had $7 million of restructuring in special items which was comparable to last year.
The break out of this years amount has $2 million in restructuring and other special charges and approximately $5 million in SG&amp;A.
Excluding these items operating income was $253 million or 16.7% of sales compared to $276 or 18.8% last year.
The Company also sold its remaining shares in an investment realizing an approximate $9 million gain in the quarter that was reported in other income.
Interest expense for the quarter was $26 million compared to $23 million last year; the increase was driven by higher debt balances as a result of the company’s debt financings in the fourth quarter of last year partially offset by the benefit of the company utilizing fixed to floating interest rate swaps on a portion of its debt.
The tax rate for the quarter was 39.1% unchanged from last year.
As a result net earnings for the quarter were $141 million or $1.64 per diluted share.
This compares to $152 million or $1.62 per diluted share last year.
The increase in EPS over last year benefited from the $0.06 per share gain on the sale of an investment as well as the company’s share repurchase program.
Adjusted earnings per share which excludes amortization restructuring and special items was $1.84 in the second quarter compared to $1.80 a year ago.
The company continued to generate strong cash flow.
During the quarter operating cash flow was $207 million compared to $138 million last year as the company benefited from improved working capital including a one day improvement in DSO to 49 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $48 million in the quarter which was essentially unchanged from last year.
As a result free cash flow or operating cash flow after capital expenditures was $159 million compared to $89 million last year.
During the second quarter the company repurchased $56 million of its stock bringing its year-to-date share repurchases to $163 million.
The company ended the quarter with approximately $890 million remaining under its board authorized share repurchase program.
Liquidity at the end of the quarter was approximately $1.5 billion comprised of $480 million in cash and $1 billion of availability under our revolving credit facility.
The company’s guidance for 2014 is for sales growth of approximately 2% given our performance in the second quarter and outlook for the year we have increased our 2014 adjusted EPS guidance to $6.50 to $6.75.
Operating cash flow was targeted at $780 million to $820 million while capital expenditures are projected to be $185 million to $205 million.
As a result free cash flow is projected at $575 million to $635 million.
This ends the company’s formal remarks and we’ll be now happy to answer any questions.
Operator? (Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Glenn with the inclusion of the full financial statements of the quarterly results for the first time since we started asking for them in 1996 you are already my favorite LabCorp CFO so congratulations there.
Can you build on that momentum and actually speak – do you know what an organic volume number or growth number was in the quarter or is that we’re still not able to break that out?  Well the good news is that one appreciate your comments.
We did break that out actually in our comments if you will.
As you know the volume for the company year-over-year was up over 5% and we said around 3% of that was organic and the other 2% were from acquisitions that had been done and were timing related.
So the company is continuing to see some very good organic topline growth.
Excellent so I missed that.
And yeah Dave we’ve [asked] some prior calls you know your portfolio of investments there are there any more good guys in there and it didn’t sound like there was a tremendous amount of opportunities left but this was obviously a good one I guess it’s a continuation of a prior investment here divesting the last but are there likely -- are we likely to see more investment gains this year or is it – are we pretty much done for the year there?  Bob we never know the exact timing of our investments.
You are correct that the gain recorded in this quarter was the balance of what you saw in the first quarter the disposition of that asset.
We do have some other good guys in the portfolio they are not at present as big a good guy as this particular investment and again we don’t – we don’t have a good sense of the timing of how these – the investments will liquidate.
Okay.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Bill Bonello Craig-Hallum.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning thanks a lot.
So just a couple of questions I guess the first one is just trying to get a handle on how you guys are thinking about profitability.
I mean you had the $48 million growth in revenue with the $22 million decline in operating income not much color at this point on your re-engineering efforts just what sort of your commitment to returning the operating growth can you not grow operating income with you know 3% plus revenue growth you know are these re-engineering efforts necessary just to pull the line how should we think about this? Let me Bill take the first part of it.
To your point obviously its disappointing to see your topline growing but at the expense of our earnings.
We talked about the pricing pressure if you will that’s essentially the mix between our test and payers that as we now get through call it the first half of this year maybe a little bit into the second half you’ll start to see the year-over-year comps now start to level off so effectively that our operating margins should effectively be leveling off.
Going forward especially we’re taking up some of the unusual items as we continue to see the good topline growth we would expect to leverage our cost structure better so if we can hold call it the price mix relatively flat for comparable periods additional volume we should be able to get the leverage from.
I think the recognition that the company is looking at this overall call it cost structure review really speaks to the fact that we know there are pressures we know there is mix pressures payer pressures that Dave eluded to in his opening remarks and as a result we believe that given this company we should be able to as any company continue to improve our cost structure improve the way we do our business and that should either help mitigate the pressures that we are seeing or hopefully help improve our operating margins going forward.
Yeah Bill it’s Dave.
I would just add that the challenge here is test and payer mix and payer payment policies so we see very strong volume growth at the same time we know with MoPath for example that some of that volume is just not getting paid for.
So that has a negative impact on price negative impact on margin I mean it goes up and down the P&amp;L or infact you could even argue that it has a negative impact on expenses because we are performing molecular testing and not getting paid for so we are -- there’s a double whammy effect.
So I agree with Glenn I think between a combination of continuing to have strong topline growth looking at the expense side of the ledger and also either resolving through getting paid or resolving through testing process you know the process of not doing testing that we are not going to get paid for.
We do have opportunity and we’ve said we are strongly commitment to operating income growth in 2015 and we continue to believe that we can accomplish that.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just a second follow question in your prepared remarks Dave you noted interlopers trying to disrupt the business model and lately there has been a lot of press about [indiscernible] a potentially disruptive force in the lab industry yesterday there was someone even saying you ought to assure the big lab starts because of it.
Can you give us your thoughts on sort of that assessment not the shorting but that – will disruptive to the lab industry and if so how at all you might be responding to that threat? Yeah Bill.
I’m not going to comment on any specific competitors in anyway.
I don’t think that’s an appropriate thing for me to do.
We are always interested in and evaluating potential innovation opportunities for our business.
As everybody knows point of care testing has been extremely challenging over the years from the perspective of the sensitivity and specificity of the testing the reproducibility of the testing how the results are delivered particularly in a more electronic era having a test drifted that prints out of an instrument that is not going to be helpful to physicians.
And so we continue to evaluate every potential opportunity for changing the model that’s what reengineering the business is about.
I would simply say that if there is going to be any kind of a successful point of care testing model with our 1 700 patient service centers with our in office for [botanists] with our electronic interfaces into physician and hospital systems to provide results seamlessly into electronic health records.
We’re going to be extremely well-positioned to capitalize on whatever developments occur in that frame work.
So again I’m not going to talk specifically about any one thing or another.
A lot of people are working on innovation.
It’s great that’s part of what our venture fund is designed to do is to invest in those innovations and see how they play out.
But we welcome innovation and I think it provides LabCorp with great opportunity over time.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Lieberman Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
Maybe if you could just update us on the some of the payment issues that you mentioned on the molecular pathology front and some of the resolution and where you are on the states and then few comments about at some point you’ve made these comments in the past that you reached a decision of maybe not doing the test kind of where are you with all that? Gary it’s Dave.
I think we’re seeing recognition by payers that they need to address this situation and we have recovered some of the outstanding balances of some states particularly some state Medicaid programs and we’ve not made progress with others.
So it continues to be a mixed bag.
Specifically with TRICARE on June 18 DHA indicated that they were initiating a three-year demonstration program to pay for some molecular testing that they had stopped paying for in 2013 including extended coverage for prenatal and preconception cystic fibrosis carrier screening.
The complete list of test has not been published.
And so I can’t give you any further clarity there.
But we are encouraged that TRICARE has recognized that they have a responsibility to their patients and to the physicians who serve those patients to cover that molecular testing.
In terms non-performing the testing obviously that’s a complex decision and what I would point to there is the idea behind BeaconLBS is just to let the physicians know at the point of service the testing is not going to be covered or is not going to be paid for and to let the labs know at the point of service that testing is not going to be covered or paid for.
So we actually have a tool that will allow payers to implement these policies in appropriate way at the front end as opposed to the lab performing the service and then simply getting a denial and not being paid at the backend.
So there are lot of ideas in-flight as to how we can execute on this but we remain very much committed to resolving MoPath either consensually with the payers and if not then by explaining to the physician community that we can’t continue to do significant amounts of high value testing that we’re not going to be paid for.
Any better visibility into the timing of resolving that is it likely this year or we have to wait longer for that? I think it just going to be a long process.
We’ve recovered money against some of what we were not paid last year.
We started getting paid by some payers that were not paying us last year.
But we’ve not seen any material overall improvement in the landscape and so we continue to work hard to try to accomplish that improvement.
Is there any dollar amount that you’ve kept track of what you have not gotten paid for or what you have not accrued that you would have otherwise accrued if there hadn’t been these issues? Yeah the only thing that we’ve said was that the run rate last year was approximately $52 million in uncollected MoPath payments and to repeat what I said previously we haven’t seen any material improvement in that situation.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Welcome Glenn.
I wanted to just follow on actually to the molecular pathology denial question.
So I guess just as it relates to the TRICARE announcement itself is it fair to say that you are waiting for them to publish their list so you have certainty around what you’ll be able to build and collect is that we’re now waiting for.
So it’s the first question on TRICARE? And then the other part of it is when we think about the $52 million Dave was TRICARE a material part of that? Darren with respect to the list yes we do know that they have agreed to cover cystic fibrosis which was probably the single largest test that was not being covered.
And we don’t know what the other tests on that list will be and we are waiting to determine that.
In terms of whether they were a material part of the $52 million? They were a significant part of the $52 million.
And so we’re optimistic that as payment policies are put in place that that will improve on a prospective basis.
I don’t think we’ve resolved the question with them the question of what they’re going to do with respect to the payments that were not made from January of 2013 to April 2014.
Okay.
But I thought there it was reported in the press more than anything but I thought they had made the decision to go back to Jan 1 2013 so is that not your interpretation? I think if they have made that decision we’re still waiting to see the full impact of it.
Got it okay.
So we -- do you think we’ll some resolution to all this related to TRICARE in Q3 is that a reasonable expectation? I would hope so I mean they have encourage -- they have said that they are working on the list and through ACLA and directly obviously we’ve been we have been encouraging them to provide the list as soon as possible so that we and the other laboratories in the industry can take appropriate steps to make sure that we’re going to get paid for the services.
Okay.
Thanks for clarifying that.
I guess the one other question I had for you is with regard to revenue diversification.
And I guess we’ve noted in your proxy that the incentive comp programs are putting higher weight on diversification.
I guess the question here is what qualifies as a diversified revenue source for you guys and can you just talk a little bit about the types of things we should be thinking about in that context? Sure.
There’s a long list of things that could qualify as -- in my view as revenue diversification.
Starting with share gain from hospital laboratories which is an area in which we have a significant amount of revenue but as everybody knows there’s a lot of revenue going through hospital labs that from an economic perspective could be served at lower cost and at very -- in my opinion at higher quality by going through independent laboratory.
So that’s one area.
Our clinical trials central lab business is an important business for us.
It’s a business that’s grown significantly over time.
It doesn’t -- we don’t get paid there by managed care or by the government.
We get paid by different parties and so that certainly is a revenue diversification opportunity.
More direction interaction with consumers is a revenue diversification opportunity.
International is a revenue diversification opportunity.
The BeaconLBS and the EnlightenHealth platforms are revenue diversification opportunities because within each of those there are ways of generating revenue that are not going to be subject to either direct payment from managed care or direct payment from the government.
So as we think about revenue diversification Darren I would not characterize it as and I want to be clear that we don’t characterize it as we’re going to go do something that is vastly outside the scope of our core competencies.
I think if revenue diversification of how can we take those core competencies and how can we generate revenue from different payer sets from the payer sets that are generating the bulk of our revenue today.
And if we can do that we can use our core capabilities but we can generate different streams of revenue that overtime will allow us to offset some of the pressures that you’re seeing in the business today.
Got it that’s helpful.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line Lisa Gill JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Thanks very much and good morning.
Dave I was wondering if you could talk about anything specific to ACA volumes in the quarter and kind of your expectations as we move throughout the year.
Good morning Lisa.
I think we -- I said at the end of last year and in the beginning of this year that we felt that ACA would probably be a net neutral to us.
I think from a volume perspective it’s hard to argue that we’re not getting the benefit.
I think we are getting a volume benefit from ACA just because if you look at the enrollment numbers in Medicaid and managed Medicaid in private exchanges the data clearly suggest that enrollment is up uninsured the number of uninsured patients coming to see us is down.
So I think we are getting a volume benefit obviously from a pricing perspective one of the consequences of the ACA is you are seeing very rapid growth in the Medicaid population you’re seeing very rapid growth in the managed Medicaid population that has an impact on price not so much from a unit price perspective but from a mix perspective and also from a payment policy perspective.
So particularly managed Medicaid payment policies tend to be very restrictive for molecular and high value testing and that’s part of why you’re seeing the pressure on price.
So net-net clearly in my mind ACA is a benefit to our volume growth and it has been somewhat of a weight on price.
And then just going back to your earlier comments talking about disruptors talking about your potential shares in the hospital market can you maybe just give us some indication as to what you think would be the key drivers for example on the hospital market finally getting that business out of the hospital lab.
Is it as hospitals take more risk and a CEO type relationships? Is it managed care driving that? And over what time frame do you think that you can really show meaningful market share movement? Well as you know this has been the biggest opportunity for independent labs pretty much for the history of the industry and I think it remains the biggest opportunity.
It’s certainly going to be -- market share moves slowly.
I do think that hospitals are re-looking at all of their ancillary services and you’re seeing in a number of areas ambulatory surgery wound care you’re seeing hospitals forming partnership with other companies to provide those services in a lower cost and less acute side of care.
And I think we’ll see that over time with the hospital labs but again it takes times these are complex transactions and we just have to be aggressive and patient.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Amanda Murphy William Blair.
Please proceed.
Hey thanks.
I just had a question on the legislation that just came out around future Medicare reimbursement.
You know there was obviously a meeting earlier and there was a lot of different discussion around sort of how CMS should look the last date in terms of collecting data and who should be involved in that.
So I’m curious just how are you guys thinking about the puts and takes there? And then sort of how LabCorp physicians if you think about Medicare reimbursement 2017 and on? Well so the legislation requires CMS to engage in a rule making and my understanding is the first rulemaking is about how they’re going to conduct the market surveys and that rule is due to be published at some point next year.
Then the market surveys will be conducted in 2016 basically and towards the end of 2016 there’ll be a Clinical Lab Fee Schedule rule in which they will propose subject to notice on comment that the changes to the fee schedule.
So from my perspective the rule that determines how they’re going to define market is going to be very important.
And ACLA and LabCorp and all lab constituencies I think its fair to say are very much engaged with CMS and trying to create a survey that would be fair but they will accurately represent the market for laboratory testing.
Then once the surveys are done and completed CMS will have the opportunity not kind of the way that the fee schedule has been addressed before which was with the blood instrument of across the board cuts but CMS will have the opportunity to on a CPT code by CPT code basis address individual testing that they want to adjust valuations.
And I would say that I’m sure CMS’s view is that there are some tests on the Clinical Lab Fee Schedule that are -- that should be reduced in price.
And the industry feels very strongly that there are lot of tests on the Clinical Lab Fee Schedule particularly complex molecular testing lot of CPTs that need to increased in price because they don’t reflect what the commercial market pays.
So its very hard to predict what will happen in 2017 but I think its -- I think again its fundamental to highlight that the agreement between the laboratory industry and Congress was that these surveys were to consider the entire marketplace Senator O.
Hatch specifically stated during passage that the intent of the bill was to ensure that Medicaid rate reflect true market rates and that all commercial payment rates to all sectors of the lab market should be represented including independent laboratories and hospital outreach laboratories.
So we expect that the industry in CMS will work together to faithfully execute the intension to bring laboratory Clinical Lab Fee Schedule pricing to market price and we think that that ultimately will lead us to a fair outcome.
Got it that’s helpful.
And then just a follow up on some of the discussions around mix obviously you’ve launched some new genetic tests and have maybe an increased focus there with BRCA and some of the cancer panels.
At what point or is there a point in your mind where mix could eventually become a positive for you to the extent that those testing start to contribute some real growth to volumes? Yeah.
I think if you look historically up until probably even 2012 mix was always a positive for us.
I mean you look at the innovations in testing cystic fibrosis vitamin D micro arrays prenatal genetic screening and mix is -- we could pretty much count on about a percent or percent and a half of mix improvement which was reflected in price over the years.
It’s been in the last couple of years that mix has turned and again there is two parts of mix there is test mix so what tests are we performing in getting paid for and then there is payer mix so who is the ultimate entity that’s paying for the services.
Test mix has been heavily influenced by the growth in toxicology as we said on a number of occasions and has also been reflected in price by the fact that we are not getting paid for the molecular pathology testing which is at a higher price point.
Payer mix is affected by the move from uninsured to the exchanges where people are moving into high deductible plans and it’s also affected by the move from uninsured to managed Medicaid or from commercial -- from fee for service Medicaid to managed Medicaid and even from commercial into managed Medicaid.
So all of those things have been what you’ve seen in the -- and what’s reported as the weight on price particularly in the last couple of quarters.
Obviously tests like BRCA and the cancer panels and the ACD testing that I referenced in the prepared remarks all of these things are – have the potential to be a positive impacts on mix and BRCA has a very strong potential to be a positive impact on mix.
So we – as Glenn said earlier we expect that we will see the leveling off of the price decline and we will start to see improvement in the mix driven price.
Okay.
And sorry if you said this but in terms of the MoPath and guidance are you just assuming then that its just status quo with MoPath payments for 2014? Yes we are.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Your next question comes from the line of A.J.
Rice with UBS.
Please proceed.
Thanks hi everybody.
First of all just let me try to make sure I understand.
When we are talking about the cost structure review I know at one point I guess that was a sense that maybe you guys would have a sort of significant announcement where you talk about a restructuring I guess you mentioned a couple of things and your prepared that are sort of ongoing cost restructure.
Are you still thinking that at some point of time you are going to lay out a grand or a cost restructured program or is it going to be sort of incremental from here? A.J.
this is Glenn.
We are currently in the process of looking at all the opportunities in the company to streamline to potentially restructure where we feel we can be more efficient and take out cost so what we are looking at is a fairly comprehensive program.
So at the appropriate time we would expect that we would announce this comprehensive program so which would be all the cost that would incur to achieve it as well as what we believe the long term benefit of the program is.
It’s just premature to talk about it currently as we are continuing to go through the work ourselves.
Okay.
And then on with you coming on board Glenn the capital deployment thinking regard to capital deployment I know on the share repurchase front it looks like there was a moderation in the current quarter in the pace of buybacks are you taking a review of capital deployment strategies as well and is that what’s going on and maybe tie that end to relative priorities for capital deployment going forward.
Yeah obviously one of the attractive nuances of this company as we intend to generate a fairly significant free cash flow so obviously we have to use that capital wisely and there are a lot of opportunities to do it.
Historically the company is used a fairly balanced approach of acquisitions as well as share repurchases utilizing our balance sheet we are currently in that call it 2.5 times that the EBITDA targeted range albeit that will fluctuate a bit.
So wouldn’t get to focus necessarily on what we are doing quarter-to-quarter.
In particular again the second quarter was probably a little bit later once you have repurchased that historically but we’ll continue to evaluate where we can put it again acquisitions and buybacks being the two principle modes outside of just organic needs and so overtime you’ll continue to see us redeploy it where we feel we’ll get the best return for the share holders.
And your thoughts on the current status you leverage the 2.5 times is that your sort of comfort zone or do you think you could take on more I know there’s been some talk about taking that off.
Yes that effectively the 2.5 is just one metric that we would look at.
It’s really more of the philosophy of the company that we want to maintain an investment grade balance sheet.
So 2.5% times is roughly that proxy.
Having said that we have additional liquidity we are able to go higher than that we believe and still maintain investment grade with the understanding that going forward we would use the free cash flow and continue to bring it back down to that level.
So as an example should there be an acquisition or a larger buyback that ultimately would take us higher than that level with a commitment that will use the future cash flows to bring it back down.
So it’s you know a proxy for us it gives us some flexibility but we do think that its utilizing the balance sheet well and redeploying capital in appropriate fashion.
Okay alright thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Issac Ro Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed Yeah good morning guys thanks for taking the question.
I wanted to spend a minute on bad debt the comments you made there is I think about the sort of the year-on-year comp into the middle part of the year.
You know fewer uninsured people in the system those people obviously tend to drive the majority of your bad debt so theoretically that should improve.
But is sounds like on a year-over-year basis atleast in 3Q you are expecting bad debt to go up so I’ll be just curious if you could talk a little bit about how the rise of ACA coverage is impacting bad debt relative to your expectation.
Issac its Dave.
First of all what we said in the prepared remarks is that in 3Q and 4Q we expect bad debt to go back down to 4.5.
So we are not expecting bad debt to go up.
Second part of the impact of transition of patients from uninsured or from their prior insurance into exchanges is that although there are premiums set to these in the exchanges there is very limited deductible subsidies so you actually have people transitioning in the plans where although they are getting premium subsidies the average deductible that is before the patient gets $1 of payment in a silver level plan is about $3000.
So there is more dollars out to patients as these high deductible plans take effect and in the first and second quarters of the year before patients get through the deductibles you see more dollars of responsibility going out to patients that’s why we topped off the bad debt rate in this quarter.
But overtime as Glenn said in his prepared remarks we expect bad debt to go back to the 4.5% for the balance of this year and to decline with the overall impact of ACA with more patients gaining coverage.
Got it.
I was looking at the bad debt year-on-year but in sequential terms the comment there makes sense thanks.
And then just second on testing categories I was just wondering if you call out any areas of unusual strength or weakness in 2Q with regards to mix and then how your expectations there maybe shape up for the back half just trying to make sure I understand any specific dynamics around testing mix that could factor into your margins? Well we had strong growth in core testing obviously on a year-over-year basis we had strong growth in BRCA in our new swab testing in our Hepatitis-C both the screening and the reflex testing.
So there’s good solid mix of growth in both the core business and in HSR testing.
And then we did continue to have strong growth in the toxicology pay management and drugs of abuse area as well.
Got it.
Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Frank Morgan RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
You just mentioned your commentary about the bad debt outlook in the second half of the year.
I was hoping you could just hit on other items that are implied in your updated guidance what you think for both volume and pricing and do you expect to see any investment gains in the balance of the year is that contemplated in your guidance? Frank this is Glenn let me take a cut of that first with the latter part of the question.
No investment gains are forecasted in the second half and obviously to the extent that we would have any we will break that up for you.
As you think its more broadly about the implied guidance for the second half we are looking at relatively comparable topline growth in the company so in order to hit kind of that 2% rate we are going to go close to 3% kind of growth at the topline through the second half of the year and that’s obviously seasonality as you look first half to the second half like fourth quarter historically up a low quarter for the company.
Similarly we expect from a profitability to be comparable so again this goes back to the comments that Dave and I mentioned that we’re kind of leveling off plus or minus on the operating margins with where we are.
The big positive though is that the spike kind of second half first half being comparable we expect to see very improved free cash flow in the business which again it tends to be more seasonal for us as well as we tend to generate cash from working capital in the second half of the year versus the first half but nothing frankly unusual that we would expect to see in the second half other than against continued topline growth trying to leverage that realizing that we still have some of the headwins from the test and payer mix issue.
And Frank its Dave.
Just again agree with everything Glenn said excluded from the guidance is any share repurchase after June 30 any benefit from the enterprise re-engineering that we mentioned and any improvement in the MoPath position those are all not included.
And acquisitions or will acquisitions be included? There’s no significant acquisition that is contemplated in the guidance.
As you know we do tuck in acquisitions and we do them regularly and so we might do some of those and that would effect where we come out in the range but there is no material acquisition contemplated.
I got you.
One more and I’ll hop.
Just how do you see the margin profile playing out on these new areas with Beacon and Enlighten and what kind of margin profile will that business have and then how long do you think it will be before we really have some impact? Thanks.
I think it’s early to say what the margin profiles would be for those businesses and we know for example we know what the margin is for the clinical trials business but other parts of – health that were developing it.
You know we have some expectations but I don’t think we have and then we are prepared to say.
Beacon we need to get it up in working and then we’ll be able to talk more about the margin profile overtime.
So I think it will be premature to make any estimates there.
Okay.
Thanks.
We’ve got about five minutes before the hour and so we’ll have time to take a couple more questions.
I’d encourage you please not to repeat questions that have already been asked and answered.
And your next question comes from the line of Glenn Santangelo with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Oh yeah thanks Dave.
I apologize in advance but I do want to follow up on this revenue per requisition you know in the current quarter you are clearly only down 2% which is a little bit better than the 3.3% in the first quarter.
So I’m wondering if you could dimensionalize a little bit exactly.
I think you gave us some of the payer mix changes that may be weighing on that pricing component.
Could you give us and if you can give some color on test mix but as I sort of dimensionalize that 2% could you split it out between what’s payer mix and what’s test mix? Glenn we don’t split out the payer mix and test mix.
We haven’t historically and I don’t think it will be a good practice to start so we are still resting on our laurels from probably will be in – in putting the full financial statements and that’s as far as we’ll go.
Okay.
And then maybe I’ll just ask a second quick question.
I think in your prepared remarks you suggested that you are not willing to go vastly outside of the scope of your core competency but you did sort of mention from a strategic perspective that international maybe something that could be interesting to you are there any sort of markets that you sort of keeping an eye on that that could be interesting for LabCorp? I think that the most interesting markets and we outlined this a little bit in our investor presentation.
The most interesting markets are going to be markets where there is growing attention to provision of healthcare in the middle care there is growing private wells there is infrastructure to support the kind of business that we run so roads airports transportation infrastructure and there is recognition of the importance of diagnostics.
And I think largely those are going to be what I would characterize as developing markets but higher end developing markets as opposed to mature markets.
Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning thanks this is [Zach] for Ricky.
I just wanted to check on market growth versus your organic growth and I think in the first quarter your organic was 2.5% this quarter 3% so do you imply that it’s [gaining] share or that the market is growing faster? [Zach] – it’s Dave.
You know these numbers were always subject to interpretation.
I think from the perspective of looking at our business and looking at the markets around us and looking at what I think is a really excellent job of execution that we are doing at the operational level.
I think it’s hard to look at these numbers and say that share gain is not a big component of how we are growing.
So we are pleased about that and obviously our goal is to continue it.
Okay thanks.
And a quick one just on the tuck ins is it fair to assume that those are dilutive to price per requisitions to their negative mix impact? No I don’t think that’s fair to assume Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of David Clair with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning everybody thanks for taking my questions.
So I was just hoping you could give us any metrics the type of cost savings you are seeing after installing Propel in the lab? And how big of an opportunity is this as you kind of roll that out?  In terms of metrics the only metric I would give you is that we see completion times significantly improve so when we are getting the results out to the physicians we see reagent cost being reduced as a result of less retesting and more accurate placement of the specimens on the instruments and we do see a reduction in labor cost just because we have automated the front end.
We haven’t specifically spoken to and don’t intend to specifically speak to you know the exact impact of any given initiative like this.
As we say we’re always looking at the cost structure or comprehensively reviewing the opportunities to re-engineer Propel as a perfect example of how we would not re-engineer the front end to make it work better and that’s all we are going to do with the rest of the company as well.
Okay and what are your plans to roll out enlightenment and kind of beyond the initial launch here?  I think the answer to that is stay tuned because we’ll roll out specific I mean some of those components like the care intelligence platform the decision support platforms and the clinical trials business are already out and the question is our ability to grow them.
Some of the components like the genetic and genomic focus and they are applying our competencies to new areas we’ll continue to evolve overtime and we’ll talk about them as we get them up in running.
Okay.
Thank you.
At this time we have no further questions.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dave King for his closing remarks.
Thank you all very much for listening this morning.
I like to again reiterate what I said in the prepared comments which is we have positioned LabCorp to grow and thrive in this area of healthcare reform.
We are confident that quality efficiency scale and the role that we are playing in improving fair delivery and patient outcomes through our core business through our specialized testing through BeaconLBS and through EnglightenHealth will be key measure of success overtime.
And we are excited about the opportunities ahead in our ability to excel and in generating shareholder value in the years to come.
Thank you and good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great weekend.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Shantalle and I will be your facilitator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Steve Anderson.
Please proceed sir.
Good morning and welcome to LabCorp's Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
I'm Steve Anderson Vice President of Investor Relations and with me today are Dave King Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Glenn Eisenberg Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Ed Dodson Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
This morning we will highlight our progress on our 5-pillar strategy discuss our third quarter 2014 financial results and update our 2014 guidance.
Before we get started I would like to point out that there will be a replay of this conference call available via telephone and Internet.
Please refer to today's press release for replay information.
This morning the company filed a Form 8-K that included additional information on our business and operations.
This information is also available on our website.
Analysts and investors are directed to this 8-K and our website to review this supplemental information.
Additionally we refer you to today's press release which is available on our website for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call to GAAP.
These non-GAAP measures include adjusted EPS free cash flow and adjusted operating income.
I would also like to point out that we are making forward-looking statements during this conference call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results the implementation of our business strategy and the ongoing benefits from acquisitions.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect the company's financial results.
Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our 2013 10-K and will be included in subsequent filings with the SEC.
The company has no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dave King.
Thank you Steve.
Good morning.
We are pleased with the strong revenue and volume growth that we have generated this year and believe that the long-term growth prospects for our business and the industry remain great.
We employ our 5-pillar strategy to capitalize on these opportunities and I would now like to highlight our key initiatives within this strategy.
With respect to pillar 1 we deploy our capital to investments that enhance our business and return capital to shareholders.
Last month we announced our acquisition of LipoScience a premier esoteric laboratory focused on personalized diagnostics for cardiovascular and metabolic disorders.
The NMR LipoProfile test is the only FDA-cleared test for measuring LDL particle numbers offering actionable information for physicians and patients in the management of cardiovascular disease.
Hence this acquisition will enhance our innovative clinical decision support programs allowing us to provide broader differentiated knowledge services to physicians and patients.
Furthermore the novel application of nuclear magnetic resonance technology furthers our leadership in scientific innovation.
This transaction is expected to be accretive to LabCorp's earnings in year 1 and to earn its cost of capital by year 3.
Earlier this month the Federal Trade Commission granted early termination of the HSR waiting period for this acquisition and we expect it to close during the fourth quarter.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately $66 million of our shares bringing our year-to-date total to $228 million.
Our cash balance at the end of the third quarter was $576 million but this cash balance does not reflect any change in our capital allocation philosophy.
We anticipate reducing this cash balance in future quarters continuing to make strategic acquisitions as well as returning capital to our shareholders.
Under pillar 2 we aim to enhance our IT capabilities to improve the physician and patient experience.
We continue to improve our tools that assist physicians and patients in interpreting test results and optimizing decision-making.
To this end we are partnering with Wolters Kluwer to develop UpToDate adviser for labs a decision-support resource for clinicians interpreting test results.
This partnership equips clinicians with real-time contextual laboratory decision-support content delivered while the clinician is reviewing results.
Similar content will be made available to patients which will help them to review and understand their lab results.
That content will be available through our Patient Portal where registrations now exceed 625 000 patients and these patients currently review over 120 000 reports via the portal each month.
We believe that providing patients with tools that help them understand their health is fundamental to reducing costs and improving outcomes.
With respect to pillar 3 we continue to improve efficiency to offer the most compelling value in laboratory services.
Our Propel robots in our Burlington and Tampa laboratories continue to drive expense reduction through improvements in throughput and accuracy and to enhance service levels.
We remain on schedule to begin the installation of Propel in our Dublin Ohio facility at the end of this year and we plan to install Propel in 5 additional facilities over the next 2 years.
We continue to streamline our operations and reduce expenses through facility rationalization.
The consolidations of our facilities at Mitchel Field New York and Monrovia California into our Connecticut and Santa Fe laboratories respectively are now complete.
Also we continue to consolidate services expand our test offerings and leverage increased capacity in our center for specialty and clinical testing located in Phoenix Arizona.
We are building significant momentum on our enterprise-wide business process improvement initiative and we have initiated several projects that will begin to bear fruit in 2015.
We are reengineering our business to provide a better operating platform sustainable long-term savings and a world-class customer experience.
We plan to discuss this initiative in detail when we report our year-end results and provide our 2015 guidance in February.
Under pillar 4 we continue our scientific innovation at reasonable and appropriate pricing.
We recently launched our informaSeq Prenatal Test an advanced non-invasive next-generation prenatal screening assay that assesses risk for multiple fetal chromosomal abnormalities from a single maternal blood draw.
There are testing options for several additional common sex-related abnormalities as part of informaSeq.
We have also recently launched our BRCA Next-Generation Sequencing assay which provides complete gene sequence analysis of BRCA1 and 2.
In combination with our Care Coordination preauthorization service LabCorp offers an end-to-end program that includes compliance with insurance requirements comprehensive testing and expert interpretation from our licensed directors and our team of 123 board-certified genetic counselors and 9 medical geneticists.
We also continue to see growth in our companion diagnostic assays that help physicians guide targeted drug therapy.
For example our HCV GenoSure NS3/4A assay is the first commercially available test to provide drug resistance data for new HCV antivirals.
With respect to pillar 5 we continue our progress in developing knowledge services.
Last month we announced the launch of Enlighten Health Genomics and later this quarter Enlighten Health Genomics will introduce ExomeReveal a whole Exome sequencing testing service.
ExomeReveal will provide genome-wide interpretation for children with serious genetic diseases as well as additional diagnostic information for patients of any age.
Because evidence increasingly suggests that early genetic diagnosis can improve clinical outcomes patients with serious genetic conditions require a thorough interpretation of their genome.
We will offer innovative and affordable diagnostic solutions that make genomic testing accessible to support critical clinical diagnoses.
We continue to develop all aspects of our Enlighten Health initiative our decision support programs our Care Intelligence data analytics programs and our clinical trials business.
Our data and analytics tools help physicians understand their metrics of care delivery and improve compliance with pay-for-performance and population health metrics.
Our disease-specific expertise in kidney stone chronic kidney disease cardiovascular disease and coagulation help physicians tailor specific treatment programs for their patients.
Finally our clinical trials central lab business serves physicians and patients by working with pharmaceutical companies to create vertical alignment from drug design to identification of unique patient populations that will respond to therapy.
As discussed on our last earnings call we invested in BeaconLBS in 2011 because we understood that providers need assistance in selecting the right test for their patients and payers need help at appropriately managing the utilization of laboratory testing.
After extensive market analysis and an enormous amount of hard work we invented a tool that helps physicians choose the right test at the right time and helps payers improve quality of care and thoughtfully address concerns about unit cost and trend.
UnitedHealthcare launched the innovative Laboratory Benefit Management Program with BeaconLBS in Florida on October 1 and we are pleased with the rollout thus far.
We have positioned LabCorp to grow through the era of health care reform a time in which quality efficiency scale and essential role in improving care delivery and patient outcomes will be the key measures of success.
Our 5-pillar strategy will enable us to excel in all of these areas generating shareholder value for years to come.
Now I'll turn the call over to Glenn to review our financial results.
Thank you Dave.
Sales for the quarter were $1.6 billion an increase of 6.1% over last year.
The increase in sales was the result of strong volume measured by requisitions and acquisitions which was partially offset by price mix and currency.
Total volume increased 6.9% over last year with most of the growth coming organically.
Revenue per requisition decreased 0.7% of which 0.3% was due to foreign currency translation.
Top line growth was spread evenly across our core and esoteric businesses.
From a payer perspective managed care revenue increased the most at roughly 10% while pricing remained relatively flat.
The increase in managed care revenue was driven in part by the Affordable Care Act.
Gross profit for the quarter was $571 million or 36.8% of sales.
This compares to gross profit of $548 million or 37.5% of sales last year.
The increase in gross profit was due to volume and productivity which was partially offset by price mix personnel cost and depreciation.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was $306 million or 19.7% of sales compared to $279 million or 19.1% last year.
During the quarter we incurred $5 million of special charges primarily related to our business process improvement initiative.
The remainder of the increase was due to personnel costs acquisitions and an increase in bad debt expense.
While the bad debt rate was higher than last year it was down from last quarter and we expect to continue to make progress on lowering this rate in the future.
During the quarter we had $6 million of restructuring and special items primarily due to facility closures and related severance compared to $4 million last year.
Operating income was $241 million or 15.6% of sales compared to $245 million or 16.7% of sales last year.
Excluding restructuring and special charges totaling $11 million adjusted operating income was $253 million or 16.3% of sales compared to $248 million or 17% last year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $26 million compared to $25 million last year.
The increase was driven by higher debt balances as a result of our debt financings in the fourth quarter of last year partially offset by the benefit of fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps on a portion of our debt.
The tax rate for the quarter was 37.2% compared to 35.3% last year.
The increase in the tax rate over last year was the result of benefits related to discrete items realized in the third quarter of 2013.
As a result net income for the quarter were $137 million or $1.59 per diluted share.
This compares to $148 million or $1.63 per diluted share last year.
Excluding amortization restructuring and other special items adjusted EPS was $1.80 unchanged from last year.
We continue to generate strong cash flow.
During the quarter operating cash flow was $176 million compared to $234 million last year as we used working capital to support strong top line growth.
Capital expenditures totaled $53 million which was essentially unchanged from last year.
As a result free cash flow or cash from operating activities after capital expenditures was $123 million compared to $182 million last year.
As Dave mentioned during the third quarter we repurchased $66 million of our stock bringing our year-to-date share repurchases to $228 million.
We ended the quarter with approximately $824 million remaining under our Board-authorized share repurchase program.
Our full year guidance for 2014 is for sales growth of approximately 3%.
Given our performance in the third quarter and outlook for the year we have increased our 2014 adjusted EPS guidance to $6.70 to $6.80.
Operating cash flow was targeted at $760 million to $780 million while capital expenditures are projected to be $200 million to $205 million.
As a result free cash flow is now projected at $555 million to $580 million.
The lower free cash flow range is reflective of additional working capital needs to support our strong top line growth as well as investments associated with our business process improvement initiative and restructuring activities.
This ends our formal remarks and now we'll be happy to take any questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Dave can you speak to your expectations for Enlighten Health Genomics and how the money will flow there what kind of payer support we should see? And also just what are your plans for the Canadian infrastructure with some business moving away from you there? Bob it's Dave.
The plans for Enlighten Health Genomics at least initially are that the offering will be directed largely toward the self-pay market.
So part of the reason that it's under Enlighten Health and part of the reason that it's a broader whole Exome offering than our traditional reproductive genetics business is as we indicated is targeting the market for early childhood development developmental delay and early childhood severe genetic diseases.
I'm sure over time there will involve to be a commercial payer component of that.
And our expectations are given the severity of the disease states that we're looking at that we'll have a successful payment experience even with the commercial payers.
With regard to Canada I'm going to ask Glenn to comment on that as he is directly involved in the day-to-day handling of that situation which as you know is the Alberta RFP.
Yes Robert this is Glenn.
To your point we currently are servicing the Alberta Health System and they did an RFP a while ago and have chosen to go with another company at least at this stage to now negotiate a new transaction with them.
As you know we're a minority investor in that company DynaLIFE.
And while the results are not material to us obviously we're very disappointed with the decision that's been made by AHS.
Having said that we've not been debriefed yet by them as far as why we didn't go ahead and have our business re-upped.
And then there's an appeals process that follows that should we elect to do that.
So getting disappointed with it.
We feel Canada is a very attractive market.
We are already there outside of just this minority joint venture that we have elsewhere in Canada and we'll continue to pursue all the options we have to continue to perform business out there.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Josh in for Darren.
I'm hoping you can shed some light on your operating leverage and with the increased volume you've been getting is there any reason why you haven't been getting better operating leverage out of the operating income? Josh it's Dave.
I'll start and then turn it over to Glenn.
I mean I think the obvious answer is that when the difference in operating leverage is the decline in price so if you look at versus last year we're down 70 basis points in price.
If you add that price differential back in our operating leverage is basically about the same.
When you think about the foundation model which we've talked about for years the assumption in the foundation model is that price is flat to slightly up.
And you may recall with the benefit of positive mix we used to get 50 to 100 basis points of positive price from the -- just from mix-driven price.
So when price is flat to increasing there's great leverage and obviously as price is declining it's more difficult to get leverage because every incremental specimen that comes in the door requires reagents requires labor requires infrastructure costs.
And in a declining price environment it's difficult to get leverage.
But we are very pleased with the price improvements sequentially from the second quarter to the third quarter and from the beginning of the year through this point in the year and have every reason to expect that that would continue.
Glenn? No it's -- maybe I'll just add just a little bit of color because I think that addresses it pretty well.
I think where we're pleased is the amount of organic growth that we're experiencing in the company pleased with the amount of productivity that we're getting through that as we leverage our lab.
But as Dave said when you have price and mix issues obviously that falls down to the bottom line.
In addition we've had some bad debt rate increase and expense that again we think we peaked that on.
So as we go forward we would expect to see that to start to show favorable comps which will help.
Again I don't know if you're looking at it on an as-adjusted basis but we also had some restructuring in special items.
And to that point in recognition of the fact that we are seeing the margin squeeze because of pricing we're really looking at this business process improvement initiative and restructuring in order to continue to leverage our cost structure which will continue to benefit the company as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And if I could just have one more.
Can you guys give us an update on your progress with molecular pathology payment in onset of state Medicaid programs? Yes it's Dave.
We continue to work with the state Medicaid programs we have and there are some managed Medicaid programs as well that have been challenging for us.
While we have made some progress there the progress has been slower than I would like.
So we have now undertaken a review of accounts that are generating a large amount of MoPath volumes and high write-offs and relatively -- other relatively small amounts of other business.
And we're starting to shed those accounts because they are generating a large amount of MoPath volumes high write-offs so there's a significant amount of expense in performing the MoPath.
So we're attacking the problem on both sides one is continuing to work with the payers and the other is pruning accounts that are basically in our view just using the opportunity to send us MoPath with the recognition that we're not going to get reimbursed for it.
Your next question comes from the line of Per Ostlund of Craig-Hallum.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask quickly about the cash balance it's grown here the last couple of quarters quite nicely.
I'm sure some of that here in Q3 you've kind of got that set aside for the LipoScience transaction.
But just wondering if we could get your kind of most current thoughts on the appropriate leverage for the company and share repurchase.
Yes sure Per Ostlund.
As Dave made a comment I guess in his opening remarks we do recognize that our cash balances have increased.
The good news is obviously we continue to generate good free cash flow that's providing that while we continue to pursue acquisitions and do share repurchases.
We've not changed our call it targeted leverage the 2.5x debt to EBITDA which we realize that on a net basis we would be below that level right now given our cash balances.
So we continue to look at opportunities we continue to expect to redeploy our capital and we would continue to at least expect that that cash balance will decline over future periods.
Your next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Dave I know I asked about this last quarter around BeaconLBS but just given the things you've highlighted today around the doctor making the right test decision at the right time et cetera I'm just curious if you compare those doctors that are using this versus a similar doctor are you seeing them doing more lab tests less lab tests? And what do you think that that means for the future if you continue to see this roll out to other physicians? Lisa it's Dave.
I think it's too early to draw any conclusions about more lab tests or fewer lab tests from the population of users of BeaconLBS.
I would point you to the slide in our investor deck that talks about 20% overutilization of lab tests in certain circumstances and 45% utilization in other common diseases -- sorry 45% underutilization in other common disease states.
So the point is BeaconLBS is really less about overutilization/underutilization than it is about choosing the right test for the patient at the right time based on a Q&amp;A that's presented to the physician.
So I think as we think about over time and again refer you to the investor deck the slide that shows the growth in number of lab tests per patient in the population from 1997 to 2008 and also the increase in lab test per patient per year as patients age I don't think we're talking about dramatic decreases in volume of laboratory testing as a result of trying to manage cost and trend.
I think what we're talking about is exactly what we've always talked about which is better use of lab testing for diagnostics better use of the tools to get at the disease state and better use of lab testing in support of precision medicine and personalized care.
And that's the goal not only of BeaconLBS but also of our decision-support programs.
It's all about how do we get the right test to the right patient at the right time because we are here for the patient and how do we use lab testing to integrate with other data that will enhance the care that the physician is able to provide to the patient.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just thinking about the right tests can you maybe just give us any update you have around BRCA as far as what you're seeing around test volumes there? Sure.
We're very pleased with BRCA volumes.
We've seen very nice steady growth since the time that we launched it.
Moving to the Next-Gen Sequencing platform has enabled us to significantly increase the speed of performing the test.
So most of the "BRCA backlog" that we have is due to the preauthorization requirements and we wait for preauthorization.
But volume continues to grow the throughput in the lab is excellent and we're very very pleased with where we are in the market.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Brokmeier of Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Last quarter you mentioned that it was hard to identify the benefit from ACA but there was a slight benefit.
Now about 3 months later it seems that it may have been a greater impact in the quarter.
As we look to people getting more coverage next year should we think about it taking about 3 months for members to get their benefit cards and start utilizing benefits? Or any sort of thoughts on what benefit you'll get next year? Bryan it's Dave.
I think the benefit from ACA has been greater than we have expected from a volume perspective this year.
I think if you go back and look at what we said starting in the fourth quarter of last year that we expected ACA to be relatively neutral maybe a slight net positive.
I mean obviously from a volume perspective I think ACA has contributed to our growth and particularly to the very strong organic growth.
I think it's hard to know next year because there are many factors up in the air.
Medicaid -- the potential of Medicaid expansion in some additional states some of the grandfathered plans or the plans that were allowed to be grandfathered for 1 more year that were noncompliant going away and people moving to the exchanges.
Patients -- pre-Medicare patients moving to exchanges and even some managed Medicare moving to the exchanges.
So I'm hesitant to forecast what it would be particularly given the inaccuracy of my earlier forecast.
But we do see ACA as a net positive in terms of volume.
And again as we have mentioned there is somewhat of a drag on price due to test mix and also due to payer mix.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And I know that your guidance does not include future share repurchases or M&amp;A.
But could you talk a little bit about what other assumptions are built into your outlook in terms of health care utilization molecular pathology reimbursement or other key issues that are being built into your outlook? Bryan this is Glenn.
You're right for the share repurchases and M&amp;A we don't after the third quarter so project that out.
But obviously we continue to be in the market and again have an acquisition that we announced albeit would not be material to our fourth quarter results albeit hopefully we do close it in the quarter.
The rest of the guidance is based upon just essentially the organic growth that we're seeing.
We've given guidance at the top line for the year so you kind of get an implication of what that means for the fourth quarter.
Similarly we expect to have good operating performance and results in the fourth quarter.
I think this was a question earlier with the pressures that we've been having from price and mix you can see that the comps for the quarter compared to the quarter a year ago each time the margin differential is narrowing so we're starting to see that price mix abate a bit.
So hopefully with good volume we'll start to see good leverage with pricing and mix not impacting as much.
We're -- now hopefully we'll start to see some favorable comps on margins year-over-year.
And Bryan just a thought.
Just one other thing.
So we're not assuming any improvement in the MoPath specifically we're not assuming any improvement in the MoPath payment experience.
And we also have not factored in any financial benefit from the enterprise-wide reengineering although obviously the cost side of that is factored in.
Your next question comes from the line of Amanda Murphy of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the mix conversation.
So just given all of your new tests and directions specifically the NGS testing is there -- I guess what are your expectations longer term around mix? I know obviously not expecting guidance commentary but do you think that possibly we could see an improvement in the -- at least from a tough mix perspective in 2015? Amanda it's Dave.
Yes I think that if you look at the tests that were launched in the informaSEQ the various NGS methodologies the -- all of the infectious disease-related tests that follow on the HCV screening the Exome business I mean all of these are high value.
We also were pleased to see that from a mix perspective we had an increase in pathology volume this quarter which as you know has been a challenging area for us.
So all of these things helped mix.
And I think over -- again all other things being equal we would expect to see mix improve next year.
The unknown in that is that the mix component particularly of the ACA/managed Medicaid is a mix that is more driven towards the -- or more weighted towards the core testing and so that offsets some of the benefit.
And partly that's because of payment policies of not paying for molecular pathology and genetic testing and partly it's just because of patients new in the system are getting tests that are more weighted toward core testing.
So there are a lot of moving parts in there but we continue to strive to return to that 40% esoteric mix and obviously over time we've said 45% and we think that's a realistic aspiration for ourselves.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just again on the Next-Gen topic.
So I'm wondering how close are you guys or how much visibility do you have into some of the pricing of the new Next-Gen code for 2015? I guess I'm wondering is there a risk around that side of the business similar to what we saw with MoPath where you see new test codes come online and maybe payers are less -- more reluctant to pay for them? I don't think we have a lot of visibility into the -- into Next-Gen codes.
So far our experience with payment for Next-Gen methodology has been fine because again it's a different methodology for performing testing that already has codes assigned.
So it's too early to tell at this time but I will tell you that we're working very hard to avoid a repeat of the MoPath situation in terms of payer policies and utilization.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor of Citi.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Just a follow-up on your ACA volume comments.
I just wanted to see are you suggesting as the year progressed that you've just continued to see more Medicaid volume coming through? Or are you seeing more health care exchange volume? Or is the answer both? Gary it's Dave.
The Medicaid volume was a much bigger percentage of growth in the earlier quarters than it is now.
So that's actually abated over time and it's very hard to attribute that with any precision.
But you could argue that that was people who were getting coverage for the first time under the ACA and were going to the doctor at the beginning of the year.
That has -- the -- Medicaid make no mistake managed Medicaid has grown significantly this year but the percentage of overall growth that it accounts for has declined from the first quarter to the second quarter and declined again from the second to the third.
In terms of the exchanges we don't have a lot of visibility about who are our exchange patients because again they just come to us with an insurance card and that insurance card says that they have XYZ insurance.
It doesn't say that they are exchange patients.
So we are seeing as Glenn mentioned strong revenue growth from the managed care payer set and some of that undoubtedly is exchange-based and some of it is growth in commercial lines.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question just looking at the gross profit this quarter which you guys did touch on.
But what's interesting to me is I think as far back as our model goes I don't think we've ever had gross profit dollars up sequentially from 2Q to 3Q.
And so I just wondered if you could -- I mean obviously the revenue growth in the quarter was part of that dynamic but even the sequential gross profit margin decline was much less than we would typically see.
So I just wonder is there anything else from that dynamic worth discussing? And it doesn't look like much of that was really carried into what's left for the fourth quarter in terms of gross margin assumption so any extra on that? Just as a general comment to your point gross profit is growing because of the benefit of the volume that we're getting.
We talked earlier about just the price mix while it's a little bit of a headwind it's been mitigating.
So the additional volume we're getting is helping the gross margin.
As we look forward again we got kind of given the implied numbers for the fourth quarter so we actually expect to see a pretty good comparison year-over-year still having a bit of a headwinds.
But when you look sequentially the fourth quarter normally would be a lower-volume period for us compared to the third so from a trend if you will expect that.
But we're pleased at least with the volume there with the productivity that we're getting.
Gross profit it's going to be holding into that kind of range and that we should start to see now even better leverage on our cost structure as we go forward especially that now this is on the S&amp;A side as the bad debt now starts to compare favorably from period-to-period.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Last question just kind of big picture from an investment perspective and kind of going back to the foundation model that you talked about.
But when you look at overall operating income margins have declined since 2008.
We all know the reasons for that.
But as we look into '15 Dave you talked about an expectation that mix would improve.
I don't know if that yet means that revenue per rep actually can grow in a material way in '15 or not.
But really it seems like with volumes having recovered that the bulk of the margin outlook from here is really predicated on that pricing outlook.
So as we look into '15 you've got a new cost-saving program you're going to talk about you're expecting mix to improve.
Now is it fair to have expectations at this point that operating margin actually grows in 2015? Gary we obviously are in the process of working through our budget which leads to our guidance in February so I'm not going to answer the question directly because I think it would be unfair to do so.
But what I will say is when we think about 2015 at least what we're seeing in the trends we have no major managed care renewals.
We have a trend of volume strengthening through 2014.
Now again some of that could be one time because of ACA but obviously we're very pleased with the volume and particularly the organic volume contribution in this quarter.
Price has been moderating and no guarantee that that continues but we've lapped some of the major pricing events the doc fix cut sequestration the major impact of MoPath.
So what I would say is there aren't any obvious reasons as I think about the performance in 2014 why we shouldn't see operating margin improvement in 2015.
There's no obvious headwinds that are blowing on our faces at the moment but -- and we feel good about that.
But things could change and so I'm not going to kind of put a stake in the ground right now and say "Yes you should expect to see operating margins improve." That would be our hope based on the continuation of the -- if we see the continuation of these positive trends.
Your next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have a follow-up question on the growth you're seeing for your managed care business and really how it compares to total.
So I think Dave you mentioned 10% growth in the managed care business.
And if we think about it it's being about 45% of the revenues is it fair to assume that it contributed about 4.5% to top line growth and then maybe the rest of your payers and businesses are growing more in line with the market at the 1.5-ish percent to 2% revenue growth? I mean is that a fair way to look at it? Ricky this is Glenn.
Overall again we did comment that managed care was the strongest growth of the payer groups that we have but it is a little bit of a mix.
So some of that growth is coming out of other areas as opposed to just natural growth such as patient if you will and third party that may have moved into that.
But overall when we look at from a test perspective we saw a pretty broad growth really across both the core and the esoteric parts of our business.
But from a shift to your point managed care is coming in at roughly around 45% of the business that we have.
So from a mix standpoint it increased greater than our other payer categories.
But again with the exception I guess of client that would have been up a fair amount as well.
Others would have come down and moved into those categories.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just as a follow-up just to tie it to the margin discussion because I think this is one of the areas that are a little bit confusing to us.
Should we assume that given the moving parts in that managed care bucket with ACA lives et cetera that maybe for the time being that managed care payer segment might be lower margin than some of the other payers and that's why you haven't seen the leverage in the margins yet? Ricky it's Dave.
Again managed care is a very large -- we have over 2 000 2 500 managed care relationships and contracts so it's not accurate to paint managed care as having a particular margin.
We don't have margins within our business.
As I think we've said on a number of occasions when a specimen goes through the instrument the instrument doesn't care if it's a Medicare specimen a Medicaid specimen or a managed care specimen.
We don't have margins by payer.
What I would say is the growth in managed care particularly what you saw in the first quarter and to some extent in the second quarter of the year was overweighted toward movement of patients who previously were uninsured into managed Medicaid.
So that just from a pure price perspective accounted for a lot of the drag that you saw.
And you saw that starting to abate in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just also just lastly I noted in the past you talked about on average 2% to 3% top line growth is kind of a base growth.
And once you've kind of get past it you can start seeing the leverage in the margin.
Again not assuming the moving parts around Medicaid population does that still hold? Yes as long as price is flat to up that still holds.
Your next question comes from the line of David Clair of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So first one from me I'm just curious if maybe you can give us your thoughts on FDA regulation of LDTs and how that might impact your business.
David it's Dave.
My perspective on FDA regulation of LDTs is quite clear and I've been pretty vocal about it.
Diagnostic testing is not a device it's a medical service.
LDTs the FDA in our view does not have the authority to regulate LDTs as medical devices.
They don't have the statutory authority to do that because medical tests are not devices.
On top of that the attempt to make this kind of regulatory change through a guidance document which on its face says that it's not binding on the FDA and only reflects their current views and yet in this document lays out a 10-year regulatory plan with registration requirements and penalties for those who don't register to me is just incomprehensible.
So my perspective is this is one of the biggest land grab attempts in the history of regulation.
And from my perspective we intend to vigorously oppose it.
What could it do to our business? I mean first of all it could dramatically affect the practice of medicine and it is the practice of medicine when doctors select what test to use.
And I don't understand how FDA thinks that somehow creating this great regulatory system around laboratory developed tests is going to help doctors practice medicine.
It interferes with the practice of medicine where doctors make rational choices about the tests that they want to use.
Furthermore there's been no study of the economic impact on our industry on patients or on the practice of medicine related to this because FDA has not followed the proper administrative procedure for doing what it's trying to do.
So I think you can tell that I feel very very strongly about this and my perspective is that we as an industry need to oppose this attempt at regulation as strongly as we possibly can.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I was hoping to get an update on the noninvasive prenatal testing business.
And do you think that right now we're primarily -- you're seeing primarily high-risk volume? Or do you think we're starting to see some average risk volume there? Well my understanding is that the test is approved and being offered for high-risk patients.
Now there's no question that -- again let's go back to the last question you asked which was LDTs and the practice of medicine.
Some physicians in the course of the practice of medicine are choosing noninvasive prenatal screening for average-risk patients.
That's the physician's choice.
We are certainly not marketing the test or presenting the test that way.
I will say that most of the payers have policies against payment for noninvasive prenatal testing for average risk.
And I think to get a payment -- to get payment in place the test is going to just need more data to support its use in the average risk population.
Your next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk a little bit about utilization in the context of fourth quarter.
I think we've seen a relatively steady uptick in seasonality into fourth quarter of the last few years and was wondering if your guidance assumes that we'll see another sort of seasonal uptick versus past years.
Isaac it's Dave.
The guidance assumes that the fourth quarter will be much like prior fourth quarters in the sense that major contributors to our performance are holidays weather limited -- a fewer number of revenue days because of Thanksgiving and obviously the Christmas and New Year's season.
So what we do is obviously we build the guidance off the full year model and we look at prior fourth quarter experience and incorporate that in and I can't say that it does or does not include seasonal upticks in volume or seasonal downticks in volume.
It's just the guidance as we always say encompasses a wide range of outcomes and it's built on a model based on past experience.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just secondly a question on bad debt.
I think earlier in your comments you said that you thought that the bad debt dynamic has peaked here.
I was hoping you could help us understand the reasoning for that process.
Yes Isaac this is Glenn.
Again it's just a very proactive approach to doing it.
Bad debt just given the volumes we have will go up.
But what we've seen is that from a rate standpoint based upon historical performance we saw our rate rise.
We now have seen a trend for -- this current quarter is now down from the prior quarter around 20 basis points.
If we maintain that level currently which is at least our expectation now that it will start to comp favorably to the rate that we would have the same period a year ago.
We continue to be very proactive.
Part of our business process improvement initiative as well encompasses how we go about our efforts to collect and we're encouraged about the initial progress that we're seeing and we would expect that to continue.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Cherny of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So Glenn one quick question and I apologize if I missed this.
Did you give the actual contribution from nonorganic revenue in the quarter? We did not.
We gave that kind of from a volume standpoint we were up around 6.9% with most of that coming from organic.
You're looking at a little over call it 5.5% give or take would come from organic and call it 1 point 1.5 points coming from acquisitions.
Research Division</strong> That's quite helpful.
And then Dave a question for you and going back to a topic I know has been one you're focused on from a government perspective.
Now that we're a little bit ways past the doc fix and the clinical lab fee schedule review push out how do you start to think about the positioning ahead of the review that's going to go into place for 2017 adjustments? How are you guys positioning yourselves with CMS and going about again proving your point as to the value you provide relative to the review that's going to come up in the market-based pricing that will be put in place.
I just want to get a sense now that -- we're 6 months past now so maybe you have a differentiated view versus where you've been before.
Sure.
So we've actually -- quite recently the ACLA membership went and met over at CMS with folks who were working on the -- how the market survey is going to be formulated and how they're going to evaluate market pricing.
And I think the good news coming away from that discussion is that first of all CMS recognizes it's a complex task that they've been assigned.
And I think second of all they generally want to do a good job because I think the understanding of the -- of all the parties was -- that what was intended was yes market-based pricing but it had to be based on true market.
It's not just independent lab market.
It's not just select market pricing or select test pricing.
It's the true market and the true market has to include commercial payer pricing to hospital laboratories that are paid on an average basis or paid off a commercial lab fee schedule.
So obviously there's a lot of work to be done here.
And there will be -- my understanding is there'll be a proposed rule on how the surveys will be conducted that’s going to be coming out from CMS later this year.
We are working collaboratively with them as an industry to try to make this a fair process and to get the outcome that the Senate Finance Committee and the government and we agreed which was the right outcome which is a market-based pricing benchmark but again representative of the true market for laboratory services including all competitors in the marketplace.
Your next question comes from the line of A.J.
Rice of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Real quick I guess.
So if we took your 6% organic growth -- 6% revenue growth this quarter and you maintain your full year guidance at 3% I think that implies that your fourth quarter year-to-year growth steps back down to 3%.
I know -- I understand about the -- that every year the fourth quarter has some seasonal issues in it but I guess is there any reason to think that the pace of year-to-year growth that you've seen in the third quarter would moderate in the fourth quarter? A.J.
this is Glenn and then ask Dave if he wants to share in the color.
You're right our expectation for the fourth year-over-year is call it the 3.3% based on the implied guidance.
So that would take the seasonality out if you will from a year-over-year.
So clearly it's a reason why sequentially our fourth quarter estimate is down from the third quarter for the reasons that Dave alluded to earlier.
Again we still feel that there's good strong organic growth that's in that.
We're still seeing some negative implications from price mix that will affect it but it's becoming less and less.
So the good news is that while the growth on the volume is now at that 3 plus or minus percent growth we're starting to now get leverage even off of that level.
So that we'll continue to see comparability in our margins and earnings if you will year-over-year at that 3% level of revenue growth and hopefully even -- we'll see even better leverage than that.
And -- it's Dave.
Just -- the only other comment I'd make is back to an earlier observation about we did see a relative spike in the fourth quarter of last year so again it's the year-over-year comp that you're looking at we think about the sequential comp as being reasonably consistent in terms of the growth rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe if I could just ask you I think you mentioned the Alberta contract and I think we know how much of volumes that is.
But is there any commentary about how much revenues and when would that roll off if you're not successful on your appeals? So just to be clear A.J.
we don't consolidate the revenue so it does not have any revenue impact.
It only has an impact below the line and it's quite immaterial.
A.J.
the contract that we currently have I believe takes us through 2016.
And as Dave said given that we're a minority investor in it we don't consolidate it so revenues don't show and the earnings obviously we take below the line which again we don't want to give up but it's not material.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over back to Mr.
Dave King for closing remarks.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you very much.
We thank you all for joining us on our call this morning and we hope that you have a great day.
Good day.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2014 Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Katrina and I’ll be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will facilitate a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I’d now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call Mr.
Stephen Anderson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning and welcome to LabCorp's fourth quarter and full-year 2014 conference call.
With me today are Dave King Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Glenn Eisenberg Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Jay Boyle Chief Executive Officer of LabCorp Diagnostics; Joe Herring Chief Executive Officer of Covance Drug Development and Paul Surdez Vice President of Investor Relations.
This morning we will recap our 2014 performance discuss our 2015 priorities provide an update on our Covance acquisition introduce Project LaunchPad our enterprise-wide business process improvement initiative and issue our 2015 guidance.
Before we get started I’d like to point out that there will be a replay of this conference call available via telephone and Internet.
Please refer to today's press release for replay information.
This morning the Company filed a Form 8-K that included additional information on our business and operations.
This information is also available on our Web site.
Analysts and investors are directed to this 8-K and our Web site to review this supplemental information.
Additionally we refer you to today's press release which is available on our Web site for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call to GAAP.
These non-GAAP measures include adjusted EPS free cash flow and adjusted operating income.
I’d also like to point out that we are making forward-looking statements during this conference call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results the implementation of our business strategy and the ongoing benefits from acquisitions.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect the Company's financial results.
Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our 2013 10-K and in our subsequent filings with the SEC and will be included in our 2014 10-K and subsequent filings with the SEC.
The Company has no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dave King.
Thank you Steve.
I’ll start by recapping 2014.
We delivered a strong operating performance exceeding $6 billion in revenue and generating total volume growth including acquisitions of 5.3%.
After a challenging first quarter due to extraordinary weather our performance improved sequentially throughout the year.
In the fourth quarter revenue increased by 5.3% over the fourth quarter of 2013 and we posted year-over-year improvement in adjusted operating income adjusted operating income margin and adjusted EPS.
We also achieved strong organic growth in the fourth quarter and for the year.
We are very pleased with our 2014 performance.
Late last year we made a very important strategic movement the Covance acquisition.
This transaction is the culmination of years of thinking about how to best position our Company for the future and I’m very proud of our team for its dedication and tenacity in completing the acquisition.
We have made a transformational move for our Company and over time the combined company will enhance drug development laboratory diagnostics and healthcare delivery.
This merger creates a unique combination of capabilities that positions the new LabCorp to bring innovative and higher value solutions to clients of both predecessor companies.
We close the Covance acquisition yesterday and we are off to a strong start on the integration of the businesses.
Going forward we will operate in two segments LabCorp Diagnostics and Covance Drug Development which we expect to be closely aligned in furthering our correlation of improving patient's lives by providing world-class diagnostics and knowledge services.
Jay Boyle who has been exceptional Chief Operating Officer of LabCorp over the last five years is now Chief Executive Officer of LabCorp Diagnostics.
Joe Herring who has successfully led Covance for over a decade and has been a great partner since we announced the transaction is now Chief Executive Officer of Covance Drug Development.
Joe and Jay will report to me.
Although the flawless integration of Covance is of utmost importance I want to emphasize that it will not cause us to lose focus on the 2015 priorities for LabCorp Diagnostics which include these three clear initiatives.
First we will continue to focus on opportunities to grow in both core and esoteric testing.
We will build on our strong 2014 performance in organic growth managed care contracting new test introductions and strategic acquisitions.
We remain optimistic about the long-term prospects of the lab industry and our laboratory business.
Second we will continue to make progress with our innovative products and services.
The Beacon LBS team is pushing toward its goal of full implementation.
Enlighten Health continues to expand having launched ExomeReveal the genome wide interpretation service and recently introduced an innovative patient friendly diabetes report that graphically displays results.
Third to complement our focus on top line growth we’ve systematically reviewed our business and operating model to see where we can improve our performance.
Project LaunchPad is the Company’s enterprise-wide business process improvement initiative.
It consists of projects designed to reengineer the Company’s systems and processes leverage technological advancements and make sustainable reductions in our cost base.
LaunchPad is not a short-term cost-cutting measure.
It is a long-term structural change in how we deliver our services.
We are pursuing projects that will fundamentally improve the experience of everyone involved in the LabCorp diagnostics value chain from provider to customer to payer to our valued employees.
We expect this initiative to drive net savings in excess of a $150 million over the next three years.
Glenn will provide additional details on LaunchPad in a few minutes.
Now let me update you on the Covance acquisition which will deliver new services to the pharmaceutical industry drive share gains in both the diagnostics and drug development businesses and benefit healthcare stakeholders and our shareholders.
Our new combined company has a strong management team relationships with nearly every major player in the healthcare industry a global footprint and a unique wealth of data.
With these assets we expect to win a greater share of clinical trials enhance and grow our market leading central lab business deliver on expanded range of diagnostic offerings and accelerate profitable growth in the years ahead.
I'll now discuss three immediate growth opportunities.
First we will use our unique combination of assets and data to deliver faster clinical trial enrollment.
Patient recruitment is an inefficient process combining LabCorp’s database of more than 70 million unique patient records with Covance’s investigator database and analytic capabilities positions us to deliver faster higher quality clinical trials significantly reduce clinical trial cycle time eliminate nonviable sites which can significantly delay recruitment reduce costs and ultimately enable our Biopharma clients to reach peak revenue for their new products faster.
Second we will become the partner of choice to develop and commercialize companion diagnostics.
There are over 100 companion diagnostics on the market today versus 13 in 2006.
More than 20% of 2014 drug approvals were personalized medicines and there are dozens of drugs in Phase 3 development that will require companion diagnostics.
Combining Covance’s strength in central lab and early development with LabCorp’s strength in assay development and test commercialization will create the only company in the world that can offer comprehensive end-to-end support for companion diagnostics development.
Third we will enhance the Phase IV trial experience and post-market surveillance.
Approximately 30% of Phase IV patients drop out due to inconvenient trial procedures and a limited number of trials sites.
LabCorp’s 750 patient service centers approximately 5 000 phlebotomist and physician offices and convenient patient web portal for scheduling can improve the Phase IV patient experience.
LabCorp’s infrastructure will serve another important function allowing the combined organization to collect post-approval safety data on new drugs.
More than 25 approved drugs have been withdrawn from the market in recent years the vast majority due to toxicity.
Our combined analytics capabilities will give us the potential to identify early safety signals avoid extensive recalls and find genotypic characteristics of patients who experience adverse drug reactions so that the drug can be given to patients for whom it is safe.
How our organizations will also be able to use these capabilities to assist Biopharma companies through post-market studies in understanding how drugs are being used by physicians and identifying new locations where those new indications where those drugs show efficacy.
We expect these three opportunities to generate over $300 million in incremental revenue by 2018.
In addition we see exciting opportunities to expand our Food Safety and Nutritional Chemistry Services and longer term to grow through international expansion and predictive analytics for providers and payers.
We are off to a strong start as evidenced by a biotech client that recently awarded a sizeable clinical study to Covance.
This award was based in part on the potential of deploying LabCorp testing data to identify patients with rare genetic mutations speeding enrollment in the clinical trial for its personalized oncology drug.
There are number of new opportunities where LabCorp testing data is being used to support a Covance bid and we expect our patient data and connectivity to continue to enhance and further differentiate Covance’s drug development capabilities.
Before we -- I turn the call over to Glenn; I want to express my appreciation to LabCorp’s 36 000 employees for delivering an outstanding year in 2014 despite difficult circumstances.
Our senior leadership team including our operational leadership our sales and service team our phlebotomist our couriers and our technical staff are the best in our industry and it is a privilege to lead them.
I thank each of you for your hard work your dedication to patient care and your performance in 2014 and every year.
I also want to welcome Covance’s 12 500 talented employees to our Company as I know they will join with the LabCorp team in making important contributions to our future successes.
This is an exciting time to be at LabCorp and I'm confident that our team will enhance drug development diagnostic services and the delivery of healthcare to better address the need to improve patient outcomes at lower costs.
Now I'll turn the call over to Glenn.
Thank you Dave.
I'm going to start my comments with a review of our fourth quarter results and 2015 guidance followed by an update on our Covance acquisition and Project LaunchPad initiative.
Sales for the quarter were approximately $1.5 billion an increase of 5.3% over last year.
The increase in sales was the result of volume measured by requisitions and acquisitions partially offset by price mix and currency.
The growth in sales was due to organic volume of 5.3% partially offset by a decline in revenue for requisitions of 1.1% and negative impact of currency of 0.5%.
In addition acquisitions added 1.6% to sales.
Total volume including acquisitions increased 6.4%.
The decline in revenue per acquisition was primarily due to core support testing growth outpacing esoteric testing growth and less revenue generated from uninsured patients.
Gross profit for the quarter was $546 million or 36.1% of sales.
This compares to gross profit of $526 million or 36.6% of sales last year.
The increase in gross profit dollars was due to volume productivity and acquisitions partially offset by price mix cost inflation and depreciation.
The decline in gross margin was primarily due to the changes in test and payer mix that I mentioned earlier.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was $310 million or 20.5% of sales compared to $286 million or 19.9% last year.
During the quarter we incurred $13 million of special charges in SG&amp;A relating to Project LaunchPad and the Company’s acquisition of Covance.
The remainder of the increase was primarily due to personnel costs acquisitions and an increase in bad debt expense.
While bad debt increased due to sales growth the rate improved 10 basis points over the fourth quarter of 2013.
We expect this rate to be lower in 2015.
During the quarter we had $2 million of restructuring and special items compared to $4 million last year.
The decrease was primarily due to reduced severance costs partially offset by an increase in facility related costs.
Operating income for the quarter was $219 million or 14.5% of sales compared to $215 million or 15% of sales last year.
Excluding restructuring and special items of $16 million adjusted operating income was $235 million or 15.5% of sales compared to $219 million or 15.2% of sales last year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $32 million compared to $24 million last year.
The increase was primarily driven by Covance related financing costs of approximately $6 million.
The tax rate for the quarter was 36.1% compared to 34.8% last year.
The increase in the tax rate over last year was the result of benefits related to discrete items realized in the fourth quarter of 2013.
As a result net earnings for the quarter were $120 million or $1.39 per diluted share compared to $126 million or $1.43 per diluted share last year.
Excluding amortization restructuring and other special items adjusted EPS was $1.65 in the fourth quarter up from $1.61 in the fourth quarter of 2013.
During the quarter operating cash flow was $214 million compared to $249 million last year as we used working capital to support strong top line growth and incurred cash costs relating to Project LaunchPad and the Covance acquisition.
Capital expenditures totaled $46 million compared to $60 million last year.
As a result free cash flow or operating cash flow after capital expenditures was $167 million compared to $189 million last year.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased $39 million of our stock bringing our 2014 total share repurchases to $269 million.
With the November 3rd announcement of the Covance acquisition we suspended our share repurchase program until we reach our targeted leverage.
Now I’ll cover our guidance for 2015.
Total revenue was expected to grow 40% to 44% inclusive of Covance as of February 19 and after adjusting for approximately 160 basis points of negative currency impact as we’ve assumed that foreign exchange rate stay at January 31 2015 levels.
Our LabCorp Diagnostic business is expected to grow 3% to 5%.
Covance’s revenue is expected to increase approximately 4% to 6% versus full-year 2014 after adjusting for approximately 330 basis points of negative currency impact.
Given our expected top line growth Project LaunchPad initiative and the acquisition of Covance our 2015 adjusted EPS guidance is $7.35 to $7.70 an increase of 8% to 13% versus the prior year.
Included in this estimate is expected accretion from Covance of approximately $0.35 to $0.40.
We expect to have approximately 102 million weighted average shares outstanding in 2015 after issuing 15.3 million shares for the Covance acquisition.
In 2015 we expect the Company’s interest and amortization expense to be approximately $220 million and $165 million respectively.
In addition we expect the Company’s tax rate to be approximately 35%.
2015 operating cash flow was expected to be between $1.075 billion and $1.1 billion with capital expenditures between $325 million and $350 million.
As a result free cash flow is expected to be between $725 million and $775 million up from $536 million in 2014.
The increased free cash flow reflects higher earnings the Covance acquisition and improved working capital.
In addition free cash flow is burdened by approximately $90 million of net nonrecurring items relating to the Covance acquisition.
These items include advisory fees the make whole payment on Covance’s notes and changing control payments partially offset by paying only one of the semiannual interest payments on the acquisition debt in 2015.
Now I'll talk about the Covance acquisition.
The transaction allows us to bring decades of experience in lab operations and efficiency to Covance’s global central laboratory network while unlocking greater economic value from our patient database customer relationships and commercial infrastructure.
The combination also creates new sources of revenue and earnings and expands our customer base and international presence.
This acquisition provides us with both near-term and long-term strategic and financial benefits.
At closing we paid approximately $5.7 billion for Covance net of cash required.
To finance the acquisition we raised $3.9 billion in long-term debt and issued 15.3 million shares of LabCorp common stock to Covance shareholders.
We recently issued $3.9 billion of acquisition related debt at a blended interest rate of approximately 3.2% with a weighted average maturity of approximately 12 years.
These attractive terms reflects strong demand for LabCorp credit as well as a favorable interest rate environment.
We remain committed to maintaining an investment grade balance sheet.
Both S&amp;P and Moody's have rated our debt as investment grade at BBB and BAA2 respectively.
We have temporarily suspended our share repurchase program until we reach our targeted leverage of 2.5 times debt to EBITDA and expect to allocate our free cash flow towards the pay down of debt and tuck-in acquisition.
The integration of Covance is also well underway.
We created numerous functional and business unit teams to foster cross company communication and to facilitate a smooth integration process.
We expect to achieve net cost synergies in excess of a $100 million within three years primarily through central lab consolidation elimination of redundant public company costs and procurement savings with associated one-time costs to achieve these synergies of approximately $50 million.
Net cost synergies in 2015 are expected to be approximately $35 million with associated one-time costs of approximately $20 million.
I’m going to end my comments on our Project LaunchPad initiative.
As Dave discussed LaunchPad is designed to reengineer our systems and processes improve productivity and deliver sustained margin improvement over time.
Project LaunchPad savings will favorably impact both gross profit and SG&amp;A through improved customer to cash processes bad debt reduction outsourcing procurement savings and labor efficiency.
We expect this initiative to drive a net savings in excess of $150 million over the next three years with associated one-time cost of approximately $30 million.
In 2015 we expect net savings of approximately $50 million with associated one-time cost of approximately $15 million.
This ends our formal remarks and now I’ll turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Glenn.
I want to announce that after five years of leading LabCorp Investor Relations Steve Anderson will transition after this call to an operational role in our Food Safety business one of the areas where we see great opportunity.
Steve has been a terrific IR leader and has worked tirelessly to meet the needs of our analysts and shareholders.
I will miss him greatly in this role but I know he is moving into an area for which he has great and enduring passion.
Paul Surdez who has led Covance’s Investor Relations program since 2002 will serve as Vice President of Investor Relations for LabCorp.
I greatly look forward to working with Paul who is already recognized as one of the top IR leaders in healthcare services.
Now we’re ready to take questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby representing Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Hi Dave.
I guess Steve Anderson and food safety doesn’t really jive with his biscuit bill focus but I defer to you on that decision.
But you’ve mentioned substantial savings from the Project LaunchPad initiatives.
Can you speak to any -- there seemed to be a reference to the bad debt coming down but what are the working capital opportunities? Can we see receivable balances shrink meaningfully there? And any kind of CapEx savings we might expect over the next few years to add to whatever you’re doing from an income statement perspective? Yes.
Bob good morning.
From a CapEx perspective the focus of the LaunchPad initiatives will largely be around improving our systems and operations through technological investments.
So although I wouldn't expect to see extraordinary CapEx investments I would expect to see transitioning some of our ongoing infrastructure CapEx into a more streamlined and efficient processes and systems over time.
And some of that will also be reflected as I mentioned in labor efficiency.
I’d like Glenn to take the working capital part of the question.
Sure.
To your point working capital has been call it a use of cash for us but primarily due to the strong growth that we have experienced in the Company.
When you reference kind of our receivables on the absolute level we actually feel we’ve been managing it quite well.
It stayed at roughly 49 days overall.
Having said that a big part of LaunchPad initiative is our working capital improvement inclusive of a bad debt but effectively we're looking at really a redesign.
So we are going to step back and look at what processes can we put in place that would be preferred and then as Dave said the put systems to enable that to happen is opposed to just kind of a marginal improvement in that.
So from our perspective we expect to see improved working capital management.
We expect to see also a reduction in our bad debt expense in particularly our bad debt rate which we saw some favorable movement already but we expect to see much greater improvement as we go through the rest of 2015.
But Glenn you quantified the savings though -- from an income statement can you quantify any potential free cash flow run rate that we might benefit from or its just too early to put a number around the CapEx and working capital opportunity? Well again we wouldn’t necessarily do it as part of those programs its part of -- it’s embedded in the overall result or the guidance that we’ve given.
So when you look at our cash flow number for 2015 when you take the midpoint of the guidance we’re looking at as a combined company of around $750 million and we talked about the fact that that’s already been burdened by around $90 million of one-time costs.
So you can see the strong improvement in our free cash flow is in part due to the synergies of the acquisition in part due to the improvement in working capital because of LaunchPad and because of the improved reduction in bad debt expense relating to that LaunchPad initiative as well.
So that’s all encompassed in that number.
And Bob it’s Dave.
I would just also say over time what we like to see is the investments that we make in systems now allowing us to reduce CapEx in the out years.
So I do expect some positive benefit to the overall level of CapEx as a result of LaunchPad.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Bonello representing Craig-Hallum.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning guys.
Just two quick questions.
One is just a simple numbers question.
You talked about currency reducing revenue by about a 160 basis points in 2015.
How should we think about the hit to EPS? Obviously reflected in the guidance that we have as well.
The biggest hit -- currency headwinds if you will obviously with Covance having over half of their business overseas that's where we see it.
And so when we provided the guidance range of Covance kind of year-over-year as if we would have them for both years you can see it was around 3.3 points.
So that would get you to call it in the mid $70 million if you will of headwind on sales.
Historically Covance is leveraged at around -- call it around a 20% degradational to their mark -- to their earnings.
So again as part of LabCorp that translates to around call it 1.5% of headwind on the top line and again if you use that roughly 20% margin degradation you would probably get a good proxy for the earnings impact which again is reflected in the guidance that we provided.
Okay perfect.
Great.
And then just on the recent contract that you talked about being awarded and Covance talked about this as well.
Dave I’m wondering if you can just give us a little bit more color about sort of the process.
So you mentioned that you are going to use lab data to identify patients but maybe you could just elaborate a little bit on how does that actually play out and how beneficial that can be? Because I think it's an area where there is still some skepticism about how that really can drive improvement in patient recruitment? Okay.
So I'm going to -- I'll start and then I’m going to ask Joe to comment as well.
In this specific case the Biopharma client was looking for a very specific -- a set of patients with a very specific characteristic to test a personalized oncology drug in their trial.
We went into our data of the testing that we had done I believe over the last couple of years and looked at the number of patients that we had seen that met those very specific criteria and we showed the client that this is a built-in recruitment set where we know who these patients are and we know where they are.
And I want to be clear Bill that that was part of the client's decision.
The Covance team had positioned us to be in great shape.
At the final stages I think it was down to two CROs that they were considering.
So this was part of the calculation.
It was not a last minute Hail Mary pass into the end zone that brought us back from the brink of not being involved.
We were very well positioned.
This was incrementally something that was considered to be a value.
How we would then execute this is for those patients who we have a direct relationship with who have consented to be re-contacted for whatever reason we would be able to re-contact them.
For those patients who have not consented to be re-contacted or who we don't have a direct relationship with we would go to the physician indicate to the physician that they have X number of patients who they are treating who would be eligible for this very important study and leave it to the physician to recruit the patients or to seek the patients whether the patients are interested in being recruited.
So that's kind of how it works in practice.
Joe further comments? Well I think Dave has done a pretty good job describing that.
I was actually met with the CEO of this client during the JP Morgan conference and as Dave said this is a highly specialized personalized medicine drug in non-small cell lung cancer and the CEO was very concerned about finding patients for the study.
And we have talked about the historic sort of Covance approach to this and he seems pretty comfortable but a competitor have an equally compelling sort of an offer.
But when he understood the generic -- genetic marker he was looking for we said let us see if we can look into the LabCorp database and give you an idea how to find the patients for this study and we’re looking for about little over a 100 patients and he said this trial has to be recruited.
He said we are going to make a decision next week and I’d be happy to hear what you say about the LabCorp data.
I had our Chief Medical Officer with us he worked with LabCorp and 12 hours later we assured the client and said there are over a 1 000 patients in the LabCorp database that fit the inclusion exclusion and genetic marker for this study.
And they call the next day and awarded a $45 million study.
I would say there was less than -- roughly 50-50 percent chance we were going to win and a week later to get it that next morning was pretty awesome.
And we have about five other clients right now that we are working with on a similar basis.
So I guess as of today we are one for one utilizing the combination of LabCorp data and Covance clinical talents.
That was as good of an explanation as I could have possibly hoped for.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill representing JP Morgan.
Please proceed.
Congrats and good morning.
Steve I really enjoyed working with you and I appreciate all your help over the last few years.
So my question really is first Dave when you talked about these unique opportunities in the $300 million revenue opportunity by 2018 and clearly Joe just talked about this most recent one at $45 million.
Can you maybe give us an indication of how you expect that $300 million over the next couple of years? Are you expecting anything in 2015? Well Lisa good morning and thanks for the nice comments about Steve and obviously I know many analysts and shareholders have enjoyed working with him.
I have enjoyed working with him and the team as well.
He is not disappearing he is just going over to Food Safety and we’re thrilled to have Paul to step in.
And I think you will really enjoy working with Paul.
So with that said what we anticipate for 2015 is built into the guidance and as you know we don't break the guidance out into specific parts and pieces.
I would expect this to be as Joe said we are one for one.
We are going to have to prove the case that not only can we marshal the data but then it actually increases the speed of recruiting -- of patient recruitment.
So I would expect this to start relatively slowly and then if we are right we would expect it to build in 2016 and 2017 and come out at 2018 as we’ve identified $300 million as the target for all three of the initiatives combined.
But I think that that the opportunity there is real and if we prove the case it’s significant.
And then my second question is really around your core lab business and the guidance that you gave for next year talking about this year the offsets was price mix currency et cetera.
But as we think about 2015 can you maybe just talk about what you're seeing right now from reimbursement environment especially in the commercial market? Do you have anything that was of size [ph] that was up for renewal and generally speaking what are you seeing from a reimbursement perspective? I would say Lisa in terms of year-over-year reimbursement what we are assuming in the guidance is that MoPath remains about the same that we have some incremental opportunity with BRCA particularly.
I think everybody knows that the uncertainty now is around reimbursement for the clinical toxicology so the Palmetto limited coverage decision which has been delayed until April but it's still I would -- I think it's fair to say being vigorously debated between the lab industry and the payer community and then how that will ripple through with managed care combined with the impact of new toxicology codes many of which still have not been loaded into payer system.
So generally the reimbursement environment looks better than it has in the last couple of years but as always we are in a rapidly changing regulatory and reimbursement environment and we need to take that into account and how we think about the business.
And just so that I understand that so should we assume that within the guidance rage there is varying assumptions as to how these things will play out in 2015? Yes the guidance contemplates a wide range of outcomes and we have attempted to incorporate these various potential outcomes into the range that we’ve given.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Lieberman representing Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
Steve thank you for all the help over the years it’s been great working with you.
I guess my first question is around the LaunchPad $150 million in savings that equals about 175 basis points of margin expansion.
So would you expect to see that margin expansion or should we consider that there might continue to be some headwinds that would offset at least part of that? Well this is Glenn let me take it first and Dave may want to chime in as well.
When we talk about the initiative we talk about it on a net savings basis.
And while we say that they’re onetime costs if you back that out we’ve looked at the initiative we’ve looked at what it would take to effectively take that kind of cost out of the company net of the cost that we need to support it.
So if you looked at it in isolation obviously that’s a benefit that will occlude to the company.
So as we go forward though our goal is to continue to drive our top line to continue to manage the business to drive operating improvement as we go forward and LaunchPad is clearly one of the initiatives that we have that will help to drive that income and margin improvement.
Gary its Dave just -- I think the only thing I would add to that is we’re very focused on margin improvement.
And LaunchPad is a significant opportunity for us to improve margins over time.
The thing that obviously we cannot predict is going back to Lisa’s question what's the reimbursement environment two years out three years out? And so all of the things being equal yes I would expect LaunchPad to translate to margin improvement but we can't guide to where we are going to be based on factors that we don’t know about yet.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then maybe just update us on the reception of the deal and closing the deal by the Covance employees you characterized it previously to sort of being almost transparent to them and do you still view it that way? Yes I have spent a lot of time with both the Covance executive team and with the employees at town halls and in meetings and then getting to know them and my perception is the reception has been terrific.
People are very enthusiastic.
They seek the opportunity here.
They see the long-term potential for both for our combined company to excel.
And I would say my sense is that’s exactly the same reception on the LabCorp side.
People are very enthusiastic about this deal.
Joe any further color? Yes I would characterize it as overwhelmingly for Covance employees its business as usual certainly in the short-term.
But with very exciting strategic prospects the LabCorp assets made Covance a stronger and more resourceful competitor which makes us a better company.
So if you think about our central lab now all of a sudden we have more than a $100 million in revenue from LabCorp and largely esoteric tests that make our business stronger.
And the combination makes us the most resourceful most capable companion diagnostics company in the health care industry.
And our employees who want to improve patient care see that as a nice opportunity.
For clinical there is no overlap with LabCorp so its business as usual except now you have access to a longitudinal database of $70 million patients and we already talked about that.
In Covance market access where our number one issue is how to keep post -- patients in post marketing studies on study to achieve the results.
The 1 700 centers in the U.S.
for LabCorp will make it much easier for those patients to complete their therapy and complete the study.
For food service this is going to be a disruptive offer and just incredibly exciting and you’ll hear more about that in the future.
And then in early development we pick up a very nice bioanalytical business in terms of tandem and make us a much stronger biomarker development company.
So there is not a lot of overlap so this is not terribly disruptive.
But where there is overlap there is exciting strategic advantage.
And I guess what I would close with is just a comment about Dave.
Dave and I have traveled around the world with Covance have been in front of 1000s of employees in multiple sites as well as small working groups.
And I think I can represent the Covance employees saying that they love to see Dave’s passion around improving patient care and health care.
They are excited to see how comfortable he is in a lab environment.
And finally I think his interpersonal approach has been very well received by Covance employees around the world.
I personally held a town hall meeting yesterday in Princeton with about a 1000 employees and I can tell you the atmosphere was electric.
Great.
A final quick question in the example you gave where you said you could go to the physician and say that they had X number of patients that met their criteria.
Can you actually give the physician the name of the specific patients? I’m going to differ that to legal consideration.
I believe that yes we can because I believe it fits within the hip a [ph] exception for health care treatment.
But obviously before we would do that and by the way this has been done in situations in the past before we would do that we would make sure that we had legal approval to actually provide the patient names.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
I was just going to say the good news in this is as I walked away from this exciting win I keep scratching my head thinking what other organization on the planet can bring this resources? And it’s hard to come up with one and I like our chances.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Cherny representing Evercore ISI.
Please proceed.
Good morning everyone.
Steve first of all good luck in the new role and Paul looking forward to continuing to work together so happy to see that transition.
In terms of thinking about the combination I know this is still early days and then given that the deal just closed yesterday but maybe a question for Joe.
You talked about the employee reaction you talked about the new deal you won which is great to see.
How has been the rest of the customer reaction to this deal? In terms of have you spend time with them over the last few months as you’ve gone through some of the renewal or sale processes obviously Covance delivered very strong 4Q results a good book to bill.
Can you talk a little bit qualitatively about what the pharma sponsors have been telling you guys relative to the power of this deal outside of the one customer that you did win? I guess two words comes to mind the first is intrigued.
This is a combination that dirty people had thought of and initially its where did this come from? But when they think about the combination they start asking us questions.
Can you help us with adherence programs? Can you help us with companion diagnostics? It seems like you guys have very unique assets.
So I think intrigued and I think the second point is comforted.
Because what we can say is there’s not a lot of overlap here.
So you can have the same project manager.
You are going to have the same study director.
It’s going to be the same bill its going to still say Covance.
And so there’s no disruption here.
And if a competitor tries to show up and say boy this is going to be really disruptive.
We pre-trained our clients to say what do mean disruptive? I have got the same study director the same sales person the same everything.
And frankly they’ve got some pretty exciting new things to talk about.
So I like our chances.
Thanks Joe.
And then one quick question I guess for Glenn and maybe Dave as well.
When you first announced the deal I think you had talked about the capital deployment.
Obviously your focus has been debt pay down but that wouldn’t stop you or preclude you in any way from doing any small tuck-ins that may come across that are a nice fit to either side of the business.
Is that correct? I just want to make sure I understand the capital deployment priorities.
Yes Michael it’s Dave.
I agree as I think we indicated a couple of places in our prepared remarks we intend to deploy our capital towards pay down of debt and tuck-in acquisitions.
So you’re exactly right.
Probably I missed the tuck-in thing so thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor representing Citi.
Please proceed.
I would go to the one question right before I get to go I see … You got one follow-up.
Okay I’ll stretch for the follow-up.
I do have a follow-up that’s related.
I just want to walk through -- kind of walk through the guidance and get your response to something just see something about it correctly.
So basically the cash earnings guidance $735 million to $770 million Covance accretion is $0.35 to $0.40 that gets you to kind of $7 or $7.30.
LaunchPad is supposed to be 50 million bucks that’s about $0.30.
So it kind of put the core lab business to kind of $6.70 to $7 versus $6.80 this year.
Obviously there is no share repurchase included in that.
So it feels relatively flattish for the core lab business but obviously volumes -- organic volume and revenue has picked up.
And as you said you’re lapping some of the largest Medicare reimbursement cut.
So am I thinking about that correctly and if so why such a conservative take kind of on the core earnings power in the lab business? Yes Gary this is Glenn; let me at least start off to your point.
When you back out the mid points of the accretion that we expect to get from Covance you kind of get to that 7.15’ish number for what would have been our base business compared to $6.80.
So kind of growing at around 5% kind of consistent with what we said kind of the top line growth.
So from our perspective as we go into ’15 with our base business we are looking at good top line growth organically.
We are looking at an improvement in operating income.
We are looking at an improvement in our operating margins.
And again to your point we’re driving that 15% or a 5% EPS growth which again is faster growth than just the top line without any capital redeployment.
So the significant amount of free cash flow that we have that would normally have gone into our share repurchases obviously have gone into the acquisition of Covance that’s adding that call it 35% to 40% of accretion.
So from our perspective LaunchPad is an integral part just of the ongoing continuous improvement initiative of our business but it should be viewed as part of our base business and we think actually the improvement in our profitability as well as the improvement in our cash flow in ’15 on the base business is quite strong.
Now that’s fair.
I understand its part of the base business but it is new and fairly material and highlighted and a very material portion of the growth in the lab business year-over-year … Yes Garry it’s Dave.
I think the other thing to mention and I just want to be clear we’re not going to break down every bit and piece of the guidance because there are many many moving pieces.
We talked about currency earlier.
But also remember that within the $6.80 this year we had $0.11 onetime gain from the share the sale of some shares of a company that we owned.
So there are many many things that are incorporate into the number that we turned in and the guidance that we produced.
And I just -- I want to be cautious about trying to back out every piece of it and figure out what's up what's down and what's not changing.
Yes that’s fair.
I just kind of big picture what you think of lab.
My one follow-up would be when you announced the Covance deal you suggested $100 million in cost synergies over three years.
I know you didn’t carve that out today.
But would you be willing to say what's kind of embedded for ’15 in terms of cost synergies? Gary this is Glenn.
We actually did break it out.
We had talked about in excess of $100 million of synergy savings over the three-year period so consistent with what we’ve said when we announced the transaction.
When we have added further is that we expect that the 2015 piece of it would generate around $35 million of net savings while incurring around onetime cost of around $20 million.
And the main components again consistent with what we would have shared at the time of the announcement was a combination of synergies through the lab consolidation through the taking out the redundant public company cost as well as leveraging the purchasing power of the combined company.
Okay.
I’m sorry I missed that.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Amanda Murphy representing William Blair.
Please proceed.
Hey thanks.
Good morning guys.
Just actually a follow-up to Lisa’s question on the revenue synergy numbers that you guys have put together.
Just curious if you can give a little more detail around I know it’s early but the methodology you went through to get to those numbers.
I’m just trying to think through what the risk might be there other than just obviously the ramp and then also you’re not to get greedy but where we might potentially see some upside to those numbers given the greater the ensign [ph] that you had included there? Amanda its Dave.
The methodology was that we went through the three opportunities we looked at what we thought based on historical trends and how we size the opportunities was an appropriate breakdown.
And then we said we think number one is the largest.
We think number two is in the middle and we think number three is the smallest.
And the numbers that approximately around that are 150 150 and you add those together then they are 300.
Obviously we wouldn’t have put the greater sign if we didn’t feel that there was upside to those 300.
But we’ve given a number that we think is very realistic.
We have given a breakdown of how we think those revenue opportunities would materialize and where we think the greater opportunities are.
And we did it all with financial analysis of past results of our company and Covance and market size and market share and opportunities for gain.
So I don’t really know how to break it down in much more detail than that.
But I hope that answers the question.
Yes thank you.
And then just one more here it’s a little more specific I guess but obviously LabCorp has had an increased growth in opportunity and through Next-Gen Sequencing based test et cetera.
Just curious I know that there is some efforts to set some reimbursement there via Medicare.
Have you guys saw through there what the risk might be just obviously given some of the issues with MoPath codes a year-ago or so is there a risk to the reimbursement for Next-Gen? I know it’s early and we’re setting the infrastructure now but just curious of your thoughts there.
I think it’s very early to comment on that.
There are a lot of discussions going on with Medicare with Palmetto specifically about Next-Gen Sequencing and appropriate reimbursement for Next-Gen Sequencing and we’re very much engaged in those discussions as are by the way a lot of other companies that have a significant interest in how Next-Gen Sequencing will be reimbursed.
Next-Gen Sequencing provides revolutionary opportunities to deliver greater knowledge to physicians and patients and to improve patient care.
And it would be a shame if we shortsightedly set reimbursement in such a way that we discourage patients and physicians from using the best tools available to deliver optimal outcomes.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Nicholas Jansen representing Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Please proceed.
Hey guys nice quarter and good guidance.
I just wanted to get your thoughts on the regulatory outlook.
We haven’t heard anything much on kind of the timing of the 2017 regs coming out also with LDT regulation and with the doc segs [ph] upcoming.
I just wanted to get your broader thoughts on the macro from a Medicare perspective.
Thanks.
Back in my legal days I would have objected to that as a three part question one question but I’ll answer it.
Good morning Nicholas.
How you’re doing? It’s Dave.
Okay Palma still very much engaged with CMS on how the surveys will be done.
I think we’ve made some constructive progress with them on thinking about how the surveys will be done.
The inclusion of hospitals in the survey data don’t have any update on the timing of when we might expect that to come out.
I think to their credit CMS is recognized the complexity of the task and is working very hard to try to device a fair process.
Lab Developed Tests we continue to have the same view that we previously articulated that we do not believe that FDA has legal authority to regulate LDTs as medical devices.
We don’t believe they are medical devices.
We think they are extremely important to the practice of medicine and to meeting patient needs and we think that what FDA has proposed would be contrary not only to the public interest in the language of the statute but also to sound public policy.
FDA has had a listening meeting.
I think there were a wide variety of views expressed about the LDT guidance.
And I think it continues to be an area of high interest and high focus for the clinical lab industry.
And it continues to be something that we at LabCorp feel very very strongly about.
So those are the two major regulatory issues that I think we have on the table in front of us and I hope that responds efficiently to your question.
Thank you Dave.
Your next question comes from the line of Whit Mayo representing Robert Baird.
Please proceed.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
I wanted to just go back to the synergy topic for a second and looking at Covance’s filings it looks like they historically had north of $40 million alone in just stock comp expense before thinking about other public company cost and then you’re guiding to only $35 million and I know that not all of the stock comp goes away as you lock down some of the key Covance employees.
So that’s not a bucket where everything goes to zero but nonetheless $35 million sounds a little bit on the conservative side when we look at some of the opportunities out there.
So could you maybe give us a sense of where the majority of the $35 million comes from this year? Sorry Whit this is Glenn.
And I think the key point that you said this year we’re looking at synergy savings on the cost side of around in excess of a $100 as we go through the process and that doesn’t include any of the revenue synergies that Dave and Joe had already spoke to.
When you look at the -- we gave the first year piece of it so and frankly it will probably trend to be call it roughly around a third year as we get over that $100 million number.
But in the current year as you would imagine that the biggest piece of those cost savings will come from the redundant public company cost that we have because we can take that out right away.
We will get some benefit from leveraging of the purchasing power of our combined company as well as with the lab consolidation we’ll get some.
But the later two the purchasing the lab consolidation are benefits that will obviously accrue and take a little bit longer to achieve over the nest couple of years.
So we view that overall the synergies of the combination are good on the cost side the revenue side let alone the expected growth in both of our businesses.
And Whit it’s Dave.
Just to follow-up on that I think you’re right that the stock comp expense is in area that we continue to look at.
Obviously all of the stock comp is not going to go away but there are likely to be some changes in stock comp issuance for this year.
I just want to remind everybody that is a non-cash saving.
So it doesn’t translate into cash flow and it doesn’t translate into cash flow guidance.
But it’s still a savings in terms of overall expense nonetheless.
Is there a number to think about for what the new stock comp expense should be for the entire company? We don’t guide the stock comp expense and so no there’s no number to think about there.
Okay.
Now that’s fair.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Glen Santangelo representing Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Thanks for the question.
Glenn I just want to follow-up on some of the comments you just made earlier about FX because if we look at the top line guidance for Covance you obviously called out specifically how big that was.
But sort of given the many moving parts and geographic locations for Covance could you help us think about the operating profit growth particularly as it relates to any FX headwinds or tailwinds within that number? And obviously there is a piece of the Sanofi deal that’s going away late in the fourth quarter.
So I’m just trying to directionally think about that operating profit growth relative to the revenue number you provided.
Thanks.
Sure Glen.
And again I think we may have already addressed that in an earlier question.
We did give you kind of the top line impact from the currency headwinds and Covance has three principal areas of currency exposure.
Obviously they are in 60 countries but between the Euro zone the Swiss and UK if you will it’s primarily where that exposure comes in.
So we talked about it roughly call it 330 basis points of negative impact give or take that’s in the mid 70s if you will at the revenue line negatively impacting what we believe Covance will see in sales is if the currency level stay at basically the current levels today and we’ve talked about that the impact on operating income at least historically for them would be plus or minus around GP a little bit lower than that.
So we saw 20% is probably a good proxy where you would want to model that.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser representing Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning and Steve congratulations on the new role its really well deserved and Paul congratulations for you as well.
So the question and I’ll have a follow-up as well.
Dave can you just talk to us a little bit about kind of like your -- kind of when you think about kind of like the top line guidance for LabCorp standalone.
How do you think about kind of like the utilization environment in 2015 and kind of like that price to volume makes it that’s embedded in the guidance? I think the utilization environment just based on the numbers that we saw sequentially in 2014 Ricky has improved obviously very pleased with 5% plus top line volume growth in the fourth quarter.
How do we think about price volume next year? I think we think about relatively similar volume numbers maybe to be realistic we obviously had very strong year-over-year performance.
So while we don’t guide specifically to price and volume I would think a reasonable assumption is volume growth stays about where it is and pricing is relatively flat and maybe down a little bit just depending on the fact so we can identify which are core testing in the fourth quarter outpacing esoteric and movement from uninsured -- the uninsured patient bucket into insured or exchange bucket.
So I don’t think next year would look a lot different from this year in summary although there maybe a little bit kind of up and down between volume and price.
Okay.
And I’ll use my follow-up question with a question to Joe.
Joe when you think about the patient recruitment timeline in the new contract that you signed.
How long will it take before you can come back to kind of like your clients and back to us with some proof of concept data points that will show how much time you saved your clients in the enrolment process? Yes well I mean Ricky keep in mind we just closed yesterday and we have to be careful -- have been very careful with things like gun jumping and getting ahead of ourselves.
But as you know clinical trials from the time you went until it starts to ramp up to revenue is 6 to 9 to 12 to as much as 18 months.
So we will be talking about this in the future and giving you an idea of how we’re doing.
But right now it’s largely manual again.
So it will only get too far ahead of ourselves but ultimately we want to make this industrial strength and bring this as sort of an unparallel offering and a differentiator for our business.
So again we’re one for one right now.
We have about -- we have about six more questions in the queue and we have about 10 more minutes.
So let’s try -- and we’re going to try to manage to finish at about 10:15 please.
Your next question comes from the line of AJ.
Rice representing UBS.
Please proceed.
Sure.
Hello everybody.
Maybe I’ll just focus in on this year’s layout of numbers.
I know you don’t guide to the quarters.
But as we think about the normal seasonal pattern can you give us anything we should keep in mind as we lay it out whether its weather in the first quarter or the progression of synergies over the course of the year anything along those lines? AJ its Dave.
Yes weather in the first quarter -- obviously the first quarter from the LabCorp diagnostics perspective tends to be a lower quarter the second and third quarters being stronger.
But we don’t guide quarter-by-quarter and so your best -- your best way you could gain insight into that is to look at prior years and see how the quarters have shaped up.
Okay.
All right.
I just was thinking in terms of I mean because this is a corporate synergy for example do you think you’ll -- that $35 million lays out pretty evenly across the year and you got that pretty much upfront or is there any help on the non-traditional seasonal things that you would give us? Yes this is Glenn AJ.
And I can almost a little bit echo Dave’s comment.
If you look at both companies or the combined company we’re today inclusive -- if you'd expect to see a ramp up in the savings over time.
So it's not going to be necessarily pro rata but when you look at the totality of our revenue when you look at the totality of our earnings you're going to see the same pattern if you will which again is the strength more of a -- more or less in the second and third being stronger than the first and the fourth.
But even so it is again not material but if you want to model that closely obviously you'd go lighter in the first and the fourth and a little heavier in the second and the third to follow historical patterns partially offset maybe by a ramp up in the cost coming in but again that’s I’m going to drive the numbers that much from a magnitude standpoint.
Okay.
And clearly the synergies are going to -- the synergies will accelerate as we go through the year.
We are not going to have a ton on day one but they will accelerate as we get into the later quarters.
All right.
This is Paul.
Just real quick on the Covance side the first quarter does have some seasonality in our early development business so just make a note of that.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of David Clair representing Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for letting me in the queue here.
Just curious Dave you mentioned that core testing actually grew faster than esoteric.
Just kind of curious what the -- why that happened in the quarter? Well it's a little bit of tough question why it happened but … Well yes but what slowdown in esoteric I guess? Well nothing has slowdown in esoteric.
Core testing outpaced esoteric is what we’ve said.
So esoteric grew consistent with the overall growth of the business core testing grew faster than the growth of the business and there are probably many thesis about why that happened but we have people coming in through the exchanges we have people coming in through Medicaid we have patients who are previously been uninsured having coverage.
The likelihood is that there are initial encounters with physicians and with being covered lives that they're going to run a hepatic panel or lipid profile and things that we characterize as being in the core as opposed to being in esoteric.
So that would be my best assessment of why the core grew faster but again I don't want to leave the implication that the esoteric didn’t grow.
The esoteric grew nicely the core just outgrew it.
Okay thanks.
And just a real quick follow-up in terms of Covance.
It sounds like the feedback from the existing customers is pretty solid there but is there anything baked in the guidance in terms of customer attrition? The guidance incorporates a wide range of outcomes and so you can assume that we have thought about that and incorporated into our thinking.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro representing Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Thanks.
On the guidance for Covance I think you called for 46% growth this year and if I wind back the clock to when the deal was announced we talked about I think longer-term growth in that 7% to 8% range.
I just want to kind of get a sense of what you guys think it will take for that sort of acceleration to happen? Is there a sort of a timeframe here that you think over several years or could it be something that sort of hockey sticks into the year two year three post the deal? Trying to get a sense of how you look at accelerating growth? Thank you.
Isaac its Dave.
46% burdened by 330 basis points of negative currency which if I add 3.3 to 4 I get 7.3 to 9.3.
So it's exactly what we said at the time that we did the deal in terms of the growth perspective and we think that opportunity is there for the long-term.
Okay.
And then in terms of pricing for this year across the Company could you maybe give us a sense given your context on the core business for lab the total? No as we said before we guide to revenue we don't guide to volume or price.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich representing Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody and congrats to Steve.
I may actually go back to eating chicken now.
My question is for Dave and it just relates to ACA and I just wanted to get a quick thought from you Dave about how you think reform impacted 2014 and then as you think about the 2015 outlook is reform a tailwind is it neutral? Can you just give us an updated thought or two there? I think the impact Darren from -- for ’14 was it helped volume and if I think back to what we said when we initially gave guidance it helped volume by more than we thought it was going to.
It was a drag on price both because of the things that we mentioned the core testing growing faster than the esoteric the patients moving from uninsured into covered categories and [technical difficulty] exchanges and the growth which you saw in the first half of managed Medicaid.
So net-net positive for volume slightly negative for price.
2015 I saw the statistics that there has been some growth in enrollment and re-enrollment for health plans.
I don't think there is anything that is going to be material in there.
There are some states s that are talking about Medicaid expansion that hadn’t expanded Medicaid previously that would likely be net positive to volume and negative to price for the reasons that we’ve spoken about.
There is obviously some overhang with the Supreme Court taking up the King versus Burwell case that if that were decided adversely to the government position there would be significant impact on patients receiving subsidies and we would hope that there would be a constructive political response to that as opposed to sort of chaos for people who had insurance one day and don't have at the next.
But that at a high level it's probably how we think about the ACA for ’14 and ’15.
Okay.
But just to be clear I can hear what you are saying volume and price was it more or less a push on EBIT? Is that what you're trying to say? No I think it was probably slightly positive.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Brokmeier representing Maxim Group.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
To follow-up on Gary's question from quite a while ago on the core business you generally drive efficiency improvements and take costs out of the LabCorp business and that’s you’ve normally included in your guidance.
Are there other margin expansion opportunities included with -- in the guidance or should we think of those as being lumped in with the LaunchPad though a much smaller piece in that $0.30? Yes this is -- Bryan Glenn.
To make sure I understand your question first of all we will agree that the normal course of operations as we have continuous improvement so we are always looking at leveraging and managing our cost structure.
When we talk about LaunchPad you have to think about it a little bit more than that.
It's just not kind of the annual improvement to drive cost out and the leverage but how can we reengineer processes and deploy systems to enable that to happen where you can't do that on the margin.
So as we think about taking out around a $150 million plus of cost over the next three years we have the impact of $50 million arguably would be greater than what would have been the normal reductions in our cost focus in a particular one-year period so we’re getting the additional benefit of it.
But part of what we’re doing is would be also considered the normal course than more structural changes in what we do obviously will accrue as we go to the out years.
But we are looking at taking costs out we are looking at improving our bad debt experience collections getting paid for tests that we are performing that we might not have been in the past and then the more traditional thing such as outsourcing labor efficiency so it's all packed in there but that’s why you see probably a greater impact in ’15 than in the normal ordinary course of just our continuous improvement.
And Bryan it’s Dave.
I think if I understood the question it is -- it was are there other margin opportunities that are outside -- margin improvement opportunities that are outside the guidance mean the guidance contemplates the operation of the business similar to the way the business operated last year.
We had significant growth in esoteric over and above the growth in core obviously that’s a margin improvement opportunity.
So that's why we give a range of guidance is that there are many things embedded in it that can move one way or another.
Right.
My question was just on the -- when the question was about the core business being flat I was looking at as if more it's not flat though margin expansion opportunities that normally we see every year are what included in that $0.30? Yes that actually -- again as we think through the $50 million of savings in the first year that’s correct.
We are looking at the total program some initiatives would have been done without calling it LaunchPad but that is part of our what we are calling a LaunchPad is our -- call it improvement initiative.
But the bigger part of it is that as you think through the three-year total you start to see more of a structural changes but it's all-inclusive.
And we don't agree that the core business is flat.
I don't think that's an accurate characterization.
Okay great.
Thanks.
The next question comes from the line of Brian Tanquilut representing Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning guys.
I promise I will just do one question.
So Dave did volume performance 5% organic so if you don’t mind just giving us your views right on the market share dynamics and how the hospital market share shift is playing out and what your strategy is and what you guys are doing for that as you look at to the next three to five years? I don’t spend a lot of time talking about market share.
I think it's a hard thing to characterize.
Our operational team has performed exceptionally well in terms of generating organic volume growth whether that's through contract wins whether that's through sales whether that's through service improvements every day I get e-mails from customers letters from customers about how LabCorp people go above and beyond to do the things that need to be done to serve the customers and for patient care.
That’s we’re going to continue to focus on as part of what LaunchPad is about is we do a great job today but there are things that we can do better for the patients for the physicians for the payer so look I think we’re doing a great job operationally.
I'm very proud of what we've done operationally and we are going to continue to execute on the operational opportunities that are ahead of us.
All right.
Thanks.
Thank you.
With no further questions at this time I’d now like to turn the call back to Dave King for any closing remarks.
End of Q&amp;A Thank you.
In closing I'd like to say we appreciate your time and your questions this morning and your interest.
And just would sum up by saying as we’ve said many times the healthcare system is demanding better outcomes at lower costs and we’re now the world’s leading healthcare diagnostics company and we have unmatched capabilities to serve every stakeholder in the healthcare system.
We have a unique and complete set of tool to deliver what the system needs.
It’s an exciting time for LabCorp and we look forward to updating you on our progress as we carryout our key 2015 priorities.
Thank you and good day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2015 Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Latoya and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
However to maximize time please limit your questions to one and one follow-up.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Paul Surdez Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Good morning and welcome to LabCorp's first quarter 2015 conference call.
With me today are Dave King Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Glenn Eisenberg Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Jay Boyle Chief Executive Officer of LabCorp Diagnostics and Joe Herring Chief Executive Officer of Covance Drug Development.
Before we get started I would like to point out that there will be a replay of this conference call available via telephone and Internet.
Please refer to today's press release for replay information.
This morning in addition to our press release we filed a Form 8-K that included additional information on our business and operations both of which are available on our Web site at www.labcorp.com.
Please refer to today's press release for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call to GAAP.
These non-GAAP measures include adjusted EPS free cash flow and adjusted operating income.
Finally we are making forward-looking statements during this conference call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results the implementation of our business strategy and the ongoing benefits from acquisitions.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect our financial results.
Some of these factors are set-forth in detail in our 2014 10-K and in our subsequent filings with the SEC.
We have no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dave King.
Thank you Paul.
When we announced the acquisition of Covance we said that the timing was excellent because the lab business was showing strength after a couple of very challenging years from a regulatory and reimbursement perspective.
The acquisition would provide us with new opportunities in an industry that is closely adjacent to ours and the combined capabilities of our businesses would provide exciting new opportunities for long-term revenue and profit growth.
Our operating performance in the first quarter in my judgment demonstrates the wisdom of our decision to make this transformational move.
First LabCorp Diagnostics delivered an exceptional quarter.
Pro forma net revenue increased 4.9% over last year to 1.5 billion despite 30 million lost due to weather during the quarter.
Organic volume was a very strong 5.2%.
Pricing was relatively stable with revenue per requisition declining a modest 60 basis points mostly attributable to mix.
LabCorp Diagnostic's s strong revenue growth leveraged its operating income growth.
Pro forma adjusted operating income now excluding amortization increased 150 basis points over the first quarter of 2014 to 20.2% of net revenue or 18.9% including amortization.
The business benefited from excellent expense control and improvement in productivity driven largely by Project LaunchPad which includes a number of projects that target procurement bad debt service delivery at our patient service centers and revenue cycle management to improve the experience of everyone involved in our clinical diagnostics value chain.
LaunchPad is progressing well and we are on-track to deliver 50 million of net savings in 2015.
Second the Covance project development segment reported strong full quarter net orders of $855 million generating a very impressive book-to-bill ratio of 1.37.
Revenue growth for the full quarter on a constant currency basis increased 2.2% over last year with strong performance from the early development business partially offset by unfavorable mix in central labs.
Although our growth rate was more than expected we achieved record orders for the quarter positioning us for improved revenue performance overtime.
In addition Covance drug development is on-track to deliver cost synergies in 2015 of approximately 35 million.
Third we continue to see examples of clients coming to LabCorp for the power of our combined businesses.
As a reminder we expect to drive more than $300 million in incremental annual revenue by 2018 through accelerated clinical trial enrollment end-to-end capabilities and companion diagnostics and combined infrastructure that will improve real world trials.
Client continue to express interest in the utility of our unique patient data to deliver fast and efficient patient enrollment as well as enhanced study and feasibility plans.
We have a specific example of the power of our data to help win a clinical study on our fourth quarter call.
Since then we've had several examples of using LabCorp data to assist us in winning business.
One example I would like to highlight is a request for proposal from a biotechnology company to conduct a late-stage trial with an experimental antibiotic in patients with serious life threatening staph infections including MRSA.
These infections are increasingly resistant to establish treatments.
If successful the results would be submitted to the U.S.
FDA for accelerated approval of the antibiotic under new guidelines designed to strengthen the countries stockpile of affective antibiotic and anti-microbial agents.
Using our combined data set we were able to generate a geographic heat map that visually depicted where we had a match to the trial criteria.
The client awarded the project to Covance and the trial would be enrolling for the next 18 months.
The data will be used to target known areas with an increased prevalence of the underlying infection which can go a long way in speeding study start-up one of the most time intensive aspects of running a clinical trial.
If the study is successful Covance and LabCorp will have helped a client get a new treatment against deadly infections to doctors and patients sooner meeting an important medical need and vividly demonstrating how only months after the merger we are already capitalizing on the promise of our combined company.
Furthermore several customers of LabCorp’s legacy bio-analytical laboratory Tandem recently awarded multiple components of early R&amp;D projects to us rather than their past practice of using CROs for bio-analytical toxicology and other chemistry services.
The broader more comprehensive platform that we have as a result of the acquisition provides our customers a one-stop-shop in their efforts to improve efficiency and reduce the cost of drug development.
These are examples of the opportunities for revenue and profit growth that we are uniquely positioned to deliver as the world's leading healthcare diagnostics company.
I would now like to provide an update on recent regulatory and reimbursement developments.
First the passage of the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 removes the overhang for potential payment reductions that have been implemented in prior years to pay for the legislated decision to suspend the impact of the sustainable growth rate adjustment to the physician fee schedule also known as the doc fix.
This is a positive development for the clinical laboratory industry and we commend congress and the administration for a constructive solution to a problem that has vexed the Medicare system and those of us who provide care for the Nation’s elderly patients for many years.
Second we await CMS’ preliminary rule on its methodology underlying the market-wide survey proposed in the PAMA legislation.
The congressional attempt was clear that this analysis should encompass independent and hospital laboratories to appropriately determine market rates.
We have met on multiple occasions with CMS to discuss a practical approach to gathering the survey data and we appreciate CMS’ thoughtful consideration of this extremely complex task.
Third we continue to express our disagreement with FDA’s draft guidance on laboratory developed tests.
This unnecessary regulatory burden will increase costs and slow innovation in laboratory medicine and will be terribly harmful to patient care.
As always we are engaged in dialogue with CMS the FDA members of congress ACLA and other stakeholders on all of these matters.
Our goal is to protect patient interests secure reimbursement of medically necessary tests and enable innovation in laboratory medicine.
Finally I'm pleased to update you on our progress in expanding our capabilities to change the way care is delivered.
We are doing this through the development and commercialization of technology-enabled solutions and we now have two services in play.
The BeaconLBS team achieved its goal of full implementation earlier this month.
BeaconLBS’ technology-enabled solutions are modernizing healthcare by conveniently incorporating laboratory decision support into provider workflow and we will continue to enhance LBS overtime to provide broader physician decision support as well as timely feedback to physicians about their test ordering patterns and patient compliance with the tests they have ordered.
This innovation promotes the use of the appropriate test for the appropriate patient at the appropriate time to enhance care and improve outcomes.
I want to commend the entire BeaconLBS team on their unstinting efforts to introduce this innovation into clinical practice.
Enlighten Health is expanding by combining our informatics and analytics capabilities to support our revenue growth opportunities.
Enlighten Health is the second cornerstone of our strategy to create technology-enabled solutions for our customers which will add to our extensive suite of services in both clinical diagnostics and drug development.
We are enthusiastic about the opportunities that lie ahead for both of these businesses.
This is an exciting time for our company and our 48 000 employees around the world.
I deeply appreciate their hard work in growing the business executing flawlessly through the closing of the Covance acquisition and fulfilling our mission of improving lives and improving health.
We remain confident in the long-term opportunities for our company and expect to continue to deliver profitable growth and create value for shareholders for many years to come.
Now I'll turn the call over to Glenn.
Thank you Dave.
I'm going to start my comments with the review of our consolidated first quarter results followed by a discussion of our LabCorp Diagnostics and Covance drug development segments and conclude with an update on our 2015 guidance.
The following consolidated results include Covance as of February 19 2015.
Revenue for the quarter was $1.8 billion an increase of 24% over last year.
The acquisition of Covance contributed 267 million from the date of closing driving 19% year-over-year revenue growth with the other 5% primarily due to strong organic volume across both core and esoteric testing.
Gross profit for the quarter was $596 million or 33.6% of revenue.
This compares to 517 million or 36.1% last year.
Excluding $33 million of one-time acquisition-related costs gross profit was $629 million or 35.5% of revenue.
The increase in gross profit dollars was due primarily to the acquisition of Covance as well as organic volume and productivity.
Excluding Covance gross margin would have been 36.9% an increase of 80 basis points over last year.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was $415 million or 23.4% of revenue compared to 285 million or 19.9% last year.
Excluding special charges of $87 million related to the acquisition of Covance and Project LaunchPad SG&amp;A in the quarter was $328 million or 18.5% of revenue 140 basis point reduction versus last year.
The increase in SG&amp;A was due primarily to the acquisition of Covance and labor inflation.
The reduction in SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was due to the impact of the Covance acquisition as well as tight expense controls and a reduction in our bad debt rate.
Excluding Covance SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue would have been 19.3% an improvement of 60 basis points over last year.
During the quarter we recorded $139 million of restructuring charges and special items primarily relating to the Covance acquisition.
Amortization expense for the quarter was $31 million up from 21 million a year ago due to the acquisition.
Operating income for the quarter was $130 million or 7.3% of revenue compared to 203 million or 14.2% last year.
Excluding amortization restructuring and special items of $170 million adjusted operating income was 300 million or 16.9% of revenue compared to 232 million or 16.2% last year.
Beginning with this quarter we are excluding amortization from adjusted operating income to be consistent with our calculation of adjusted EPS.
The exclusion of amortization benefited operating income margin in the quarter by 1.8% compared to 1.5% last year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $104 million compared to 26 million last year.
The increase was primarily driven by non-recurring acquisition-related items of $53 million and higher debt balances to fund the acquisition.
The tax rate for the quarter was 96.7% higher than last year's 39.5% rate due to the tax treatment of one-time acquisition-related charges.
Excluding these charges the effective tax rate for the quarter was 35.8%.
The decline in the tax rate from a year ago was driven by the mix impact of Covance which has a greater percentage of its earnings from lower tax rate foreign jurisdictions than our base business.
Net earnings for the quarter were negatively impacted by restructuring and special items of 141 million after tax as a result net earnings for the quarter were $1 million or $0.01 per diluted share compared to 113 million or $1.31 per diluted share last year.
Excluding amortization restructuring and other special items adjusted EPS were $1.73 in the quarter up 15% from $1.51 last year.
During the quarter operating cash flow was negative $87 million compared to $142 million last year as we incurred approximately $154 million of one-time charges relating to the acquisition of Covance excluding these items operating cash flow was $67 million.
The decline in cash flow was due to Covance's seasonal use of cash partially offset by improved earnings and working capital in our base business.
Capital expenditures totaled $34 million compared to 56 million last year as a result free cash flow was negative $121 million compared to 86 million last year excluding acquisition-related nonrecurring items free cash flow for the quarter was $33 million.
At quarter-end our cash balance was $446 million during the quarter we raised $3.9 billion in debt to fund the Covance acquisition at a blended interest rate of approximately 3.2% with a weighted average maturity of approximately 12 years.
Total debt at quarter-end was approximately $6.9 billion.
Our liquidity at the end of the quarter was approximately $1.3 billion consisting of cash in unutilized credit.
We now manage and report as two operating segments LabCorp Diagnostics and Covance Drug Development.
Segment results are presented on a pro forma basis for all periods as of the acquisition of Covance closed on January 1 2014 and exclude amortization restructuring special items and unallocated corporate expenses.
Segment definitions and reconciliations of segment results to historically reported results are included in today's press release and the current report filed today on Form 8-K.
First I'll review the performance of LabCorp Diagnostics.
Pro forma revenue for the quarter was $1.5 billion an increase of 4.9% over last year.
The increase in revenue was the result of volume measured by requisitions and tuck-in acquisitions partially offset by price mix and currency.
The increase in net revenue of 4.9% includes unfavorable foreign currency translation of 0.7% and a decrease in revenue per requisition of 0.6%.
Total volume measured by requisitions increased by 6% of which organic volume was 5.2% and acquisition volume was 0.8%.
LabCorp Diagnostics’ pro forma adjusted operating income for the quarter was $300 million or 20.2% of revenue.
Compared to 265 million or 18.7% of revenue last year including amortization margins would have been 18.9% versus 17.3% last year.
The increase was primarily due to strong volume growth and productivity partially offset by pricing mix.
Improvement in productivity was driven by labor efficiency and our project LaunchPad initiative which delivered approximately $10 million in savings in the quarter.
These benefits included procurement savings bad debt rate reduction and headcount.
We remain on-track to deliver approximately $50 million of LaunchPad savings in 2015.
Now I'll discuss the performance of Covance Drug Development.
Pro forma revenue for the quarter was $625 million a decrease of 1.9% from 637 million last year.
The strengthening U.S.
dollar negatively impacted revenue growth by approximately 410 basis points.
On a constant currency basis revenue increased to 2.2% over last year on increased volume partially offset by business mix.
Pro forma adjusted operating income was $72 million or 11.6% of revenue compared to 77 million or 12.1% last year.
The decline in operating margin reflects the impact of currency and unfavorable mix partially offset by increased volume.
Changes in mix resulted from stronger growth in the early development business and lower revenue per kit in essential lab business.
Operating income benefited from approximately $5 million of cost synergies relating to the integration of Covance.
We are on-track to deliver cost synergies in 2015 of approximately $35 million.
Net orders during the quarter were 155 million representing a net book-to-bill of 1.37.
Backlog at the end of the quarter was $6.4 billion.
This figure reflects the change in methodology from how Covance accounted for its backlogs historically.
We have excluded committed minimum volume backlog that is not yet associated with specific project awards.
In addition we've adjusted the backlog to reflect the segments current configuration.
A reconciliation of beginning to ending backlog is included in our current report filed today on Form 8-K.
Now I'll comment on our 2015 guidance.
We expect revenue growth of 39% to 42% inclusive of Covance as of February 19th after the impact of approximately 230 basis points of negative currency.
We've assumed that the foreign exchange rates stay at March 31 2015 levels for the remainder of the year resulting in an additional 70 basis points headwind versus our previous guidance which used rates as of January 31st.
We expect LabCorp Diagnostics to grow 3% to 5% in 2015 after the impact of approximately 70 basis points of negative currency.
Covance Drug Development is expected to grow 0% to 2% versus full year 2014 after the impact of approximately 440 basis points of negative currency.
The lower guidance for Covance reflects an additional 110 basis point headwind from currency versus prior guidance as well as unfavorable mix in the central lab business and lower than expected revenue conversion in the clinical business.
We expect 2015 adjusted EPS of $7.55 to $7.90 compared to $6.80 last year.
We estimate approximately 100 million total weighted average diluted shares outstanding for 2015.
Operating cash flow in 2015 is expected to be 1.045 billion to 1.07 billion.
Capital expenditures of 325 million to 350 million and free cash flow of 695 million to 745 million.
Operating and free cash flow estimates are reduced by approximately $120 million of net non-recurring items related to the Covance acquisition.
These items include advisory fees the makewhole payment on Covance’s notes and change in control payments partially offset by paying only one of the semi-annual interest payments on the acquisition debt in 2015.
The $30 million reduction in operating and free cash flow from prior guidance is due to a reclassification which increased acquisition-related charges and decreased the acquisition cash purchase price.
Excluding the net non-recurring items we expect free cash flow to be 815 million to 855 million unchanged from our prior guidance.
This concludes our formal remarks and we’ll now take questions operator? Operator we’ll now take some questions.
Your first question comes from Robert Willoughby with Bank of America.
Please proceed.
The one-time cash needs for Covance for the year were about 30 million from the initial estimate what drove that? Yes.
Robert this is Glenn it's effectively a reclassification what we had assumed at the time we announced our deal and provided the guidance as you know was kind of the day after closing was we had to assume how much was going to be the purchase price and cash for the value of the business and then the subsequent events of one-time deal-related advisory CIC and so forth.
30 million that we assumed would be part of the purchase price based upon the accounting would now be treated as cash from operating activities so effectively what we've done is we’ve increased or decreased cash from operating activities by about 30 million decreased the purchase price cash that we paid for the acquisition so from a cash standpoint there is no change so when you look at free cash flow though we obviously have to -- and you gave that 30 million but again effectively when you exclude the deal-related our free cash flow excluding one-time deal-related is the same as what we’ve provided as guidance when we established it back in February.
And we have Project LaunchPad cost and what you are going to spend to achieve the Covance deal synergies do you have any target for the other restructuring expense for the year that was still tracking a higher level? Yes I’d say for the most part all of the I’ll call it deal-related charges were done in the first quarter the only difference will be some additional CIC payments that would be paid out as people would potentially exit the company if they were part of the synergies.
The other restructuring if you will will continue to be as we execute and implement our Project LaunchPad primarily there is some advisory fees in that but that will start to go away and then it really will be just the cost associated with executing on those programs so whether it would be facility rationalization headcount reduction and so forth there will be some additional one-time charges as we’ve told you before what we've also done is when we provide savings from effectively whether it's Covance synergies or LaunchPad savings we do it on a net basis relative to ongoing cost that would be needed to support those savings so for example if we implement a new systems to support a LaunchPad initiative the ongoing depreciation or additional cost would be netted out of those savings.
Your next question comes from Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
As I look at the guidance for Covance going forward it looks like the expectation is from here that the trend is going to get better so one Glenn am I looking at that correctly and then secondly Dave when you talk the most recent biotech opportunity last quarter if I remember correctly Joe had quantified the size of it are you comfortable quantifying the size of what you talked about today? Lisa it's Dave.
Unfortunately I don't have the size of the opportunity I just got the information shortly before the call this morning so let us reflect on that and then we can deal with it after the call.
Yes the only thing I’d add Lisa too and ask Joe if he wants to add color to it as that Covance is expected to see continued improvement as it progresses sequentially throughout the year again the only caveat obviously would be the potential impact of currency where we’re assuming that that's flat and not only do we expect to see improved revenue growth sequentially throughout the year in the business by what the benefit of the synergy capture that we expect we should be able to leverage those incremental sales very well.
The revenue opportunity is in the range of 10 million.
In the range of $10 million okay.
And then just lastly as we look at this and we look at the results incredibly strong Dave as you talked about in LabCorp but can you give us any more color around that 5% organic I know you said both core and esoteric growing but can you talk about may be what some of the key trends for around that growth in the quarter and substantially better than what we're seeing kind of across the industry? Yes.
I'll make a couple of comments and then I'll ask Jay who runs the business if he wants to add anything.
First of all obviously it's a one of the strongest quarters we've had in recent years and so I want to give credit to our senior operating team our leadership and everyone of the 36 000 up and down from top to bottom who have made it possible it’s just a tremendous effort in maintaining the quality of service and the quality of our work as the volume increases so kudos to the entire leadership team.
We won some business last year we won a couple of significant contracts and those absolutely have helped us in terms of volume growth and just to focus expectations for the latter part of the year those will be annualizing by the end of the second quarter so obviously we will see a once those annualize you will see a little bit different volume growth characteristics but 5.2% organic volume is just an outstanding performance and I am very proud of the team for that.
Jay? Thank you Dave and thank you Lisa for noting that.
Dave kind of hit on some of the things that I would have talked about he talked about our people and I think it really does start there.
We have just an outstanding salesforce we have outstanding senior leadership and the thing that I'm pleased about is as you can imagine there is a lot of excitement around this business right now and the opportunities that we have in front of us with the acquisition of Covance and it was important that our people stayed focused on growing the business which is what they have done.
In addition to that we have some outstanding relationships with our managed care partners and we’re seeing growth across the board in both the esoteric and the core business but particularly in our managed care sector and our hospital reference business because of the contracts and the awards that we won Dave alluded to earlier so we’re really pleased and as Dave mentioned we’re going to continue we expect to continue to grow our volume we’ll have tougher comps as we head through the back half of this year but we look forward to continued good performances and thank you for noticing.
Your next question comes from Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Is it possible for you to quantify the impact of the new business as it annualizes in the second quarter and the rest of the year organic volume growth? Gary.
It's Dave.
Generally as you know we don't breakout specific contributions to volume and revenue growth other than at a high level as we have with volume growth price impact and currency so I would say the answer to your question is no it's possible but we’re not going to do it.
The organic volume growth benefit in any way from Covance I thought you might have mentioned that there were some testing that shifted over to LabCorp? No I’d say by definition organic we've excluded all acquisition-related volume from that we have said and as I guess Dave alluded to earlier that the organic growth was 5.2% in the diagnostic side we did share with you that an acquisitions contributed an additional 0.8 from the volume that we would have done from those acquisitions but organic is excluding it.
And then may be going back to the comments on the biotech win you mentioned that you created a heat map to sort of figure out I guess geographically where the patients were what's the dynamic in terms of reaching the physician who can then reach out to the patient or was that not appropriate in this case? No obviously one of the ways that we support trial recruitment is for patients who have a direct relationship with us we can reach out to them and for patients who we don't have a direct relationship with that is they haven’t signed up for the patient portal or given us an email address or other ways in which we can contact them directly then we go to the physician and we highlight to the physician the opportunity that they have patients who are trial-eligible and would they like to recruit the patients in the trial.
Obviously given the acuity of these types of infections one would expect the physician response rate and the patient response rate to be fairly high.
Yes.
This is Joe.
I'd like to just add how unique this asset is in the combined company.
Keep in mind that Covance is directly connected to 50% of all clinical trial patients in the world and when you add that to longitudinal database of 75 million of LabCorp when you can query both of those extensive databases and use informatics capabilities and data display to show the sponsors where the patients are and then following the appropriate HIPAA guidelines to be able to either contact them directly or through a physician is really an unmatched asset on this planet.
And we have a couple of wins in a very short amount of time and we are highly motivated to automate that capability and use it as a real competitive advantage and ultimately that means sponsors get their drugs to market faster which benefits them and ultimately patients get new life saving medications like the one Dave mentioned that attacks among other infections most of which is very resistant to current therapy so it's really a win for everybody.
Your next question comes from Bill Bonello with Craig-Hallum.
Please proceed.
It looks like a very strong quarter.
I wanted to just focus on CRO revenue piece and just have you may be give us a little bit more color besides currency what changed in your thinking in terms of the CRO revenue guidance or the Covance revenue guidance and kind of how that relates or contrasts with the very strong book-to-bill and sort of which numbers are more important to read into? Bill good morning it’s Dave I am going to make a couple of preliminary comments and then let Joe give you more detail the first thing I want to highlight is if you adjust for the impact of currency we are still guiding to 4.4% to 6.4% revenue growth so that in my view is very strong growth guidance on a year-over-year constant currency basis.
As we indicated in the prepared comments the major impacts were strong growth and early development which mixes us down and reimbursement or price per kit in central labs which also mixes us down from a revenue growth perspective.
But the orders and the book-to-bill are extremely impressive and so we feel terrific about the long-term revenue growth opportunity and as has been previously mentioned obviously the guidance implies that revenue growth increases later in the year.
So with that my perspective is we had a lot of currency headwind but the base business the base Covance business is performing very well and with that I'll turn it over to Joe for further comments.
Yes first of all for the second consecutive quarter Covance reported record new orders.
If you followed us historically we had 12 consecutive quarters where net orders started with a seven and we’ve pushed through 800 million in the fourth quarter and then 855 million in the first quarter and that is right in the middle of announcing the combination of our companies and trying to keep people on-track and keeping them focused so to have record order quarters is pretty impressive.
In fact they were so impressive we did an independent market research project where it was blinded and clients said they were actually more inclined to include Covance in the bid list and to consider Covance as combined with LabCorp than even Covance on its own.
When you think about the 855 million in net orders that is overwhelmingly and both central labs and clinical that’s where our orders come and those don’t start producing revenue generally for six to nine and more like nine to 12 months so there is a little bit of a delayed reaction.
In terms of the revenue softness being softer than what we expected it is overwhelmingly related to central labs and it's personally frustrating for me and the whole Covance team because record orders in the first quarter we had record kits going out the door and so the engine is stoked but for the vagaries of central lab not as many kits have come in so far and the ones that have come in either have revenue per test or geographic or therapeutic mix which is less than what we were expecting.
Keep in mind that for the past 10 years whether you look at a three or five or a 10 year CAGR Covance central lab grows 10% and that’s what we’ve projected for the year and last year it was much higher than that and this year so far it’s much lower but we are projecting much stronger kits in the second half of the year and that’s what you see in our revenue guidance.
Secondary to that was slower than expected conversion of clinical studies and again that happens from time-to-time but clinical also had greater orders and then that marries off against really strong performances in early development our market access business and early clinical so that thrown in the blender with the FX headwind and that’s where we are but again we are optimistic looking forward.
That was an awesome explanation and makes us feel much better about the lookout or the outlook I guess.
And just if I can ask one completely unrelated question Dave can you give us any thoughts on when BeaconLBS will be expanded to either other payers beyond United or to other markets beyond Florida? Bill.
It's our goal to expand BeaconLBS both to additional markets and to additional payors and that's -- we had a number of discussions with additional payors.
Obviously we've been live for a relatively short period of time we got to get some experience under our belt and we’ll look forward to updating you on progress and when those expansions will occur overtime.
Your next question comes from Michael Cherny with Evercore.
Please proceed.
So I just want to dive in a little bit more.
Joe you mentioned some of the book-to-bill numbers.
You've seen the really strong trends last couple of quarters.
As you think about how you make those discussions with some of these biotechs using maybe the one as an example in terms of the trial that you were pleased with how are you going to get the proof points out? Will you be able to provide interim data in terms of the way that some of these enrollment processes are going on these trials where you can go out and further prove just how successful it has been on an early basis? Or I guess given that you won't have the proof points of how successful these trials are early on is it still just the promise of what you can deliver verses maybe necessarily having actual results for how successful this will be? Well first of all all of our relationships with clients as well as specific study data is contractually confidential and if you look at the history of our company and frankly our competitors you know we really only make specific comments along those lines when the customer wants to publish the data and it would not surprise me if these first two studies if they perform as we thought clients may want to say something about that they could I think they're very excited about being able to actually see where the patients are which makes them much more confident that a CRO can enroll the trial on-time or faster.
But again it's the clients’ decision on that not ours.
And then just you talked about central lab you talked a bit about late stage.
Can you just give us a little bit more color as well on early stage and some of the underlying performance there and what you are seeing from both the strengths and potential challenges perspective? Well a fundamental sort of canary in the coal mine is biotech funding and you know it's been at a very-very high level and those clients basically help build the capacity for Covance and our major competitors.
Secondly a number of pharma companies are as you well know starting to have better productivity from their pipeline and they're more enthusiastic about investing in R&amp;D and knowing that they're going to get a return on their R&amp;D investments so some of those are coming back to for.
That didn't really happen in the first quarter but the new wins and the forward outlook anticipates pharma at sort of getting back to work I guess I would say.
But the strength of the early development business in the industry in total is very encouraging after the last four or five years of less than expected performance.
The next question comes from Glen Santangelo with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Just two quick questions Dave wanted to follow up on the Covance margins.
If I hear what you are saying correctly on the revenue side it kind of sounds like there was unfavorable mix and the central lab as being one of the big contributors to the lower-than-expected revenues and is that primarily what explains maybe the slightly weaker-than-expected margins? And if we assume that the trend in central labs reverses itself throughout the balance of the year should we see that positively impact the margin line in the balance of the year as well? Yes Glen this Glenn Eisenberg let me take a first cut and Dave and Joe may want to step in.
But to your point during the quarter obviously margins came down but principally due to the impact of currency but also the mix of the business so the benefit was obviously we got some volume benefit as well as the synergy savings.
As we project out in the business going forward we do have a more positive outlook volume is going to continue to improve hopefully the mix will start to improve and we know we're going to get the synergies to continue to grow so our expectation for the business will be again continued top-line growth as we go throughout the year subject to the currency impact obviously but especially leveraging those sales well.
Maybe if I can just follow-up with one question on the diagnostics side.
The pricing the rev per requisition was down 60 basis points which seems like another small sequential improvement from where we were trending in fiscal 2014.
Dave maybe could you update us what is going on there and sort of your outlook on lab pricing for the balance of the year? Yes sure Glen.
Obviously the 60 basis points is both a sequential improvement and a significant year-over-year improvement and basically the big driver of the 60 basis points and reported decline is just payor mix so we continue to see uninsured patients moving to exchange or manages Medicaid products and that has a downward impact on the revenue per requisition and so I think we're actually looping our way through that as I see a enrollment completes and stabilizes but that to me is kind of the primary reason and as I say we feel pretty good about it because unit price is not going down what we're seeing is mix-driven price impact.
Your next question comes from Amanda Murphy with William Blair.
Please proceed.
Just had a follow-up on the guidance I think you said 100 million in share count that you expected -- diluted share count -- for this year and maybe that was a slight reduction in what you had said last quarter.
I don't know if I am reading too much into that? No Amanda that's correct.
That on a fully dilutive weighted average shares count we expect to and our guidance is predicated on a assumption of 100 million shares for the full year.
So then the right way to think about that is $0.20 of increase roughly $0.15 of that is the share count and so then the base business maybe added $0.05 or more given the increased currency effect is that fair? That's correct.
And then just another one on the book-to-bill so I realize it's early and you have made a few comments on this already and especially some anecdotal evidence of wins but is there a way to tease out at this point the strong book-to-bill how much of that is the legacy Covance business and markets doing better vis-à-vis any benefits from having the combined company together at this point? I’ll say it’s overwhelmingly legacy Covance at this time but again high client interest in talking with us and exploring the assets of the combined company.
And Amanda Dave just a quick exclamation point of that I mean I think Joe made a very important point which is you are going through an acquisition and integration of closing and you have another quarter of record orders and very strong book-to-bill so I think the important thing to think about is yes it is we agree I agree it’s mostly legacy Covance but we didn't have a distraction factor in either of the businesses and I am very pleased about that.
And did you give a cancellation rate on the backlog? No we did not.
Okay.
All right thanks very much.
Keep in mind that we report net orders so it’s net of cancellations.
We normally don't comment on cancellations that's a not a part but I think I would say that they are the lowering of the historical range.
Your next question comes from Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Just a follow-up on the early-stage business hoping that you could maybe put a little more color on the specific constant currency growth rate you saw there and maybe give us and apples-to-apples view on how that trended versus 4Q? This is Glenn well let me really start and then Joe may want to provide color.
As we've now moved to kind of the new segmentation of the company we are really providing the details if you as the segments.
We’re glad to provide color as far as the direction that the businesses that comprise those segments but we are not providing detailed numbers and growth rates and so forth.
Yes I think generally what you say is that early development was higher than that company average of 2.2 clinical Phase 1 to four was sort of in that average and central labs was basically flat so ballparkish on a constant currency basis.
I appreciate all that incremental and then just a follow-up on the general environment.
I think if we look at the numbers for the biotech industry first-quarter funding on the equity side was by far a record quarter a huge amount of money raised.
So if we take in context what is going on with the funding side versus what you guys are seeing book-to-bill maybe help us reconcile the timing around which we might see any of those bolus dollars kind of flowing through to your business.
Appreciate it is going to be company-specific and maybe not directly correlated but I would assume that it's at least a positive correlation between the amount of money being raised and the amount of money being spent on CROs? Yes there is a positive correlation it’s usually a six to nine month lag between what you see in terms of funding and revenue coming into the CRO industry.
Your next question comes from Jack Meehan with Barclays Capital.
Please proceed.
I just wanted to follow up on the PAMA commentary and just see if you had an update in terms of when you -- timing for when you expect we will get a formal update and I know Dave you mentioned the complexity of collecting data and just thoughts around the hospital labs submitting the data -- they already submit cost reports so just what is some of the thinking there? Yes.
Jack it’s Dave good morning.
I think this is a it is a quite complex task and I think CMS is making a real good faith effort to listen to the constituencies and try to understand what they should be looking for.
It's true that hospital submit cost reports but as you know the hospital what we're looking at here is not DRG payments it's not out patient prospective payments it's just fee-for-service payments and so it's a subset of payments and it's a subset of payors because it’s non-government payors that the government is interested in looking at to determine market so it's a pretty complicated task you don't want to overburden either the hospitals or frankly the independent labs I mean if you think about the number of acquisitions that we have done and the number of tax ID numbers that we have you don't want an independent lab to have to report their data with 55 different tax IDs that would be enormously time consuming and complex so I think CMS is making an effort to listen to the constituencies and deal with the complexity and come out with a rule and we don’t have any update on the timeline but we know they're working hard and we're trying to be constructive and supportive in that effort.
And then just trying to tease out between the routine and the esoteric growth in the quarter is there any -- was there anything noticeable on the esoteric side in terms of individual products that were driving the growth or do you think it is just more broad-based -- the market is doing better and the segment is doing better? I think it's broad-based market doing better and segment doing better I wouldn't point to or highlight any specific test or group of tests.
Obviously we continue to do nicely with women's health that's been a strong point for us we continue to do nicely with genetics those are couple of good areas within esoteric.
Your next question comes from Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley please proceed.
Dave you responded to Glen's question that coverage expansion is impacting the price mix and it sounds like it's coming from Medicaid.
So are you seeing any pullthrough volume from coverage expansion excluding Medicaid and are you factoring in any benefit from expansion or pick up there in your guidance for the second half? The challenge in determining what is ACA driven other than managed Medicaid where it's pretty obvious is that when a patient shows up with an insurance card we don't know if it's an exchange patient or if it's a standard commercial patient.
We don't have any way of determining that so it's a little hard to say are we seeing pull through business from coverage expansion or are we not.
Again I think we saw very strong organic volume growth which suggests to me that we're seeing the benefit of the business that we won last year and there are clearly some pull through coming from that business.
In terms of what's factored in for the second half of the year actually the next three quarters of the year we haven't finished the first half of the year we're not factoring in any significant increase in enrolment for the balance of the year we're simply factoring in the diagnostics business continuing to do a very nice job in the market in terms of selling and execution and that's what drives the top-line revenue growth guidance.
And then one follow-up on the Covance business can you share with us how you think about the Covance portfolio especially kind of like the early development but really preclinical within it? Obviously demand is high and it seems from results that Covance is growing top line but how does the segment fit with your long-term strategy? Well Ricky it's Dave you know one of the reasons that we liked Covance as an acquisition opportunity is the complete platform and the broad scope of services so I mentioned in the prepared remarks how the bio-analytical business was cross-selling into toxicology was cross-selling into chemistry.
So right now we like the way all the businesses fit together and we're enthusiastic about the opportunity to grow early development obviously had as Joe mentioned had some challenges for a couple of years but right now the business is growing strongly it's an integral part of the complete one stop platform that we built and so we're excited about it.
Your next question comes from A.J.
Rice with UBS.
Please proceed.
Maybe two quick questions here first of all I know one area in the lab testing that you have highlighted the last two years has been the molecular diagnostic area and some of the travails of trying to get approval out of some Medicaid programs as well as TRICARE.
Any update on that? A.J.
it's Dave we continue to work hard at that.
I wouldn't expect any significant impact in the run rate either of the -- where MoPath is not being paid for or of collections we have collected based on appeals and payor policy changes we have collected some against the outstanding receivables but the run rate's about the same.
Obviously we're looking now at accounts and opportunities to where we know that there is an account where there is a large amount of MoPath business that we’re not getting paid for it opportunities to manage better with that and Jay if you have any further comments on that you can.
I think you have covered it.
And then just the other one is you had mentioned in the prepared remarks about the lab-developed tests and the FDA review there and commentary any sense of how that is going to unfold timing-wise and when we might actually get some resolution on this? I think the FDA comment period closed I think there were a very large number of comments so it's really going to be determined by the FDA in terms of when they respond to the comments and obviously there is some legislative activity going on as well and we’re doing our best to be engaged in the all of the conversations.
Your next question comes from David Clair with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed.
I had a couple quick questions on the diagnostics side of the business here.
So the first one just on the recently issued next-generation sequencing CPT codes just curious if LabCorp is billing under these new codes currently and is this impacting collections at all.
And then can you give us an update on BRCA and NIPT testing? It's Dave I'll start with next-gen and then Jay will talk about the BRCA and NIPT the next-gen sequencing codes I want to be clear that next-gen sequencing is a methodology so it's not like we're doing new testing or different testing it's simply there is a different methodology being used and so at this point the coding has not have an impact first of all it’s not a significant component of the business at this point although it will grow but the coding has not had an impact on either revenue or collections and I will turn it over to Jay in terms of the BRCA and the NIPT.
Yes on the BRCA David we see it obviously as a growth opportunity however given the size it's not substantial in terms of or it is not material in terms of our entire book of business and it’s one of the many tests that we go ahead and offer.
And it's Dave on NIPT obviously we are -- we have transitioned to offering our own test in pharmacy and I'm pleased with the volume and revenue there and continue to see it as I mentioned as a growth opportunity around women's health.
Thank you.
So we're right at the top of the hour we have a couple of more people in the queue I'll ask you to keep the questions short please so we can get everybody in and also not ask questions that have been previously responded to.
Your next question comes from Darren Lehrich with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Just a brief question I had about companion diagnostics and just wondering if you can frame at this point the backlog in terms of how the trials are with companion diagnostics as a component of that and where you think that might be going.
I think you've laid that out as a strategy so that's the question? Yes.
We don't break down the backlog by type of trial companion diagnostics as you know particularly oncology about 40% of the trials involve some kind of an associated biomarker in companion diagnostic and so it's a very nice long-term opportunity for us as I think we mentioned early on there were 16 companion diagnostics 10 years ago and now there is 116 and that number grows every year.
We have a work team that is specifically focused on capitalizing other companion diagnostics opportunity and integrating all of our services to be the desired partner in companion diagnostics and we’re very pleased with the progress there.
Your next question comes from Bryan Brokmeier with Maxim Group.
Please proceed.
You talked about providing a heat map of where patients are located to the biotech company whose business you won in the quarter.
It sounds a bit more detailed of an analysis than you provided to the customer in the prior quarter.
Are you still improving your understanding of how to present your offering to customers and while you have won a few contracts already which is impressive should we anticipate an inflection point later this year when customers start to award you with many more contracts? Well.
It’s hard to say what is going to happen in the back half of the year all I can say is that we try to target places where this data would make the biggest impact on the client and so far we’re very excited about what's going on.
We have a lot of work ahead of us in terms of making the process easier and more efficient and having the right display tools and that type of thing so I would just say we will continue to talk about this in coming quarters but we’re pleased with the start actually faster than what we would have projected.
Yes.
I agree with Joe's comments I think that as he said automating this process and making it simple from our perspective and from the client's perspective will only lead to greater opportunity in the long run but as you mentioned Bryan the idea of being able to provide a heat map with potential patients for a condition as acute as this one I think is a real competitive differentiator and just shows you what the long-term opportunity is here in terms of our first dated priority which is to improve the speed of trial recruitment and reduce the cost of trials.
I would now turn the call over to Mr.
Dave King for closing remarks.
Once again we'd like to thank you all for participating in our first quarter conference call.
Very pleased with the quarter and with the performance both from the Diagnostics and the Drug Development business and we look forward to updating you on our performance in the future.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Reporting For Second Quarter 2015.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Paul Surdez Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to LabCorp's second quarter 2015 conference call.
As detailed in today’s press release there will be a replay of this conference call available via telephone and internet.
With me today are Dave King Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Glenn Eisenberg Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Jay Boyle Chief Executive Officer of LabCorp Diagnostics; Joe Herring Chief Executive Officer of Covance Drug Development and Deborah Keller incoming CEO of Covance Drug Development.
In addition to our press release we also filed a Form 8-K this morning that includes additional financial information.
Both are available in the investor relations section of our website at <a href="http://www.labcorp.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.labcorp.com</u></a> and include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call to GAAP.
Finally we are making forward-looking statements during today’s call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results the implementation of our business strategy and the ongoing benefits from acquisitions.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect our financial results.
Some of these factors are set-forth in detail in our 2014 10-K and our subsequent filings with the SEC.
We have no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dave King.
Thank you Paul and good morning.
We had an outstanding quarter in which we delivered impressive top line growth as well as record revenue earnings and cash flow.
We began to see the power of the combined businesses which extends far beyond merely combining central lab capabilities.
Our results demonstrate the soundness of our decision to acquire Covance and create the world’s leading healthcare diagnostics company and strengthen our conviction in our ability to create long-term value for patients customers and shareholders through integrated lab testing our global drug development capabilities and technology enabled solutions.
Overall I am very pleased with our execution and our results in the quarter.
Each of our businesses performed well.
LabCorp Diagnostics reported another exceptional quarter.
We continue to drive strong revenue growth led by increased organic volume.
During the quarter we observed solid growth in both esoteric and core testing and revenue per requisition was positive for the first time in over two years.
LabCorp Diagnostics’ strong top line growth converted into attractive profit growth.
Adjusted operating income excluding amortization of nearly $350 million or 22% of net revenue translated to 130 basis points year-on-year margin improvement.
This increase in profitability was driven by strong volume growth and improved productivity founded on Project LaunchPad.
Through LaunchPad we continue to progress with multiple initiatives to re-engineer our company to deliver the highest quality services in the most efficient manner.
Covance Drug Development reported revenue growth on a constant currency basis of 1.8% over last year’s pro forma revenue.
Early development had strong growth and margin expansion as the toxicology market continues to improve.
Central labs revenue increased nicely on a sequential basis due to higher kit receipts as we predicted on our first quarter call.
Central labs also contributed strong new orders in the quarter.
Clinical business net orders were lower than expected which combined with slower than typical revenue conversion resulted in growth below our expectations.
We are focused on restoring growth in this important service line and expect to see results from these efforts in future quarters.
Looking ahead we see multiple drivers of future profitable growth.
First the trajectory of our central labs business is encouraging.
We had very strong levels of [Indiscernible] kit shipments throughout the quarter and our average kit receipts over the last two months have increased.
Second we are encouraged by positive momentum in the early development business fuelled by continuing strength in biotech funding levels.
Third we will benefit over time from investing in growing the clinical business.
Fourth we continue to capture cost synergies from our acquisition.
Now I would like to comment on our progress with the development of new business models that leverage our combined capabilities.
The integration of our businesses continues to go well.
I am enthusiastic about the coordinated efforts of our sales force and scientific leadership teams.
We have dedicated teams focused on driving more than $300 million in incremental annual revenue by 2018 through accelerated clinical trial enrolment end-to-end capabilities in companion diagnostics and broad use of real world evidence in support of clinical trials.
Our clinical team is featuring the utility of our patient database as a competitive differentiator to enhance patient enrolment and this initiative has generated a consistently positive response from our clients.
Furthermore we are deploying our differentiated offering to win business.
Earlier this month we were awarded a life cycle management Phase 3b study for uncommon chronically ill patients that present a difficult population to recruit.
Using diagnosis codes in our patient database we obtained unique insights that allowed us to identify eligible patients and their treating physicians which gave our client confidence in our ability to timely enroll the study.
We will next be contracting treating physicians to recruit patients that meet the selection criteria for this important trial.
In addition our joint analytics team is responding to multiple client requests to use de-identified patient data for commercial purposes usually in combination with other datasets.
Examples include market sizing comparative effectiveness deploying a personalized approach to therapy administration assessing safety signals and identifying opportunities to improve patient [entry].
Through the interest generated from our combination we have expanded conversations with existing clients and initiated dialogue with new potential clients.
We also continue to speak with drug sponsors that expressed interest in consolidating R&amp;D outsourcing from multiple vendors across multiple areas of development to a preferred partner to improve efficiency and reduce the cost of bringing a new drug to market.
We see a growing awareness that we can deliver unique solutions that will further validate our decision to deploy capital through this highly strategic combination.
Finally we continue to develop and commercialize technology enabled solutions that use data to enhance decision making provide scalable platforms and applications for our customers and change the way care is delivered.
We have long been committed to helping achieve better patient outcomes at lower cost and we have two services in flight towards that end Beacon LBS and Enlighten Health.
Beacon LBS is an innovative technology enabled solution that is modernizing delivery and laboratory services.
Beacon LBS connects physicians will evidence-based clinical guidelines during the ordering process providing physicians with access to rich clinical content within existing workflows.
The application promotes use of the appropriate test for the appropriate patient at the appropriate time to enhance the delivery of optimal care.
Last quarter the Beacon LBS team achieved its goal of full implementation and this quarter Beacon LBS contributed 1.1% to our organic revenue growth.
I congratulate the entire Beacon LBS team on achieving an outcome that was little more than a dream when they began work on this project some five years ago.
The Beacon LBS team remains engaged in discussions with existing and prospective clients that are expanding Beacon LBS’ utilization and we look forward to providing updates in the future.
Enlighten Health is utilizing the combined company’s informatics and analytics tools to develop customer solutions and partnerships such as data integration and data visualization applications.
This business is implementing our data strategy and allows us to capture the value of our database and technological skills.
To close I am profoundly grateful to our 48 000 employees around the globe for their efforts during this quarter as well as to their leadership.
We have asked a great deal of our people on multiple fronts and they have responded with energy and enthusiasm.
Most of all they have delivered impressive results and I’m proud of each of them and proud to have the honor of leading this great team.
As the world’s leading healthcare diagnostics company we are well positioned to drive profitable growth and create long-term patient customer and shareholder value by delivering world-class diagnostics bringing innovative new drugs to market and using data to change the way care is delivered.
Now I will turn the call over to Glenn.
Thank you Dave.
I'm going to start my comments with a review of our consolidated second quarter results followed by a discussion of our LabCorp Diagnostics and Covance Drug Development segments and conclude with an update on our 2015 guidance.
Revenue for the quarter was $2.2 billion an increase of 46% over last year.
The acquisition of Covance contributed $621 million during the quarter driving 41% year-over-year revenue growth with the other 5% primarily due to strong organic volumes across both core and esoteric testing Beacon LBS and tuck-in acquisitions partially offset by currency.
Gross profit for the quarter was $775 million or 34.9% of revenue compared to $569 million or 37.5% last year.
The increase in gross profit dollars was due primarily to the acquisition of Covance as well as organic volume and productivity.
The decline in gross margin was due to the mix impact from Covance.
Excluding Covance gross margin would have been 38.2% an increase of 70 basis points over last year.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was $392 million or 17.7% of revenue compared to $298 million or 19.6% last year.
Excluding special charges of $9 million related to the acquisition of Covance and Project LaunchPad SG&amp;A in the quarter was $384 million or 17.3% of revenue a 200 basis point reduction versus last year’s adjusted SG&amp;A.
The increase in SG&amp;A was primarily due to Covance and personnel costs partially offset by Project LaunchPad savings.
The favorable reduction in SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue benefited from Covance and the reduction in our bad debt rate.
Excluding Covance and special charges SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue would have been 19% an improvement of 30 basis points over last year.
During the quarter we recorded $23 million of restructuring charges and special items primarily relating to facility closures severance Project LaunchPad and the acquisition of Covance.
Amortization expense for the quarter was $47 million up from $22 million a year ago due to the impact of acquisitions.
Operating income for the quarter was $321 million or 14.5% of revenue compared to $247 million or 16.3% last year.
Excluding amortization restructuring and special items of $70 million adjusted operating income was $391 million or 17.6% of revenue compared to $275 million or 18.2% last year.
The increase in adjusted operating income is primarily due to the Covance acquisition organic volume growth and productivity partially offset by currency.
Excluding the mix impact from Covance the adjusted operating margin would have been 19.2% an increase of 100 basis points over last year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $58 million compared to $26 million last year.
The increase was due to higher debt balances following the acquisition of Covance.
The expense lower than last year’s 39.1% rate driven by the mix impact of Covance the tax rate for the quarter was higher than our expected rate of 35% as we had a greater percentage of our earnings generated in the US.
For the remainder of the year we expect an effective tax rate of approximately 36%.
As a result net earnings for the quarter were $168 million or $1.64 per diluted share compared to $141 million or $1.64 per diluted share last year.
Excluding amortization restructuring and other special items adjusted EPS were $2.09 in the quarter up 14% from $1.84 last year.
During the quarter operating cash flow was $397 million compared to $207 million last year with the increase due to the acquisition of Covance as well as improved earnings and working capital.
Capital expenditures totaled $69 million compared to $48 million last year due to Covance.
As a result free cash flow was $328 million compared to $159 million last year.
At quarter-end our cash balance was $619 million compared to $446 million at the end of the first quarter.
Total debt was approximately $6.8 billion.
Our liquidity was approximately $1.6 billion consisting of cash and available credit.
During the quarter we invested $62 million in acquisitions and paid down $145 million of debt reducing the company’s leverage to 3.6 times net debt to last 12 months pro forma EBITDA.
Now I will review our segment performance.
For comparative purposes segment results are presented on a pro forma basis for all periods as of the acquisition of Covance closed on January 1 2014 and exclude amortization restructuring special items and unallocated corporate expenses.
Reconciliations of segment results to historically reported results are included in today's press release and the current report filed today on Form 8-K.
In addition during the quarter we substantially completed our fair market value adjustments in accordance with purchase price accounting associated with the acquisition of Covance.
This resulted in reduced depreciation expense of approximately $5 million in the quarter.
We expect to complete our fair market value adjustments related to the acquisition by the end of the year.
Now I'll review the performance of LabCorp Diagnostics.
Revenue for the quarter was $1.6 billion an increase of 5.4% over last year.
The increase in revenue was the result of strong organic volume measured by requisitions Beacon LBS and tuck-in acquisitions partially offset by currency.
The increase in revenue of 5.4% includes the benefit from Beacon LBS of 1.1% and an unfavorable foreign currency translation of 0.7%.Total volume measured by requisitions increased by 4.7% of which organic volume was 4.3% and acquisition volume was 0.4%.
Revenue per requisition increased by 0.2%.
LabCorp Diagnostics’ adjusted operating income for the quarter was $347 million or 22% of revenue compared to $309 million or 20.7% last year.
The increase was primarily due to strong volume growth and productivity.
Improvement in productivity was driven in part by Project LaunchPad which delivered approximately $15 million in savings in the quarter.
We remain on-track to deliver approximately $50 million of LaunchPad savings in 2015.
Now I'll discuss the performance of Covance Drug Development.
Revenue for the quarter was $644 million a decrease of 2.7% from last year.
The strengthening US dollar negatively impacted revenue growth by approximately 450 basis points.
On a constant currency basis revenue increased 1.8% over last year due to volume growth partially offset by unfavorable mix.
The business experienced broad-based volume growth led by early development.
We saw sequential improvement in the central lab business but demand was lower than expected in our clinical business.
Adjusted operating income was $90 million or 14% of revenue compared to $85 million or 12.8% last year.
The increase in profit and margin was primarily due to increased volume lower depreciation expense and cost synergies of approximately $10 million partially offset by currency and mix.
We are on track to deliver cost synergies in 2015 of approximately $35 million.
Net orders during the quarter were $737 million representing a net book-to-bill of 1.15 while backlog at quarter-end was $6.6 billion.
Now I'll update our 2015 guidance.
We expect revenue growth of 40% to 42% inclusive of Covance as of February 19th after the impact of approximately 190 basis points of negative currency.
We've assumed that foreign exchange rates stay at June 30 2015 levels for the remainder of the year.
We expect LabCorp Diagnostics to grow 3.5% to 5.5% in 2015 after the impact of approximately 70 basis points of negative currency.
This is an increase from our prior guidance of 3% to 5% primarily due to better-than-expected organic growth as well as the additional revenue from tuck-in acquisitions.
We expect a change in Covance Drug Development net revenue to be in a range of minus 1.5% to 5% versus full year 2014 after the impact of approximately 320 basis points of negative currency.
This is a decrease from our previous range of 0% to 2%.
The lower guidance for Covance reflects lower-than-expected revenue conversion and orders in the clinical business partially offset by 120 basis point improvement in currency.
We expect 2015 adjusted EPS of $7.75 to $8 compared to prior guidance of $7.55 to $7.90.
the increase in our guidance reflect strong second quarter performance and outlook for the year as well as lower depreciation expense of approximately $0.10 per share due to purchase price accounting that was updated during the quarter.
We expect operating cash flow in 2015 to be $990 million to $1.015 billion versus our prior guidance of $1.045 to $1.07 billion.
Capital expenditures are expected to be $270 million to $295 million versus prior guidance of $325 million to $350 million.
As a result free cash flow remains unchanged from our prior guidance of $695 million to $745 million.
Excluding net non-recurring acquisition items of approximately $120 million we expect free cash flow of $815 million to $865 million unchanged from our prior guidance.
Now I will turn the call back over to Dave before we take questions.
Thank you Glenn.
At this time I would like to comment on our announcement this morning that Joe Herring will retire at the end of this month and that Deborah Keller will succeed Joe as Chief Executive Officer of Covance.
First I would like to thank Joe for his leadership which helped make Covance the respected drug development organization that it is today as well as the critical role he played during the merger and integration.
During Joe’s tenure as CEO he successfully steered Covance through periods of strong growth and volatility.
He led the expansion of Covance’s drug development offerings and the informatics capabilities and he remained steadfast in his dedication to the core principles of Covance people process clients and science.
I have great personal respect for Joe and I thank him for his many contributions to Covance.
We all wish Joe well in his planned retirement.
I am very pleased that Deb has accepted our offer to succeed Joe.
Deb has been with Covance for 25 years most recently serving as Executive Vice President and Group President of Covance R&amp;D Laboratories where she led an organization of more than 6000 employees at 18 facilities across the globe that generated nearly two thirds of Covance’s revenue.
She’s a terrific leader who is well respected by our employees and clients with a clear commitment to bringing innovative new medicines to patients.
Deb is absolutely the right candidate for this important role and she distinguished herself during our succession process in which we considered both internal and external candidates.
Given the strong working relationship that Deb and I have developed I am confident that the leadership transition will be seamless.
This concludes our formal remarks and we are now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby of Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Dave or Glenn why the change in how you are thinking about the volume numbers I see you break out the BeaconLBS if I were a Florida United member left the sample prior to Beacon versus now is there a different revenue model here that why you call this out separately? Bob good morning it’s Dave.
So the revenue model for BeaconLBS is that there is a payment who are all lab services that are delivered in the market to BeaconLBS some of that lab services will go through LabCorp some of that will go through the other network labs.
The reason that we broke out 1.1% contribution is that is the revenue that BeaconLBS received that essentially as pass through to other network participants whereas the revenue the BeaconLBS receives that is take the LabCorp is reported in the diagnostics volume.
So as we included essentially the pass through revenue in the -- in our volume numbers it would have given you with distorted perspective on either volume or price wherever we put it and that’s why you see it separately.
I got you I got you that makes a lot of sense then.
Just in [indiscernible] deal pipeline I see you are back to doing talk in so you can comment on the kinds of plans you are working out in the large sector and possibly outside the lab sector? Yes so in the lab sector that the pipeline is very robust we are looking at wide variety of potential acquisition opportunities always thinking it’s -- as we’ve said many times about broadening the esoteric testing menu broadening our geographic footprint and anything else would be important from a strategic perspective.
On the Covance side we are looking at a variety of potential acquisitions that could either complement some of the existing businesses support continued data innovation efforts or otherwise round out the capabilities that we have and that we are committed to continuing to invest to grow.
That’s great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Cherny of Evercore your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
So first Glenn for you quick question just and clarify the moving pieces on the guidance I heard you talk about that performance in the quarter and also the adjustment on the depreciation line by my math if you leave the looks like your expectations for tax rate as well as [indiscernible] the implied share count I want to just -- can you please confirm those two numbers? Yes the share count should still be the -- roughly called 100 million shares outstanding for the year or so no change there.
The tax rate we did have an estimate out before of around 35% we moved it up to around 36% consistent with what we saw in the second quarter and that was just based upon a mix of geographic earnings if you will little higher tax rate in the U.S.
So those were the only changes there.
And then for the guidance obviously we’ve taken it up we’ve also narrowed it even with the six months left to go so that the midpoint if you will of our guidance is now around $0.15 higher than what we would have shared in our prior guidance due to that performance we have in the quarter our outlook for the year as well as the benefit that we get for lower depreciation expense with -- doing our purchase priced account.
Now appreciate that you are just get to the earnings power and then I guess Dave and maybe Joe Deborah if you want to pine you obviously I think relative to your expectations you’ve -- are hoping the clinical business perform a little better you talked about focusing on this scenario to reestablish growth can you maybe talk about some of the specific focuses that you are putting in place to ensure that you can get a better close and some of those wins and get the order rate at the level that you would prefer? Yes Michael thanks for the question.
First let me say that from an overall order perspective central labs in the first six months of 2015 have all time record orders as you think about the two companies coming together where there is integration and an overlap at central labs and the clients are pouring volume in and kids going out of the door and kids coming back in or even starting to pick up during seasonally saw summer months which is is how that business generally closed and early development which has been a business that we’ve been trying to restore those two it was actually the fact just going to be part of the portfolio we have margin expansion and even during the most recent weeks and months which is seasonally saw orders are very strong.
Clinical on the other hand had orders ramping to the end of last year but in the first six months of this year orders were softer and the backlog conversion has not been as fast as we would have hoped.
One area where we think we can definitely improve it’s in the small and midsize clients we’ve recognized that early in the year we have added a dozen sales people and in fact in the second quarter proposals in Phase 2 3 clinical were actually up a little more than 25% sequentially.
So the actions we are taking are already making an impact at least some proposals and hopefully that flows through as to orders and eventually as revenue.
The other item is that we have been very aggressively [indiscernible] Dave around the globe and introducing him to our clients CEOs Head of R&amp;D and the person with the longest relationship whether it’s me or Dave or a few other folks have been introducing Dave and he has played very very well our clients are not accustomed to see and someone who has a database with 17 million patients technology like the BeaconLBS we talked about to bring both to drug development investigator site selection patient identification as well as new tools on the informatics side that we have been working on that Dave is totally up to speed on.
So I guess my final comment there Michael is did the Phase 2 3 clinical market is very strong I think you will see as our competitors continue to release results the success that our clients are having in their pipeline as of late it’s a healthy market that we are serving and frankly the combination of Covance and LabCorp bring a tremendous set of tools that will enable us to win and in the recent industry surveys not ours but ones done by so called analyst clients repeatedly say they are actually more willing to work with Covance post merger than before because of similar things that I mentioned.
So we are working on it.
Great appreciate the color and Joe good luck on your retirement.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill of JP Morgan your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks very much and good morning.
Joe just a follow up on that can you maybe just [indiscernible] industry for a month time to just understand your comment around orders sharpening and inflow conversion isn’t the market more competitive do you just -- did you expect this to come in overtime how should we think about that? Yes Lisa thank you for your question I mean – give you what maybe sort of the new answered answer but we have a number of large clients who just happen to have portfolios that are a little bit slower as we go right now.
For example in central labs we have a number of so source clients who plays every stick of their central labs work with us and every year for the last seven years we’ve had a different largest client and it’s not because we’ve lost work or gain work it’s more competitive it’s just how the pipeline flows and we have a couple of clients who are spending a tremendous amount in the launches and a little less in Phase 2 3 clinical but they have a strong early clinical pipeline that will bring new volume hopefully in the coming quarters and into next year.
So it’s sort of the vague reason of how former pipelines go and just been little bit softer for us but again I think the effort in small to mid clients as well as the differentiating tools that we are bringing position us to do well there and again the market is strong.
And Lisa it’s Dave just add a little color to that when we talk about slower than typical revenue conversion this has to deal with the complexity of studies the fact that there maybe other modality such as imaging included in the study that has to be coordinated and patient visit.
So it's not that – it's not that the studies aren't starting it's just that they are taking longer from the placing of the order to the actual beginning of completion of recruitment beginning of patient visits and that's – I think that's characteristics across all of the clinical businesses that comparable that we are seeing in the market.
And so based on what we saw on the first and second quarter Dave or Glenn can you just talk about that the updated guidance around Covance and how conservative you feel that is as we move towards the back half of the year? Sure Lisa.
Obviously while we have taken down the revenue guidance of Covance Drug Development it's still a growth rate I think in the midpoint on constant currency we are still up around 2.7%.
As Joe spoke to I believe earlier we have really seen good growth in early development and the central labs and that remains unchanged where we saw the lower expectations for growth was really in the clinical business and again we talked about it or Dave just mentioned that the slower than expected revenue conversion as well as little bit softer on the order side however we feel pretty good about the outlook that we have now in part because that one part of the business that generated the lower than expected revenues the new orders that were getting now effectively are going to impact 2016 and beyond.
So we do expect and the year what's embedded in our outlook is growth across all the main business lines of Covance year-over-year all be it currently a little bit lower than what we had originally envisioned.
I guess on the positive side while we have seen a reduction in the revenue outlook and in the enterprise our top line revenue outlook continues to be roughly where it was actually it's up slightly because of the tuck-in acquisitions and as you saw we have also – obviously also taken up the leverage as we moved up the earnings per share guidance as well.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks Glenn.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jack Meehan of Barclays Capital.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks and good morning.
I just want to start and ask about the genomic testing in the quarter and how much of a contributor that was the better pricing and then just any areas of the growth that you could highlight there? Jack this is Jay Boyle.
Thank you for the question.
We have seen growth in both the genomics and esoteric business that has helped drive our revenue per session for the quarter that we are really pleased with.
We expect that to continue as we move into the back half of the year.
And hope to continue to see that kind of growth and did you ask the second question I am sorry I missed it.
Yes just maybe any areas that you could highlight within that or if you thought it was more broad based across the portfolio there? Yes you hit the narrow and ahead we have had – we are very pleased with obviously our volume growth and across both the core and the esoteric businesses and we expect that outlook continuing.
I do really missed this point in that mentioning that our team has done a terrific job this is the best of several quarters where we have had significant organic volume growth and volume growth across the board and it is in the esoteric genomic and also in the core area and has helped to give us the price that we have experienced this quarter.
Yes great and then just as a last one on the commentary around M&amp;A just with tuck-in deals there are any different thoughts around the way you think about leverage through your end and then just whether any of this was being driven by some of the regulatory and certainty out there.
Thanks.
Jack it's Dave.
Good morning.
I am not sure what's driving the pipeline and it would be hard to give any kind of reasonable speculation.
I will say in terms of our focus and perspective we continue to be focused on the same basic priorities as I mentioned which is the esoteric test menu and this strategic footprint and other potential strategic opportunities [indiscernible].
In terms of the leverage we have not changed our perspective which is we need to de-lever.
We paid debts this quarter but at the same time we did a couple of tuck-ins because they were attractive opportunities and you can expect to see the same from us going forward while for paying more debts and we are doing tuck-in acquisitions.
We will continue to de-lever and as Glenn said in his prepared comments that debt to EBITDA was 3.6 in the quarter so we have already started de-levering from where we were post close.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Thank you.
Dave I wanted to ask another question on Covance if I may if we look back 90 days ago when you last offered guidance for the year and updated your views on the business can you walk us through sort of what your assumptions were then and what changed during the quarter because I think in context to your comments around the revenue conversion and the complexity of studies but some more later items I would assume that there were lot of the studies who were working on you knew that they were going to be flat so I am trying to figure out what led to sort of this [revised] due of 90 days later.
Isaac its Dave.
Obviously it's the time that we updated the Covance revenue guidance.
We thought that we had very good visibility in the second half of the year.
I would say we did have very good visibility in the second half of the year in early development and in central labs.
In the clinical business certain parts of the clinical business the orders burn relatively quickly and we came up little short there from what we thought that we were going to accomplish in the quarter which has an impact for the balance of the year and that's the reason why we've adjusted the guidance.
Obviously from my perspective and for the management team perspective we're happy about it but we have made the commitment as Joe said for even earlier in the year to invest in the growth of the clinical business and to take the steps necessary to put it back on track.
Great.
And if we just sort of think about your guidance for this year at this point in second quarter is it fair to say that your outlook is perhaps more conservative for the year than it would have been 90 days ago? Thank you.
No.
I don’t think so at all.
I think it was $0.15 raised in the low-end of which greater than 10 is the depreciation but the rest is due to be in our fourth projected forecast for the rest of the year.
Signals there we feel that the rest of the year is going to be strong.
Obviously as we have said on many occasions the guidance encompasses a wide range of outcomes but I wouldn’t describe it as either more conservative or more aggressive than what we've previously head out.
Yes.
Keep in mind Isaac that the Covance business is a little more volatile than and less predictable than the historic lab core businesses.
But in the second quarter we delivered sequential revenue growth of 20 million call it and sequential operating margin of nearly 20 million.
So better than expected.
So we'll fight on from here.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Gary Lieberman of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for taking the question.
Maybe on the clinical lab business your organic volume growth was substantially stronger than some of your competitors.
Do you think you're taking share or is something else going on? Yes Gary this is Jay.
Hard to determine whether we're actually taking share or not but certainly our results speaks for themselves.
It's as I mentioned earlier it's across the board and they talked about the coordinated effort earlier.
It's a credit to our sales leadership and then leadership in our divisions where they're just totally focused on growth.
We have a terrific hospital and manage care team that bring deals onboard which pave the way.
So we're really pleased about the share that we are capturing.
And Gary this is Dave.
Quick follow-up on that.
Obviously we've talked about the fact that we've won a couple of contracts last year.
Those are -- had started to annualize and will fully annualize in the next quarter.
So again I think the organic volume growth is very strong.
You can reach your own conclusions about taking share but we're continuing to see strong organic volume growth through the beginning of the annualization of the business wins.
Okay.
And then maybe just any updated thoughts on the PAMA study and what you're thinking at this point? I think the only thing I can do is refer you to the comments that more cards being made at the CMS clinical lab meeting with respect to the timing.
I emphasize again as I said I think on the last call this is a very complex task for CMS.
There are a lot of data points there is a lot of information that they're trying to gather.
They're trying to do it in a responsible way that's fair to the industry and also to the payer.
We continue to be optimistic about the outcome and to take a -- we hope a positive and supportive approach to what CMS is trying to do.
But any -- have your thoughts changed on the timing.
Do you still expect or do you think it gets pushed off for years on? Well I think they've said the timing of the rule is uncertain and so what we can do is go by what they said which is the timing of the rule is uncertain and it will be up to them to determine what that means with respect to implementation.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Yes hi.
Thank you and good morning.
First question is around lab volume.
Dave last quarter I think you sounded a little bit more cautious and just volume trend in second half due to these contracts that are annualizing.
Today you guys grace second half revenue expectations for the diagnostic business.
So when you think about what is done today what has changed what is adding to your confidence and what are the dockets that are driving this bit of outlook for the second half? Hi Ricky.
This is Glenn.
Maybe at least I can start just a kind of level set that.
One obviously we have been consistently generating good volume.
And as Dave commented the annualization of the revenue from the new contracts really you'll see in the second half of the year.
So we've benefitted in the first half.
The other thing that will benefit in the second half obviously will be the tuck-in acquisitions that we have been doing as well as the BeaconLBS.
That will be on for a full half versus the ACLA partial part of the first half of this year.
So consistent still strong good volume growth but again tougher comps year-over-year when you just take it back to the basic organic diagnostics business.
Okay.
And Dave do you have any additional comments on that or should I move on to my Covance questions? No.
I think Glenn has summarized it well.
Volume has been strong.
We have BeaconLBS contributing to revenue which again is part of the overall volume perspective.
I don’t think a whole lot has changed in the outlook Ricky.
I think as you get further end of the year you have greater visibility and where you're going to come out.
And as we get greater visibility into where we come out we adjust the expectations accordingly.
Okay.
Then on the Covance side.
Obviously you were hearing that early stage is doing better.
Lilly contract is a big part I think of that segment.
So can you just help us think through that contract if I'm not mistaken it was a 10-year contract.
So can you just confirm the term of this contract when she will be thinking about the end date and what percent of the revenues and what type of trends are we seeing from that business? Yes.
Ricky it’s Joe.
I think you're talking about the Lilly agreement and that goes through 2019.
The agreement continues to perform well and above the expectations and that's clearly in account that we've had Dave in.
It's in really good shape.
I think if you just take a step back the fact that early development continues to see mid-to-higher single-digit revenue growth margin expansion capacity filling as well as our competitors doing well.
And biotech funding is very constructive to the story.
Obviously central labs is the largest division of Covance and it's the most profitable.
To see record orders and kits out and kits coming in sort of building up tail wins for later in the year and certainly for 2016 is very encouraging.
So Dave who led the recovery of early development now has the whole enchilada and of course the great business that is central lab has been her baby.
So she can't wait to get her teeth into clinical as well as her arms around the whole thing and bring her years and years of experience to the company fully to bear.
So Joe given kind of like the mix that you're seeing in central lab do you feel comfortable with potential opportunity to even increase margin on that segment because I noticed in the past we thought that maybe we've seen very nice margin expansion where tap it.
So given what you are seeing now coming through are you more bullish on the margin opportunity there? Well let me say this in my 18 and half years with the company I have proven one thing for sure and that is that I cannot forecast central lab.
Over the longer period of the time it grows roughly 10%.
I am very very confident that we are in the early stages of accelerated growth in central labs.
Our competitive position has improved.
I think some -- we got a couple of competitors that are struggling.
I think our clients like the incremental benefit of having the esoteric volume from lab core within the portfolio.
And as you pointed out Ricky there is good drop through on additional central lab volume.
So I think as we look towards the end of the year and in 2016 central lab is very constructive and I guess I would say Covance is stronger than ever in central lab.
And Ricky it's Dave.
Just one additional comment there what Joe touched on as we add more genomic and esoteric capabilities to the Covance central lab business and particularly as we see great client interest in next gen sequencing exome capabilities that the lab core or central lab business is bringing that will have a natural positive effect on both pricing mix and margin in the central lab business.
Finally Ricky we did add another self-source central lab client in the second quarter as well which as they ramp-up will be helpful.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Amanda Murphy of William Blair.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
I had a couple more on Covance if I may? Joe and Dave I think another at your row today had talked about the strong RFP growth that I am wondering in another you've made an improvement.
They know its knocking on that wall since last second quarter but have you seen any change there over the past few weeks and also did you talk about cancellation made at all from last quarter? Well I guess proposal volume being up 25% sequentially is a very good factoid.
It's early in the quarter to talk about what will translate into orders but we are much more out there and have better coverage.
So in terms of cancellation rates in clinical keep in mind we were reporting net orders and so they are net of cancellations and we tend to just color cancellations.
They were lower than historical run-rate in the first quarter and sort of at the historical run-rate in the second quarter.
Okay got it.
And then I guess it's the longer term question so you've obviously provided some revenue synergy target at a high level and then you also talked about to your point the RFP flow etcetera.
So just thinking about how we should be tracking your progress going forward is there a certain book-to-bill number that you would consider to be a successful number going forward and to over what timeframe should we be looking for that that is in context of all the demand commentary that you laid out so far? Amanda its Dave.
I don't think it would be reasonable to point to one specific number and say that's a target or that's a goal or that represents success.
I think what we'll be able to do over time is point to as we have specific instances of winning business due to the combination of the companion diagnostics in particular which we are very enthusiastic about and tell you how much that's contributed against the $300 million target.
So I think those will be better indicators to look for than one single number like the book-to-bill or a revenue growth rate.
I would though Amanda remind you that during the really busy time of the acquisition of Covance we posted two consecutive record order quarters; fourth quarter was an all-time record the first quarter was an all-time record.
In the second quarter we had a couple of large clinical studies that we expected to win that pushed out the second quarter into the third quarter.
So we had a book-to-bill of 1.15 which is respectable.
It's not the record that we had in Q3 and Q4.
But also keep in mind that roughly a third of our revenue is in the pre-clinical area where a book-to-bill of 1.0 to 1 is sort of which target.
So 1.15 for us compared to a predominately clinical company we translate into something much more like maybe 1.25 to 1.
So good orders not as great as they were the last two quarters but we are out there fighting.
Got it.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of A.J.
Rice of UBS.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Thanks.
Hello everybody.
I guess prior to the merger from the Covance side I think it was publicly discussed that Sanofi was restructuring it's -- planning to restructure its partnership with Covance.
I haven't heard a lot of discussion about that since the merger.
Can you just update us is that restructuring still likely to happen later this year and how would that impact the back half guidance or next year's guidance is that reflected in there? Yes thanks for the question.
First of all all of this is in our [S4 dial] filings and it's in all the forecast that we've talked about.
There's two parts.
The larger part of the agreement at a -- and that is the services agreement Sanofi volume with Covance's 5x prior to what we had before we did the agreement.
The asset agreement were for the two specific sites and our continued expectations is that agreement will not be renewed but every day is sort of something new.
That's about roughly about $70 million a year but again all of that's fully disclosed.
It's in all of our forecast and in all the expectations.
Okay and that's presumably in the guidance that the consolidated companies are offering out as well.
Yes.
Yes it is.
Okay.
Then just on the lab side maybe just Dave or anyone else want to comment.
It's been on the news lately the idea of consumers being able to drive their own test.
There's been changes in Arizona to allow at least some consumer making the decision to ask for test directly I don't know if I've ever heard you guys express a view on that.
You guys have a position on whether you're supportive of that or not and what you think the implications would be? A.
J.
its Dave.
We agree in the first instance that consumer engagement is extremely important in their own responsibility for healthcare and for years we pushed.
When I came to this company and most states it was illegal for consumers to get their own lab results without getting permission from their doctor.
We push for years and finally AJ just responded with the regulation to allow that.
So consumer engagement is extremely important.
We do need to think about the consequences of consumer self-ordering one of which is the patient doesn't understand the test result.
Two is the patient decides to start self-treating now that they've got the lab test result.
So we've said and we've been open about we will have a direct consumer business under the lab core brand by the end of the year.
We are not going to do it in a way that disintermediates positions we are going to do it in a responsible and a compliant way.
And we are very sensitive to the importance of physician interpretation of [test] as well as the need to combine individual test results with other signs and symptoms of disease.
So I think we've been clear in that position and again we continue to support consumer engagement but in a responsible and compliant and measured way.
Okay.
Alright.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Francis of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Just real quick though with Joe leaving the company Dave I was wondering if as you guys get deeper into the integration process for the business is if there is any other contemplated changes to the leadership team or otherwise on either side of the business? Thanks.
Obviously we've had some leadership transition at Covance already all of which was planned as part of the merger synergies.
We feel like we've got a strong leadership team in place.
Deb was going to be a terrific leader.
I am sure overtime that she will want to make some tweaks to her team as every CEO does but there is nothing planned in terms of major leadership or major structural changes.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Whit Mayo of Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Hey thanks.
I think you guys called out 15 million of synergies with Covance.
Was that all realized in the second quarter or is that a year-to-date number? That was realized in the second quarter at current run rate.
Okay great.
Did you realize any in the first quarter or is it fairly immaterial at that point? This is on the -- I guess on the Covance side we did around five in the first quarter call it 10 in the second and again with the target this year of 35.
So obviously we are delivering solidly on our expectations but the longer term over the three years on a cost savings standpoint it was going to be call it a 100 million and again we are on track for that.
Yes got it.
And my last question Dave I think I have heard you say in your prepared remarks that Covance is having a number of conversations with various former customers about some preferred partner relationship or something along those lines.
Can you just elaborate a little bit more on that and is that something that's actually new? Well the conversations of that for why the relationships are not new.
I think what's new is the range of capabilities that we bring to the table.
Now Covance has always had the unique position in the drug development business of having the combination of early clinical and central lab.
But I think that the lab core capabilities the incremental lab capabilities the data the companion diagnostics expertise that compliments with Covance has and obviously the scale and infrastructure for some of the priorities around real world evidence these are very very interesting to our clients.
Glenn and I have in fact done several clients visits over the past two weeks and there is a new level of interest about -- first of all I want to understand the rationale for the merger then I want to understand how can that lead to a broader scientific collaboration how can that lead to broader capabilities collaboration how can that lead to execution of some of their priorities.
And so we're enthusiastic about the opportunity to grow some of these existing relationships and add some new ones.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer period.
I would like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
We appreciate your time this morning and wish you a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Have a great -- rest of your day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings’ Third Quarter 2015 conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question and answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
If anyone should require assistance please press star then zero on your touchtone telephone.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to your host Paul Surdez Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to LabCorp’ third quarter 2015 conference call.
As detailed in today’s press release there will be a replay of this conference call available via telephone and internet.
With me today are Dave King Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Glenn Eisenberg Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; James Boyle CEO of LabCorp Diagnostics and Deborah Keller CEO of Covance Drug Development.
In addition to our press release we also filed a Form 8-K this morning that includes additional financial information.
Both are available in the Investor Relations section of our website at <a href="http://www.labcorps.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.</u><u>LabCorp</u><u>.com</u></a> and include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today’s call to GAAP.
Finally we are making forward-looking statements during today’s call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results the implementation of our business strategy and the ongoing benefits from acquisitions.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect our financial results.
Some of these factors are set forth and detailed in our 2014 10-K and subsequent filings with the SEC.
We have no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Dave King.
Thank you Paul and good morning.
LabCorp had another impressive quarter in which we delivered excellent revenue growth double-digit earnings growth and solid operating and free cash flow.
Both LabCorp Diagnostics and Covance Drug Development turned in strong performances and Glenn will update you on these results in a few moments I would like to spend my time today updating you on our progress towards the strategic and financial objectives we set out for our combined companies following our transformative acquisition of Covance.
In January we announced our Wave 1 priorities for our combined companies: use of data to improve trial recruitment leadership in companion diagnostics and innovation in the use of real-world evidence.
We set a goal of $150 million in incremental revenue by the end of 2018 for use of data $100 million for companion diagnostics and $50 million for real world evidence.
Now eight months after closing I would like to tell you where we stand with these initiatives.
First we continue to feature the utility of our patient database as a competitive differentiator.
We have been awarded four major pieces of business by adding LabCorp data to Covance proposals and these wins have contributed nearly $100 million in new orders to our backlog.
In tracking this figure we include only awards in which the sponsor specifically identified LabCorp’ data as influencing the selection of its CRO partner.
We continue to receive multiple requests for our patient data from large and emerging pharma customers seeking insights into clinical and commercial questions across multiple therapeutic areas.
Sponsor awareness of our unique capability is increasing and we are well on our way to achieving $150 million in incremental revenue by 2018.
Second we continue to advance our industry leadership in the development and commercialization of companion diagnostics.
Last month we again demonstrated that leadership in both development and commercialization as we announced the launch of two innovative diagnostic assays linked to novel immuno-oncology drugs.
Our central laboratory was the exclusive provider of testing in registration trials that supported the regulatory approval of these tests.
We have been involved in the development and launch of approximately 70% of all companion diagnostics since inception in 1998 and we are actively working on a sizeable number of ongoing companion diagnostic programs in this increasingly important category of biopharma research and development.
New orders have remained strong since the acquisition with programs expanding beyond oncology and I am confident in our ability to generate $100 million in incremental revenue in this area by 2018.
Third in addition to our unique combination of high-end laboratory testing and global drug development capabilities we possess enormous assets around diagnostic information.
This includes our direct connection to patients over 15 billion test results demographic information an extensive database of investigators and trial sites and the largest cohort of genetic counselors in the industry.
Supported by our technology-enabled solutions we are ideally positioned to create large databases facilitate patient access to trials gather real-world evidence of disease state prevalence and market size provide interpretation of diagnostic results and combine patient site and disease state information into innovative new value creators.
Customer response to these real-world evidence capabilities has been strongly positive and we look forward to generating at least $50 million of new revenue in this category by 2018.
Fourth Covance’s central lab business has expanded and further differentiated its capabilities through the addition of LabCorp’ genomic genetic and anatomic pathology testing.
Because of our unrivaled combination of test menu quality clinical and scientific expertise we continue to strengthen our market-leading position and deliver strong results.
In short the strategic theses of our combination are rapidly translating to financial success and the proof of the growth opportunity for our combined company is increasingly compelling.
While I am speaking about innovation I will provide an update on BeaconLBS.
BeaconLBS continues to perform well contributing $18 million or 1.2% to our organic revenue growth in the quarter although in this pilot phase it remains a drag on overall margin.
In addition the BeaconLBS team’s goal of delivering the right test to the right patient at the right time through the highest quality laboratory network is rapidly being realized.
In barely six months of full implementation utilization trend in the pilot market has improved and adherence to testing guidelines has increased.
Out-of-network lab spend has declined leading to a decline in overall lab spend for our partner.
We are optimistic that this solid evidence of achievement will continue and will expand the BeaconLBS opportunity.
To close I would like to thank all of our people around their globe.
Their dedication to our strategic priorities during this period of exciting transformation is one of the company’s combined greatest strengths.
Their commitment to delivering world-class diagnostic information bringing innovative new drugs to market faster and using information to change the way care is delivered is inspiring and it is gratifying to see this commitment translate to concrete results on so many fronts.
As the world’s largest laboratory and leading healthcare diagnostics company we are excited about and well positioned for the future.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Glenn.
Thank you Dave.
I’m going to start my comments with a review of our consolidated third quarter results followed by a discussion of our LabCorp Diagnostics and Covance Drug Development segments and then conclude with an update on our 2015 guidance.
Revenue for the quarter was $2.3 billion an increase of 46% over last year.
The acquisition of Covance contributed $647 million during the quarter driving 42% year-over-year revenue growth.
The other 5% was driven by solid organic volume growth across both core and esoteric testing as well as benefits from BeaconLBS price mix and tuck-in acquisitions that were partially offset by currency.
Gross profit for the quarter $763 million or 33.6% of revenue compared to $571 million or 36.8% last year.
The increase in gross profit was due primarily to the acquisition of Covance as well as organic volume price mix and productivity partially offset by personnel costs.
Personnel costs were up due to annual merit increases and normal headcount additions in support of our top line growth.
The decline in gross margin was primarily due to the mix impact of Covance.
Excluding Covance gross margin would have been 36.7% a decrease of 10 basis points versus last year.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was $383 million or 16.9% of revenue compared to $306 million or 19.7% last year.
Excluding special charges of $5 million related to the acquisition of Covance SG&amp;A in the quarter was $377 million or 16.6% of revenue a 270 basis point reduction versus last year’s adjusted SG&amp;A.
The increase in SG&amp;A was primarily due to Covance and personnel costs partially offset by Project LaunchPad savings.
The favorable reduction in SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue benefited from Covance’s lower SG&amp;A rate and the reduction in our bad debt rate.
Excluding Covance and special charges SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue would have been 18.7% an improvement of 60 basis points over last year.
During the quarter we recorded $32 million of restructuring charges and special items primarily relating to severance and facility-related costs.
Amortization expense for the quarter was $47 million up from $18 million a year ago due to the impact of acquisitions.
Operating income for the quarter was $307 million or 13.5% of revenue compared to $241 million or 15.6% last year.
Excluding amortization and restructuring of special items of $79 million adjusted operating income was $386 million or 17% of revenue compared to $271 million or 17.5% last year.
Excluding the mix impact from Covance adjusted operating margin would have been 18% an increase of 50 basis points over last year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $56 million compared to $26 million last year.
The increase was due to higher debt balances following the acquisition of Covance.
The tax rate for the quarter was 38.9% higher than last year’s 37.2% rate due to the taxable nature of certain restructuring charges.
Excluding special charges and amortization the adjusted tax rate for the quarter was 35.5% in line with our expectations.
As a result net earnings for the quarter were $153 million or $1.49 per diluted share compared to $137 million or $1.59 per share last year.
Excluding amortization restructuring and other special items adjusted EPS was $2.07 in the quarter up 15% from $1.80 last year.
During the quarter operating cash flow was $288 million compared to $176 million last year with the increase due to the acquisition of Covance as well as improved earnings.
Capital expenditures totaled $68 million up from $53 million last year due to Covance.
As a result free cash flow was $220 million compared to $123 million last year.
At quarter-end our cash balance was $713 million compared to $619 million at the end of the second quarter.
Total debt was approximately $6.7 billion and our liquidity was approximately $1.7 billion consisting of cash and available credit.
During the quarter we invested $8 million in acquisitions and paid down $125 million of debt reducing the company’s leverage to 3.4 times net debt to last 12 months pro forma EBITDA.
Now I’ll review our segment performance.
For comparative purposes segment results are presented on a pro forma basis for all periods as if the acquisition of Covance closed on January 1 2014 and exclude amortization restructuring special items and unallocated corporate expenses.
Reconciliations of segment results to historically reported results are included in today’s press release and the current report filed today on Form 8-K.
Now I’ll review the performance of LabCorp Diagnostics.
Revenue for the quarter was $1.6 billion an increase of 4.8% over last year.
The increase in revenue was the result of organic volume growth measured by requisitions BeaconLBS price mix and tuck-in acquisitions partially offset by currency.
The increase in revenue of 4.8% includes the benefit from Beacon LBS of 1.2% and an unfavorable foreign currency translation of 1%.
Total volume increased by 2.9% of which organic volume was 2.3% and acquisition volume was 0.6%.
Revenue per requisition increased by 1.7% benefiting from price and mix as well as tuck-in acquisitions that have an overall revenue per requisition higher than the segment average.
LabCorp Diagnostics adjusted operating income for the quarter was $330 million or 20.6% of revenue compared to $306 million or 20% last year.
The increase was primarily due to volume price mix and productivity partially offset by personnel costs and currency.
Improvement in productivity was driven by Project LaunchPad which delivered approximately $20 million of net savings during the quarter bringing our year-to-date total to $45 million.
We remain on track to achieve our goal of $150 million in savings over the three-year period ending 2017.
Now I’ll review the performance of Covance Drug Development.
Revenue for the quarter was $669 million an increase of 2.6% over last year.
The stronger U.S.
dollar negatively impacted revenue growth by approximately 370 basis points.
On a constant currency basis revenue increased 6.3% over last year led by strong volume in the central lab and early development businesses while the growth rate in the clinical business improved sequentially from the second quarter.
Adjusted operating income was $97 million or 14.5% of revenue compared to $88 million or 13.6% last year.
The increase in operating income and margin was primarily due to volume and cost synergies partially offset by personnel costs and mix.
Personnel costs increased in part due to added headcount in the clinical business in advance of the initiation of awarded projects.
We captured approximately $15 million of cost synergies during the quarter bringing our year-to-date total to $30 million.
We remain on track to achieve our goal of $100 million in savings over the three-year period ending 2017.
Net orders during the quarter were $811 million representing a net book-to-bill of 1.21 while backlog at quarter end was $6.7 billion.
Now I’ll update our 2015 guidance.
We expect revenue growth of approximately 41% inclusive of Covance as of February 19 after the impact of approximately 220 basis points of negative currency.
We have assumed that foreign exchange rates stay at September 30 2015 levels for the remainder of the year.
We expect LabCorp Diagnostics to grow 4.5 to 5.5% in 2015 after the impact of approximately 90 basis points of negative currency.
This is an increase from our prior guidance of 3.5 to 5.5% primarily due to continued strong organic growth.
Covance Drug Development’s net revenue is expected to be in the range of minus-0.5% to plus-0.5% versus full-year 2014 after the impact of approximately 350 basis points of negative currency.
This is an increase from our prior guidance of minus-1.5% to plus-0.5%.
We expect 2015 adjusted EPS of $7.80 to $7.95 as we’ve narrowed the range from our prior guidance of $7.75 to $8.
We expect operating cash flow in 2015 to be $970 million to $995 million versus our prior guidance of $990 million to $1.015 billion and capital expenditures to be $250 million to $275 million versus prior guidance of $270 million to $295 million.
As a result free cash flow remains unchanged from our prior guidance of $695 million to $745 million.
Excluding net non-recurring acquisition items of approximately $120 million we expect free cash flow of $815 million to $865 million unchanged from our prior guidance.
This concludes our formal remarks and we’ll now take questions.
Operator? [Operator instructions] Our first question comes from Bill Bonello with Craig Hallum.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
On the lab side of the business just want to probe a bit more about the movements that we saw in volume and price growth.
Can you perhaps give us some sense of how much those growth rates were affected? You talked about some new business wins that were going to annualize during the quarter and maybe how much that impacted the volume growth and if it had a corresponding impact on the price and then maybe just any thoughts about where you would think of volume and price maybe shaking out as we look forward from here.
Hey Bill this is Jay Boyle.
How are you? Great.
I want to touch on the volume and Glenn will take the price.
As you noted in some of our prior calls we have indicated that we expected to see a little bit of a downward trend on our year-over-year organic growth beat and that is exactly what’s happened as we’ve annualized the two contracts that you mentioned.
However we are seeing sequential volume growth quarter to quarter and we’re very pleased with the 2.3% organic volume the 2.9% overall.
So that’s consistent with what we thought would happen and again we’re pleased with the result.
Glenn you want to talk about the price? Sure.
Good morning Bill.
Overall needless to say we feel we had a good quarter from both of our businesses but in the diagnostics business in particular the strong growth in organic revenue and volume that Jay commented as well as obviously our price per requisitions improving nicely as well through the combination of the acquisitions the tuck-in acquisitions that we’ve done at higher price points as well as favorable test mix overall.
But we continue to leverage well in the business and you see that reflected in the improvement in our operating margins.
So would it be safe to say that on the volume side most of the sequential change in the growth rate is attributable to those business wins annualizing? Yes.
Okay and what about on the price side? Would the same thing be true there the increase attributable to that annualizing or were other things driving that? Bill it’s Dave.
No the price impact of the annualization was not material to the overall price.
There were as we mentioned three components to the price growth which was largely driven by mix and then the acquisitions that we completed that were at an average revenue per requisition that was above the overall segment average.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Michael Cherny with Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Congrats on a nice quarter.
Thank you good morning.
So first just on the Covance Drug Development side really nice sequential improvement.
You talked about from what I can see at least improvements in all three key segments.
Is there any unifying factor that drove the improvements or maybe if you can give a little more color within early development versus clinical and central lab kind of what you saw as the key components particularly in areas like central lab where I know you had some issues earlier in the year with more kit mix and stuff that was out of your control versus actual health of the business.
Good morning this is Deborah Keller.
So yes you’re right - all three of our service lines had constant dollar sequential growth this quarter and I would say it was led by central lab which as you said was roughly flat in the first half of the year.
They had a substantial increase in their kit volume which is driving a much strong growth rate in Q3.
Early development also is strong and they had those nice incremental drop-through as well.
So in our central lab back to that we had record level kits both in and out and we had an increase in our testing volume as well.
As far as clinical we had good sequential increased growth rate and strong orders for the quarter.
Great thanks Deb.
Then Dave just one question for you.
Since the last call there’s been a lot of moving pieces in terms of the true value I think of the lab.
Obviously you had the PAMA decision that occurred a few weeks back.
You’ve had a lot of noise around your private upstart competitor and what the actual value proposition they provide is.
Maybe can you use this opportunity now given especially following these results to kind of reestablish what makes LabCorp differentiated versus the rest of the market in terms of delivering service to the end customer? Sure good morning Michael.
You know first of all I’ll just come back to something we’ve been saying for a long time which is there is no healthcare system without laboratory medicine.
We are about 3% of the overall spend.
We drive 70 to 80% of the healthcare decisions.
For those who have ever been to the doctor and not felt well or have taken a child to the doctor who is not feeling well the first question is what do the labs say? So we feel very confident that even in a time of enormous change the lab is always going to be absolutely central to healthcare and to the delivery of healthcare and to patient care.
Running a laboratory business well requires size scale scientific and medical capability and credibility and true innovation.
LabCorp has all of those things.
We have an enormous infrastructure.
We have enormous IT capabilities.
We have a dedicated and highly motivated workforce that the number one thing they think about every day is serving the patient.
We have clinicians and scientists who have been at this company for 10 20 30 40 years.
We have invented laboratory tests that now are standard of care in the market and I challenge anybody else to stand up to those capabilities.
Then on top of it we are the most efficient lowest cost highest quality provider and add in at the back end Michael that we have consistently led in innovation whether it’s 70% of the companion diagnostics whether it’s always having the newest test whether it’s BeaconLBS.
We have consistently been the market leaders in innovation and we will continue to be the market leaders in innovation.
So this is a great business.
We’ve been wise stewards of capital for our shareholders and we look forward to great great opportunity in the diagnostics business in years to come.
Thanks Dave.
Our next question comes from Lisa Gill with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Great thanks very much.
Good morning everyone.
I just wanted to follow up with just a couple quick questions around the Covance side.
Either Dave or Deborah can you maybe talk about two things: one Dave you’re talking about these incremental opportunities that you talked about on the revenue synergy side but how do we think about the trajectory going into next year? I know it might be a little early to give specific guidance but is it reasonable to think that this is kind of a mid-single digit grow or how do I think about this business over the next 12 months? Morning Lisa it’s Dave.
You know I think it is early to give guidance for next year although I applaud you for trying.
I think what I would say is if you look at the historical growth rates in this business in constant currency it’s mid to high single digits and the central lab has years of very strong growth and years of less strong growth.
We said earlier this year when central lab got off to a slow start that we expected it to rebound in the second half and here we are with a very strong rebound at central lab.
Early development the incremental margin on the business is terrific and we’re being very careful about capacity and pricing in that business.
I was really pleased to see the sequential improvement in clinical revenues.
Again we’re not giving guidance but the historical growth rate has been mid to high single digits and that should be a good frame of reference at least to think about how the business ought to be able to perform in the out years.
That’s helpful.
And then Dave you talked about each of the three components of the revenue synergies that you had laid out when you did the transaction.
You talked about patient data and winning but how about on each of the others? Is there anything or revenue numbers you can put around that today for companion diagnostics or diagnostic information? You said you had $15 billion of tests et cetera but is there any way to give us a frame as to where you are on those two components? Well I think in my preliminary comments I mentioned that we feel like we’ve made very good progress and obviously that will be incorporated in the guidance as we give it and it will be incorporated into the overall top line growth.
So I would think about those things as being--they have the potential to be incremental contributors and the question is obviously translating them from orders into revenue and that will be part of what we incorporate into the guidance for next year and the years ahead.
Okay very helpful and congratulations on a nice quarter.
Thank you Lisa.
Our next question comes from Jack Meehan with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks.
Good morning.
I just wanted to start with PAMA and just curious whether you had some initial thoughts from the proposed rule that came out a few weeks ago and then as you go through the comment period today just where are the areas that you see as opportunity to work with CMS.
Good morning Jack it’s Dave.
So this is going to take a couple minutes but I want to give you a comprehensive answer about PAMA.
So let’s step back to why PAMA was enacted.
There was an OIG report that suggested that Medicare pricing was not market competitive with commercial pricing and Congress enacted a statute specifically around the idea of let’s fine out--let’s base Medicare on a market-based price and let’s find out whether Medicare is market-based and if it’s not let’s adjust it.
So that was the purpose of the statute and it was clear in the legislative history it was clear from the floor colloquy between Senator Burr and Hatch it was clear in the letter that they believe that hospitals were an important part of the market to consider.
Now when PAMA came out obviously hospitals were not included and that was extremely disappointing.
I would point out in the first place there was a statutory misconstruction in the regulation because what Congress said was if over 50% of the hospital lab revenue came from the clinical lab fee schedule that it should be included.
What CMS put out was if over 50% of the Medicare revenue came from the CLFS it should be included.
Well as I’ve already pointed out in response to an earlier question and as everybody knows lab is about 3% of the total Medicare spend so it is structurally impossible for lab to be more than 50% of the total Medicare revenue.
The CMS also lumped the lab in with the entire hospital system in doing the calculation which again negated any possibility that the hospitals could be included.
They did that not by using the tax side [indiscernible] and the NPI so from our perspective CMS’ proposed regulation did not faithfully attempt to do what Congress had asked it to do.
Now let me talk specifically about the decision not to include hospitals and why we think that is erroneous.
The week after CMS came out with the explanation of why hospitals were not included the Office of Inspector General released its data brief for 2014.
Medicare paid $7 billion in Part B hospital lab tests - I’m quoting directly from the data brief.
Hospitals received $1.7 billion or 24% of Medicare Part B payments through the clinical lab fee schedule.
So let’s stop right there - hospitals that CMS said are not part of the relevant market received 24% of Medicare Part B clinical lab fee schedule payments.
Physician labs received $1.3 billion or 19% but CMS decided they are part of the market.
Hospitals received 25% of the payments for the top 25 tests which accounted for $4.2 billion of the spend so they received an even higher percentage of the top 25 tests and again CMS decided they were not part of the market.
Furthermore CMS cut the outpatient perspective the OPPS the hospital outpatient perspective payment system by 2% for 2016 and specifically stated in making that cut that it was because $1 billion of lab testing that they thought were going to go through the OPPS in fact went through the clinical lab fee schedule in 2014.
CMS also stated they were reducing the OPPS not to recoup the prior overpayment but to eliminate the future overpayment implying they expect that $1 billion to continue to go through the clinical lab fee schedule.
So this is obviously a concession by CMS that significant hospital lab payments will continue to go through the clinical lab fee schedule and it squares with what the OIG said.
Now go back to what is the market and it’s difficult for me to understand how CMS comes to the conclusion that entities that are receiving 24 25% of the payments are not part of the market.
I also just took a quick opportunity last night because again it’s what is the market to look at the Blue Cross Blue Shield of North Carolina website - this is publicly available data that anybody can see.
A lipid panel one of the top 25 tests Quest and LabCorp price approximately $8 to $10 REX hospital $79 University of North Carolina $93 Duke $102.
The assay of thyroid stimulating hormone - TSH one of the top 25 tests Quest and LabCorp $12 REX Hospital $66 University of North Carolina $86 Duke $98.
That is the competitive market and that is what Congress asked CMS to look at to determine if Medicare pricing was market-based.
Again it’s difficult to understand how CMS concluded that that data is all irrelevant.
Finally I would just point out that the timing that has been imposed here is quite unrealistic.
We’re supposed to start submitting data before the final rule is even completed and CMS is apparently going to analyze that data and put out results in 2017 based on a six-month period even though they stated in the regulation that the year period is what would be preferable.
So obviously it’s a preliminary rule.
I think you can tell from my commentary we have a lot of comments as to the rule that CMS has promulgated but that’s our perspective on the PAMA regulation.
Yes thanks Dave.
That was very well said.
Maybe just one follow-up for Glenn on the lab business give you a little break.
The pricing growth that came through I know some of that was related to the genomic and esoteric volumes coming through.
I was surprised some of that better growth didn’t fall through on the gross margin line so could you--and I know you talked about it being 10 BPs higher year-over-year.
Just any other granularity around that would be great.
Sure Jack.
Overall as you said the gross margin excluding the impact of Covance would have been down around 10 basis points.
Included in that you heard earlier the pilot program that we have at Beacon which Dave commented while it’s a contributor to the revenue that we wouldn’t have had a year ago in its pilot stage is not contributing to profitability so that had a call it a headwind on gross margin so were it not for that our gross margin was favorable.
Again most of the pricing if you will we’ve talked about was from the benefit of the acquisition mix up as well as just overall call it test mix.
But overall we feel we’ve leveraged well.
We’ve leveraged the diagnostic segment in excess of 30% on the incremental revenues and saw 60 basis point improvement in our operating margin so overall we’re getting the benefit of that additional volume as well as our continued productivity improvement and initiative through LaunchPad.
That makes sense.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Robert Willoughby with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Robert if you line is on mute could you please un-mute it? Yes I’m sorry.
Dave can you give us anything you can on the food safety business? You obviously did a deal there but how are you sizing that market the growth opportunity to margin profile and where could that business be three to five years down the line for you? And maybe also just the synergy with the base business if anecdotally you could point us to areas where you have a real advantage growing that business? Sure good morning Bob.
So when we made the acquisition we identified nutritional chemistry and food safety as a growth opportunity because it is a significantly growing market and it’s a global market.
Obviously with the increase in food importation with the increase also in the number of detected concerns about food safety we saw this as a nice opportunity for growth.
So when we looked at the business the market size is substantial.
Obviously it’s not the size of the total lab industry but the market size is substantial - it’s in the billions of dollars of global opportunity.
We look at the margin profile as being attractive and we look at the opportunity around what LabCorp and Covance bring together as there are two aspects of the food safety business.
One is the chemistry side and the other is the microbiology side.
Covance has always had great expertise on the chemistry side; LabCorp obviously from our core lab testing brings a significant amount of expertise on the microbiological capabilities and also on the infrastructure so it’s very important to be close to the customers because the food is sitting waiting to be shipped.
So the combination of infrastructure microbiology and chemistry really positions us we think to take a market leadership position.
On the nutritional side the analysis of ingredients and purity again all of the controversy around organic food genetically modified food what is safe food - this is another nice opportunity for us to grow the business and again it’s a global opportunity.
We actually have a food safety lab in Singapore as well as our large lab in Madison and we’re very very excited about adding International Food Network and the National Food Laboratory to these capabilities.
Can you size your opportunity maybe three to five years out and what kind of spend you need to get there? Is it an expensive build? We have aspirations.
I’m not prepared to talk about them specifically but we have aspirations that this business will be in the nine figures in revenue - hopefully the mid-nine figures but these are just aspirational ideas for our company.
There will be some which we’ll do through acquisitions as we demonstrated we’re ready to do with the Safe Foods transaction and there will be some that we’ll do by organic growth.
I don’t think it’s something where we think about there will be an enormous amount of investment to get there.
Interesting thank you.
Thank you.
As a reminder in the interest of time we ask that you please limit yourself to one question and return to the queue for any additional questions.
Our next question comes from Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thanks guys.
Let me try one question with two parts.
On the capex side you guys tracked a little better than your guidance.
Could you talk a little bit about handicapping the potential for capex to kind of run rate from here? Is there a little bit more potential for that number to come down? And then secondly any updated thoughts on potential for or how you’re thinking about cash returns specifically the potential for a dividend? Thank you.
Hey Isaac this is Glenn Eisenberg.
On the capex side as you know we’re not a very capital intensive company overall and we continue to manage fairly tightly.
We did bring down our guidance for the year based upon the current trend of capital spending that we have and obviously the level of spending is a function of just projects and opportunities that we see including our LaunchPad initiative where we are going through some structural investments.
But overall we’ve been tracking around call it $70 million per quarter and you might see that go up a little bit in the fourth quarter but still tracking at call it around our depreciation level.
As far as the cash returns as you know historically we’ve been a strong supporter of bringing excess cash back to shareholders in the form of share repurchases as opposed to dividends and obviously given the acquisition of Covance and our higher leverage we’re focused now on using some of that cash flow to pay down debt.
But as the board convenes effectively every quarter we do talk about our capital allocation our return of capital back to shareholders.
Dividends is part of the discussion as is share repurchases and we’ll continue to have those discussions and let you know each quarter what we do with our capital.
Got it.
Thanks a bunch.
Our next question comes from Nicholas Jansen with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Hey guys nice job.
I just wanted to get a little bit more detail on the volume in the quarter.
You’ve seen from the hospital companies your largest competitor talk a little bit about some level of market softness maybe in the first half of the quarter.
I just wanted to kind of get your views on the overall market trend and maybe why you’re continuing to capture market share relative to your peer group.
Thank you.
It’s Dave.
I’ll start and then if Jay has anything to add I know we’ll welcome that.
You know I think Jay gave a very precise explanation of why you saw the organic volume decline year-over-year.
We had specifically called that out and identified it.
We had nice sequential volume growth and I attribute it to we have a great leadership team we have a great team of people on the ground and they are executing well.
We’re seeing nice growth in the core business we’re seeing nice growth in the esoteric business.
We’re bringing new tests to market so the only commentary we can give is I think the numbers speak for themselves.
The numbers show that we’re performing very well and that volume continues to grow.
Great.
Our next question comes from Amanda Murphy with William Blair.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning guys.
I just had a quick follow-up question to what Lisa asked earlier.
So again recognizing you’re not giving guidance at this point can you just put your comments in context around that high single digit mid to high single digit growth framework for Covance in context with the Sanofi situation because I think that a 2 to 3% headwind for you guys next year.
So do you still think you can do that mid to high single digit growth on the back of that Sanofi contract situation? Amanda it’s Dave.
You know again we’re not guiding and so when we come out with the guidance we will have all the puts and takes incorporated.
Again what we said is that the historic growth rate is mid to high single digits and Sanofi will be incorporated into whatever guidance we give.
There will be other puts and takes in the businesses as well so I don’t think we should single out any one thing and try to extrapolate what that’s going to mean to the overall guidance.
We’ll give the guidance in February when we give the guidance and we look forward to being--to over time seeing Covance achieve the growth rates that the industry historically has turned in.
Amanda maybe I’ll just add one thing just relative to this year - and again won’t comment or we can annualize for next year.
But if you just wanted to isolate on Sanofi you’ll obviously be able to get into our implied guidance in the fourth quarter for Covance overall which is continued good year-over-year growth in the business.
That will be impacted by Sanofi as that contract expired at the end of October as you know having around call it a $12 million impact in the fourth quarter so that will impact the growth rate if you will by 1.8%.
But obviously we’ve got a lot of other business that’s coming in to replace that but our guidance if you will for the rest of this year is inclusive with not having that contract for the last two months of the year.
Got it very helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ricky Goldwasser from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
This is Zach Sopcak for Ricky.
I wanted to go back to test mix for a second and just ask you used to have a goal - I think it was 45% esoteric testing.
Can you give an update on where you are relative to that and if the better mix was driven by any tests in particular like BRCA or something else that’s longer term sustainable? Zach this is Glenn.
I’ll give you the other ones.
Clearly growing esoteric is one of the main strategies of the company with the new tests that we’re developing and it continues to grow and we’re seeing favorable test mix from that area.
It hasn’t quite gotten to call it the 40% of the company.
It’s still kind of an aspirational goal but it’s moving in the right direction.
This is Dave.
I would say the major drivers of growth in the esoteric category were continued strong performance in new swab BRCA non-invasive prenatal testing.
We actually even in the quarter already started to get orders for the companion diagnostics that we mentioned in the prepared remarks so there was nice progress across the board.
Got it thanks.
And then can I ask you guys on the bad debt improvement? Can you give any color how much of it was driven by Project LaunchPad versus just overall more coverage from the ACA? This is Glenn.
We continue to focus a lot from our LaunchPad initiative into cycle management and in particular one of the key aspects is the bad debt.
We continue to see the rate coming down.
We came in on the diagnostic side probably around 30 basis points year-over-year so even though our call it our volume our revenue is going up our bad debt expense is going down so the savings on the rate is even greater because you’re still getting obviously new business.
But overall it’s mostly a function of again just the continued hard work of all our people identifying where the issues are and tackling it and we expect to see that rate continue to improve.
Yes it’s Dave.
I don’t think the ACA had a material impact this year.
I think most of the ACA benefit in terms of enrolment has annualized so as Glenn said I think it’s LaunchPad it’s sustained and focused effort by our revenue cycle management team and it’s just really good diligent hard work on the ground to collect the monies that are owed to us.
Great thank you.
Our next question comes from Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
I guess a two-part question.
The first is just an update on BeaconLBS - when might we see that move out of the pilot program in Florida? I guess not necessarily assuming it’s going to go national right away but just kind of curious what the latest thoughts are there.
And then secondly on the $30 million in cost synergies that you guys have dialed in over the past two quarters it strikes me that the $100 million target by 2017 is a little conservative so I’d love to hear some color on that as well.
Thank you.
Bill it’s Dave.
I can answer the first part of the question quickly and that is on BeaconLBS we continue to have discussions about expanding to additional markets and with additional customers.
We feel great that the BeaconLBS is proving out exactly as it was designed to and I compliment the BeaconLBS team on again great effort great execution great accomplishments and we’ll look forward to updating you as we enter new markets and agree to new business opportunities with new partners.
Bill this is Glenn.
On the Covance cost synergy side our target still is the $100 million over the three years.
It’s going to be weighted a little differently as we go-- One hundred and fifty.
This is the Covance-- Oh I’m sorry - Covance.
I thought he was talking about LaunchPad.
My apologies.
On the $100 million over the three years it’s going to be a little bit lumpy.
We obviously have gotten a lot of benefits early on by taking out the redundant public company costs leveraging the purchasing power of our two businesses but it will take some time further to get through the lab consolidation so that’s why it’s a little bit more back-ended as we have to continue to finish through all the trials that are being done in those facilities.
So we’re off to a very strong start.
We expect it to continue to improve year-over-year but we’re looking still at the call it $100 million over the three years.
I’d be remiss because Dave’s sitting next to me that we always strive to exceed the targets that we’ve established but we’ll do that after we first achieve the targets that we’ve established.
Understood.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Whit Mayo from Robert Baird.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks.
Wanted just to go back to the capex question just for a second.
Your original range at the beginning of the year was about 325 to 350 and you dialed it down to 250 to 275 over a couple of quarters.
I guess I’m just curious what the biggest difference is between then and now.
I understand and can appreciate that some projects can get pushed out and delayed but just trying to get a sense of what we should see going forward and whether or not any of these perhaps delayed projects pick up into next year.
Whit this is Glenn.
Needless to say when we put together our plan and our guidance in the early part of the year it’s with going through a business planning process with the businesses identifying where they feel there are capital investment opportunities in addition to just the normal maintenance and so forth.
So we start off with that premise but as the year unfolds we continue to look at each of the investments and we look at it relative to others - some new ones will come in some other ones may get deferred based on timing.
But the level of spend that we have we feel is in line with our averages.
We’re actually spending less this year than in prior years if you looked at it on a pro forma basis which is positive and we’ve always said we would trend a little bit to that because both companies in fact have made some sizeable investments in systems facilities and so forth.
But we’re comfortable with the spend as you can see by our implied guidance.
We expect a higher spend in the fourth quarter than we did over the last couple.
Hopefully we’ll be below that but we continue to evaluate each project as a standalone investment and we make the decision whether or not we’ll go forward.
But we see a lot of good opportunities to invest that capital.
Whit it’s Dave.
I would just add parenthetically we are not under-spending or starving the businesses of capital to reduce the number.
We’re being very thoughtful about how we invest the capital but it’s not that we’re pushing projects out that are going to come back next year.
It’s that we’re looking at every single project rigorously and saying do we need to spend the capital dollars here or are there better places to deploy it? Yeah no I was--I mean the free cash flow is just getting to be a pretty big number so just trying to make sure people appreciate that.
I guess my last question is I think you’ve got maybe a $250 million senior note due this year and just curious if those were gone now and do you plan to be in the market to refinance those or just take them outright altogether? Just thoughts on that would be great.
Sure Whit.
This is Glenn.
We have $250 million of bonds that are due in December of this year and our current intention is to use cash on hand to pay down the debt.
Great thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from AJ Rice with UBS.
Your line is open.
Hi everybody.
Just two quick questions.
I appreciate the commentary around PAMA and the frustration with the hospitals not being included.
I’m just curious - if you take the proposal as is CMS has put in there an impact analysis of about a 4.5% cut in 2017.
Do you have any reaction to that impact as the average cut to the industry would experience and then is there any commentary on the 2016 proposed rule which has also come out any opportunities or challenges that creates? AJ it’s Dave.
It’s hard to size the 4.5% assessment that CMS gave obviously because we’re not privy to the data that they used to analyze it; however it does reinforce something we have been saying all along which is we don’t see a draconian negative outcome here for the industry.
So it does reinforce our sense that this is not the doomsday scenario that many people had painted.
In terms of the rest of the proposed 2016 rule we are looking at it carefully.
Obviously there are some proposed changes around drugs and abuse testing there are some proposed changes around next-gen sequencing there are some proposed changes around panels.
None of them appear to be material to us at this early stage but we will continue to analyze them and obviously file comments as appropriate.
Okay thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good morning thanks for taking the question.
Maybe if you talk about commercial pricing a little bit where you are in your contract negotiations and then is there any potential for any fallout from the PAMA decision sort of working its way through commercial reimbursement? Gary it’s Dave.
I’ll let Jay comment on the commercial negotiations.
I don’t see the PAMA rule having an impact on commercial pricing with the exception of one very small area which is there are some Medicare Advantage plans that are tied to the Medicare fee schedule.
As I say it’s a very very small part of the business.
Other than that our negotiations with commercial payors are based on value they are based on individual CPT codes.
They are not--obviously the Medicare fee schedule is always a frame of reference but they are not based on that fee schedule.
So I always say when the Medicare fee schedule goes up that doesn’t get us an increase with the commercial payors and when the Medicare fee schedule goes down that doesn’t get us a decrease.
Gary the only thing I would add on the commercial pricing is obviously we feel very good about our managed care relationships and our current contract initiatives.
There are no major contracts that are coming up through the end of this year.
We have great relationships with our managed care partners and we feel great about the opportunity to continue to provide them with the level of service that we have.
Great.
Maybe if I could ask a follow-up Dave you’ve talked a lot in the past about how the value proposition is so strong for LabCorp.
We’re seeing at least some movement towards accountable care models and some bundled payment models.
Are you seeing any benefit from that or do you think we’re on the cusp of starting to see some benefit from that? I think it’s very early days on the accountable care and the bundles.
Obviously I think right now from my understanding most of the bundles are just putting all the payments together and then distributing them out pretty much consistent with the status quo for the bundle.
I think over time this is a great opportunity for us.
Again as the highest quality and most efficient provider and as the bundles start to include more services without more dollars behind them reference back to my observation about the commercial pricing for hospital laboratory services earlier.
People are going to look for the highest quality highest value service and we’re going to be in a position to provide that.
So I think we’re going to continue to see volume shifting and share moving in our direction as a result of that change in the marketplace.
Great thanks a lot.
Excuse me Operator.
It’s right at 10 o’clock.
We have four questions in the queue so we’ll do the lightning round here; but let’s please try not to ask questions that have previously been answered.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Donald Hooker with KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Great good morning.
So real quick I guess maybe the pre-clinical sort of toxicology business.
I know it’s small but there’s a lot of leverage there I think over time so can you talk a little bit about some of the trends in pricing and how much capacity you have there over the next couple years? How long can you grow that business before you need to add capacity? Okay thanks.
This is Deb.
Globally we’re at about 70s as far as capacity.
Utilization in the U.S.
is slightly higher and Europe is a little bit lower.
Obviously we’re glad to see our capacity filling.
It’s a much improved situation versus a few years ago.
We do run a global business and that’s been to our advantage because it allows us to move studies around to maximize our capacity globally and that way we can leverage it.
We do monitor our capacity obviously daily.
As far as pricing we’ve seen some low single digit price increases generally speaking.
It’s different for different types of studies and in different parts of the world and again it’s much better than the price decline we’d seen a few years ago.
With our global capacity we do have some flexibility about capacity additions.
Our next question comes from Dave Francis of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning and congrats on the quarter.
Real quick bigger picture for either Dave or Deb given some of the political and median noise around drug pricing and marketing that some of your customers are experiencing right now on the drug development side of the business are you seeing any change in their behavior or your type of discussions with them relative to some of the things that they are dealing with there real time? Thanks.
Yes this is Deb.
I’ll start out and then I’ll turn it over to Dave.
You know as far as from an early development standpoint our orders continue to be strong from all segments - emerging midsize and large pharma so at least thus far we’ve not seen it impacting.
And I’d just quickly add the drug development business is about innovation and innovation is going to continue to be the answer to improved delivery of healthcare.
So we don’t see any reason why the current controversy should affect the desire over the long term for innovative drugs to market and for Covance being an absolutely essential part of bringing innovative new medicines to patients.
Great thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Tanquilut with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Brian if your line is on mute can you please un-mute it? He may have pressed the star one key in error.
We’ll move on to the next question.
Our next question comes from Mark Massar with Canaccord Genuity.
Your line is open.
Hey guys thanks.
So your large competitor commented that they saw utilization dip.
Wanted to ask if you agree with that assessment if it was anything beyond the customary July-August seasonality from the summer; and secondly Dave can you comment on your update--or can you update your commentary on launching a direct-to-consumer business by the end of this year? Yes first of all we don’t comment on other people’s comments so we commented on our results and as we said we had a very strong quarter from a volume perspective and we’re very pleased with the outcome there.
In terms of the direct-to-consumer business we have always said that when we launch our direct-to-consumer business it’s going to be responsible it’s going to be compliant it’s going to focus on the LabCorp quality and service with the medical and clinical support that we have always provided in our business-to-business if you will side of the business with physicians and hospitals and other customers.
So we think the direct-to-consumer opportunity is important it’s a market that is growing and consumers are more and more engaged in healthcare.
But as we always do it’s going to be done in a clinically medically and regulatory compliant fashion and we are excited about the opportunity.
Thank you.
Thank you that concludes the Q&amp;A session.
I will now turn the call back over to Dave King CEO for closing remarks.
We thank you for joining us this morning and wish you a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s conference.
You may all disconnect and everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Laboratory Corporation of America Q4 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Paul Surdez Vice President-Investor Relations.
Sir please go ahead.
And now turn it over to your host.
Investor Relations</strong> Good morning and welcome to LabCorp's fourth quarter and full year 2015 conference call.
As detailed in today's press release there will be a replay of this conference call available via telephone and Internet.
With me today are Dave King Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Glenn Eisenberg Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Jay Boyle CEO of LabCorp Diagnostics and Deborah Keller CEO of Covance Drug Development.
In addition to our press release we also filed a Form 8-K this morning that includes additional financial information.
Both are available in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.labcorp.com and include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call to GAAP.
Finally we're making forward-looking statements during today's call.
These forward-looking statements include among others statements about our expected financial results the implementation of our business strategy and the ongoing benefits from acquisitions.
These statements are based upon current expectations and are subject to change based upon various factors that could affect our financial results.
Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our 2014 10-K and our subsequent filings with the SEC and will be included in our 2015 10-K.
We have no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dave King.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Paul and good morning.
2015 was a transformative year for LabCorp.
We delivered a strong operating performance and created the world's leading healthcare diagnostics company through the acquisition of Covance.
We now have employees in approximately 60 countries generate nearly 20% of our revenue from outside the United States and are well positioned to compete in a number of attractive global markets.
Specifically our addressable market now extends beyond the roughly $70 billion North American clinical lab industry and includes global opportunities in our core laboratory business drug development food safety and market access.
With the Covance acquisition our company now competes worldwide in a growing addressable market of approximately $200 billion.
Our financial performance in 2015 reflects our larger footprint and broader capabilities.
The combined organization delivered strong revenue growth and margin expansion in 2015 with nearly $1.5 billion in adjusted operating income double-digit earnings growth and over $720 million in free cash flow.
In 2016 we expect our free cash flow to exceed $900 million with attractive opportunities to enhance our market position and create shareholder value through capital deployment.
Our guidance reflects our confidence that LabCorp Diagnostics will deliver another strong year and that Covance Drug Development will continue its solid momentum into 2016.
Our success is due to execution of our strategy to improve health and improve lives.
Our execution on three key strategic objectives delivering world class diagnostics bringing innovative medicines to patients faster and changing the way care is provided led to these impressive results reinforcing our conviction in the transformation that we undertook a year ago with the Covance acquisition.
I will discuss each objective and how we are differentiating ourselves in the marketplace.
First to deliver world class diagnostics we focus on organic growth through introducing new tests to our existing customers as well as through reaching new customers channels and markets.
We also focused on integrating diagnostic information and content and continuing our industry leadership in scientific innovation.
Finally through disciplined capital deployment we acquired complementary businesses that enhance our offerings.
Last year we expanded our test menu with the introduction of 75 new assays and accelerated next-generation sequencing capabilities.
We experienced strong demand for our innovative decision support tools delivering over 5 million enhanced reports to help customers manage health and important conditions such as chronic kidney disease cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes.
We also added complementary capabilities through targeted tuck-in acquisitions such as Safe Foods a premier food safety laboratory that expands our size and reach in the fast-growing global food safety arena.
In addition we progressed on a number of important consumer facing initiatives including our Patient Portal Lab-In-An-Envelope offering and consumer-initiated testing and we remain enthusiastic about their long-term impact on our business.
Our strength in science is highlighted by our differentiated capabilities and unparalleled experience in companion diagnostics which provides a sustainable competitive advantage.
Over the last six months three very important oncology companion diagnostics received FDA approval.
For each one we were the exclusive laboratory to partner on the clinical trials and support the regulatory submissions.
In addition we were among the first labs to launch these tests for commercial distribution.
Our ability to collaborate with sponsors at all stages of companion diagnostic development through Covance and commercialization through LabCorp gives us a preferred offering that is improving the lives and health of patients and translating to robust financial growth.
Our companion diagnostic franchise achieved double-digit growth in 2015 and we remain confident that we will deliver $100 million in incremental revenue in companion diagnostics through 2018.
For our second objective bringing innovative medicines to patients faster we are focused on commercialization of novel technology helping partners rethink their global R&amp;D decisions and disciplined capital deployment to build and acquire complementary capabilities.
We collaborated on 87% of the 45 new drugs that were approved by FDA last year.
Within oncology we collaborated on 100% of the new drugs that were approved.
It is noteworthy that these collaborations included all aspects of our full spectrum of drug development services from early development to central lab to clinical.
These outstanding results demonstrate the breadth of our capabilities and the power of our combined company to provide differentiated end-to-end solutions designed to improve the success of clinical trials reduce development timelines and consistently deliver the highest quality services at a competitive price point.
Our differentiation extends to our combined central lab which is recognized as the industry leader in revenue scale service quality and breadth of test menu.
During the quarter this business grew double-digits and secured a multi-year sole-source relationship with a large new customer bringing great momentum as we move into 2016.
We continue to lead the industry in using patient data to improve trial recruitment.
Through the end of 2015 we attribute over $130 million in new orders to our backlog due to the combination of LabCorp patient data and Covance's capabilities.
Our success spans multiple indications including oncology and infectious disease and includes wins from both new and existing customers.
In the fourth quarter we began soliciting patient consent to be contacted about potential trials through our Patient Portal.
The initial response to our outreach has been excellent as tens of thousands of patients have already consented and we expect this database of patients to rapidly grow.
This capability is unique and allows us to build a large cohort of potential candidates for clinical trials Phase IV studies observational trials and a host of other real-world applications.
It plainly highlights the power of our data and our combined entity.
For our third objective to change the way care is provided we are focused on commercializing our innovative technology-enabled solutions.
We are pleased with the initial successes of Beacon LBS and Xcellerate Monitoring.
Beacon LBS uses technology to improve decision-making about laboratory test ordering at the point of care and began generating revenue in 2015.
Xcellerate Monitoring leverages the power of actionable data to better manage clinical trials.
And in 2015 we announced a landmark multi-year agreement to deploy this product as an exclusive central monitoring solution for our customers' worldwide trials.
These solutions delivered great value to our partners in 2015 and we expect to expand their capabilities and utilization in 2016.
LabCorp looks very different from a year ago and we have taken profound steps to transform our company and differentiate ourselves from our competitors.
I am deeply appreciative and gratified by the focus performance and enthusiasm that my 50 000 colleagues around the globe brought to our work throughout the past year.
The acquisition of Covance created a unique business with extraordinary capabilities and significant global growth opportunities.
Our execution has resulted in impressive and financially measurable progress on our strategy and I expect this progress to continue in 2016.
Now I'll turn the call over to Glenn.
Thank you Dave.
I'm going to start my comments with a review of our fourth quarter results followed by a discussion of our LabCorp Diagnostics and Covance Drug Development segments and conclude with our 2016 guidance.
Revenue for the quarter was $2.2 billion an increase of 48% over last year.
The acquisition of Covance contributed $670 million during the quarter driving 44% year-over-year revenue growth.
The remainder of the increase was driven by organic volume growth across both core and esoteric testing as well as benefits from Beacon LBS price mix and tuck-in acquisitions that were partially offset by currency.
Gross profit for the quarter was $741 million or 33% of revenue compared to $547 million or 36.1% last year.
The increase in gross profit was due primarily to the acquisition of Covance as well as price mix organic volume and the benefits of Project LaunchPad partially offset by personnel costs and currency.
The decline in gross margin was due to the mix impact of Covance.
Excluding Covance gross margin would've increased 10 basis points over last year.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was $405 million or 18% of revenue compared to $310 million or 20.5% last year.
Excluding special charges of $32 million primarily related to the acquisition of Covance and legal costs SG&amp;A in the quarter was $373 million or 16.6% of revenue a 300 basis point reduction versus last year's adjusted SG&amp;A.
The increase in SG&amp;A was primarily due to Covance personnel costs and tuck-in acquisitions partially offset by Project LaunchPad savings.
The reduction in SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue benefited from Covance's lower SG&amp;A rate.
Excluding Covance SG&amp;A would've improved 20 basis points over last year.
During the quarter we recorded $54 million of restructuring charges primarily relating to Covance.
Amortization expense for the quarter was $38 million up from $15 million a year ago due to the impact of acquisitions.
Operating income for the quarter was $244 million or 10.8% of revenue compared to $219 million or 14.5% last year.
Excluding amortization restructuring and special items of $125 million adjusted operating income was $368 million or 16.4% of revenue compared to $250 million or 16.5% last year.
Excluding the mix impact from Covance adjusted operating margin would've increased 20 basis points over last year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $57 million compared to $32 million last year.
The increase was due to higher debt balances due to the acquisition of Covance.
The tax rate for the quarter was 38.5% higher than last year's 36.1% rate due to the taxable nature of certain restructuring charges.
Excluding special charges and amortization the adjusted tax rate for the quarter was 34.1% compared to 36.5% last year as we benefited from Covance which has a higher percentage of its earnings generated in lower tax rate foreign jurisdictions.
For the full year our adjusted tax rate was 35.3% and we expect the rate in 2016 to be comparable.
As a result net earnings for the quarter were $114 million or $1.11 per diluted share compared to $120 million or $1.39 per share last year.
Excluding amortization restructuring and other special items adjusted EPS were $1.98 in the quarter up 20% from $1.65 last year.
During the quarter operating cash flow was $385 million compared to $214 million last year with the increase due to the acquisition of Covance as well as favorable working capital.
Capital expenditures totaled $85 million up from $46 million last year primarily due to Covance.
As a result free cash flow was $300 million compared to $167 million last year bringing our full year free cash flow to $727 million.
Excluding net nonrecurring acquisition items of approximately $110 million our full year free cash flow would have been $837 million.
Our cash balance at year-end was $716 million compared to $713 million at the end of the third quarter.
Total debt was approximately $6.4 billion.
During the quarter we invested $43 million in acquisitions and paid down $250 million of debt reducing the company's leverage to 3.6 times debt to last 12 months pro forma EBITDA.
Now I'll review our segment performance.
For comparative purposes segment results are presented on a pro forma basis for all periods as if the acquisition of Covance closed on January 1 2014 and exclude amortization restructuring special items and unallocated corporate expenses.
During the quarter we revived our methodology for the calculation of unallocated corporate expenses which impacts our LabCorp Diagnostics segment results and has been applied to prior periods for comparative purposes.
As a result LabCorp Diagnostics' operating expenses increased by $8.5 million in the quarter and would have increased $7.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Conversely unallocated corporate expenses were reduced by $8.5 million in the quarter and would have been reduced by $7.6 million in the fourth quarter 2014.
Reconciliations of segment results to historically reported results are included in today's press release and the current report filed today on Form 8-K.
Now I will review the performance of LabCorp Diagnostics.
Revenue for the quarter was $1.6 billion an increase of 4.3% over last year.
The increase in revenue was the result of organic volume growth measured by requisitions Beacon LBS price mix and tuck-in acquisitions partially offset by currency.
The increase in revenue of 4.3% includes the benefit from Beacon LBS of 1.1% and an unfavorable foreign currency translation of 0.8%.
Revenue per requisition increased 2.2% benefiting from price mix and tuck-in acquisitions.
In addition esoteric testing revenue grew at a faster rate than core testing revenue.
Total volume increased by 1.8% of which organic volume was 1.6% and acquisition volume was 0.2%.
LabCorp Diagnostics adjusted operating income for the quarter was $293 million or 18.9% of revenue compared to $273 million or 18.4% last year.
The increase was primarily due to volume price mix and productivity partially offset by personnel costs.
Improvement in productivity was driven by Project LaunchPad which delivered approximately $20 million of net savings during the quarter bringing our full year total to $65 million.
We remain on track to achieve our three-year $150 million goal and estimate that the remaining LaunchPad savings will be achieved equally over the next two years.
Now I'll review the performance of Covance Drug Development.
Revenue for the quarter was $691 million an increase of 4.7% over last year.
The stronger U.S.
dollar negatively impacted revenue growth by approximately 230 basis points.
On a constant currency basis revenue increased 7% over last year.
In addition the anticipated expiration of the Sanofi site support agreement on October 31 impacted revenue growth by approximately 200 basis points.
Excluding this item constant currency revenue would have increased 9% over last year.
Covance Drug Development had strong revenue growth across all of its businesses led by central lab.
In addition the revenue growth rate in the clinical business improved from the third quarter as did the rate in early development when excluding the impact from the expiration of the Sanofi site support agreement.
Adjusted operating income was $110 million or 16.0% of revenue compared to $90 million or 13.6% last year.
The increase in operating income and margin was primarily due to increased demand as well as productivity and cost synergies partially offset by personnel costs.
We captured approximately $15 million of cost synergies during the quarter bringing our year-to-date total to $45 million.
We remain on track to achieve our three-year $100 million goal and estimate that the remaining cost synergies will be achieved equally over the next two years.
Net orders during the quarter were $816 million representing a net book-to-bill of 1.18 while backlog at year end was $6.7 billion.
The trailing 12-month net book-to-bill was 1.23.
Now I'll review our 2016 guidance which assumes January 31 foreign exchange rates for all of 2016.
On a consolidated reported basis we expect net revenue growth of 7.5% to 9.5% over 2015 net revenue of $8.5 billion after the impact from approximately 100 basis points of negative currency.
We expect the LabCorp Diagnostics segment to grow 3.5% to 5.5% over 2015 pro forma revenue of $6.2 billion after the impact from approximately 50 basis points of negative currency.
We expect the Covance Drug Development segment to grow 2% to 5% over 2015 pro forma revenue of $2.6 billion after the impact from approximately 200 basis points of negative currency.
The expiration of the Sanofi site support agreement will negatively impact Covance's 2016 growth rate by approximately 260 basis points.
Excluding the impact from currency and the expiration of the Sanofi site support agreement net revenue is expected to increase 6.6% to 9.6%.
Our 2016 adjusted EPS guidance is $8.45 to $8.85 an increase of 7% to 12% over 2015.
We expect the distribution of earnings in 2016 to be similar to 2015 as our results in the first and fourth quarters are typically impacted by inclement weather and holidays.
Our adjusted EPS guidance includes the impact of currency and an increase in our share count due to stock compensation and option exercises but does not include any share repurchases.
We expect free cash flow to be between $900 million and $950 million up from $727 million in 2015 and expect our capital expenditures to be approximately 3% of net revenue consistent with 2015.
In summary we are enthusiastic about our prospects for 2016 and expect strong top-line growth and margin improvement to drive strong year-over-year earnings per share growth and robust free cash flow.
This concludes our formal remarks and we'll now take questions.
Operator? Our first question comes from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Good morning and thank you.
I just had a couple of quick follow-up questions around your revenue guidance.
First can you maybe break down what your expectations are on the Diagnostics side between volume and price? And Dave maybe just give us an update as to what you're seeing out in the marketplace as far as commercial reimbursement.
We obviously know what's going on with PAMA but any update around your thoughts on the commercial reimbursement environment? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Lisa.
We don't separately break out volume and price in the guidance so we can't give you any further clarity on that.
With respect to commercial reimbursement generally I think the environment in terms of pricing continues to be relatively stable.
We saw nice revenue per requisition improvement year-over-year in the quarter and for the third quarter in a row.
And as Glenn identified in his remarks that's a combination of tests mix and core esoteric growing faster than core and the benefit of some tuck-in acquisitions that brought us some higher pricing.
So generally pleased with the overall pricing and reimbursement environment and pleased with obviously the improvement in revenue per requisition in the quarter.
And then how about on the Covance side? So 2% to 5% I know last year Dave that you announced that at our conference there was something that was signed on the Covance side.
Is there any update there? Maybe update us on the revenue synergies and how those are coming along.
And then also just help us understand what potentially gets you to the upper end of that revenue guidance range.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
So with respect to the revenue synergies as we indicated on the call now over $130 million in what we described as category 1 which is the use of the patient data and I continue to be quite optimistic about that given the success that we've had with the patient recruitment through the Patient Portal.
As we mentioned tens of thousands of patients have already agreed to be re-contacted.
It gives us a deep base of patients to – that we can contact for potential trials which I think will be a differentiator in terms of winning revenue over time winning commitments from sponsors over time.
Obviously central labs very very strong in the quarter and very pleased with the growth and the momentum that we have going into the year.
And we saw a nice improvement in revenue in the clinical business.
We saw I think we're seeing very good success in our early development solutions.
And I would highlight again the companion diagnostics and our success in companion diagnostics.
Nobody else can say that they had – that they were the exclusive lab on the three key oncology – immuno-oncology drugs that were approved in the market over the last six months.
Nobody else can say they worked on 87% of the drugs that were approved or on 100% of the oncology drugs.
It's just something that completely sets us apart from the market.
So what gets us to the high-end would be stronger performance in the clinical business and obviously the mix of business wins because longer more complex trials that pay us a longer stream of revenue with a better mix will lead to more profit and that will get us to the higher end of the revenue range and obviously help us also approach the higher end of the EPS range.
So I said a lot there but Deb if you have anything to add happy to have you add as well.
Covance Drug Development Covance Inc.</span></strong> No I think Dave the point that you made about the wins that we've had because of the clinical data as well as the strength we've had in central labs early development continues to do well.
With the capacity utilization strong in the U.S.
and in China we've got some additional space in Europe and we continue to look at innovative ways in which we can be (27:02) comfortable with our space to kind of meet the changing demand in the early development space.
And then last but not least as you mentioned the mix of studies whether it's where they are geographically or therapeutically also can have an impact.
And Deb if I can just ask one follow-up.
If we look at what's going on on the biotech side right now we think about new companies trying to come to market and obviously this is a difficult market for biotech companies.
Are you seeing any impact on these new emerging companies as far as your pipeline goes? Covance Drug Development Covance Inc.</span></strong> Most of our business 85% of our business comes from the large pharmaceutical companies.
And that continues to be strong.
As far as biotech they are a very important part of the drug development process obviously and somewhat of an innovation engine for pharma.
We believe that the cash on hand remains at high levels and we've had nice wins from the biotech industry this year specifically in our early development but across all of our segments.
Okay.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Bonello with Craig-Hallum.
Your line is now open.
Hey.
Yes thanks.
Just a question you mentioned that you added a large multi-year contract with a new central lab customer.
Can you give us a bit more color on that contract? If it's for a specific project? Does it go across projects? Is it an exclusive relationship? And then maybe just what you believe drove the win? Why did they decide to contract with you? Covance Drug Development Covance Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Good morning.
Well first of all we don't comment on a specific client but what I will tell you is that it is a multi-year sole source and what that means is that we'll not only be the sole source provider for the central laboratory but also for the bio-analytical.
It was tough from a competitive standpoint but how Covance eventually won that sole source was based on our first of all our operational service excellence and our breadth of testing menu as well as our global reach.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And Bill it's Dave.
I would comment it's a new client for us so that's really a positive development.
And also I think in large measure it's attributable to the combination of capabilities.
I mean the LabCorp esoteric capabilities so we start with Covance's global reach and the strong reputation for quality and service.
And then add to that LabCorp esoteric capabilities the next gen sequencing capabilities we really present a very compelling value proposition.
And as we've gone head-to-head with competitors for these agreements we've been very pleased that in situations like this we come away with the wins.
Okay.
Great.
Can I sneak in one follow-up? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes one.
Thank you.
Also related to Covance obviously the revenue side is looking great the outlook there.
Now that you've had Covance sort of under your belt for a year can you tell us what your latest thoughts are on your initial synergy targets? Whether those are looking more or less conservative? And then whether you see any efficiency opportunities at Covance sort of beyond those initial synergies? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Bill it's Dave.
So as we mentioned in the call we've achieved $45 million of the synergy – of the $100 million that we initially set out as our target.
So I think for year one that's a very strong performance against the target.
And we remain committed to achieving the $100 million and as Glenn said approximately 50/50 over the next two years.
Having said that we always look to outperform on the synergies and we always look for the opportunity to improve efficiency and productivity but along with that just as with Project LaunchPad to improve the employee and customer experience.
So I certainly think there will be opportunities as we progress and particularly as we even more comprehensively integrate the capabilities of the organizations around oncology for example and around infectious disease to find more savings and we'll obviously keep you closely updated as we move forward.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Cherny with Evercore ISI.
Your line is now open.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for the details so far.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
So I'll try and keep to my one question here.
It might have a couple parts to it so bear with me.
The cash flow generation profile here continues to be robust.
Obviously it was as a standalone company now you're starting to see the benefits from being a pro pharma (32:14) company being able to generate even further cash.
As you think about that cash flow generation particularly now as you're getting towards the leverage level which I know Glenn you're probably a little more comfortable with.
You contrast against the backdrop of an uncertain market environment for a vast majority of the smaller players in the market given the questions about PAMA the broad views on utilization how is that affecting your M&amp;A pipeline? How is that affecting the type of deals that are being presented to you given that you have a very active BD (32:44) portfolio? And how do you think over time that will evolve particularly if we do move to a situation where the PAMA revisions do not change and a lot of these small labs don't have the capabilities to be able to address what the reimbursement cuts could be? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Mike good morning.
It's Dave.
I think obviously the cash flow generation is very impressive.
And as I mentioned in the prepared remarks over $900 million projected for next year.
I think the M&amp;A pipeline right now is as robust as we've ever seen it.
Part of that is because we are looking at M&amp;A in other areas where we see the opportunity for fast growth like the food business with the Safe Foods transaction.
But we also – we see a lot available in the tuck-in opportunities in the diagnostics space.
And we plan to be very disciplined in terms of what we buy and how that fits into our core strategy which as we've said many times around diagnostics M&amp;A is expansion of footprint expansion of test menu and continuing to build size and scale in the franchise.
So we feel great about the M&amp;A pipeline and we certainly have plans to – as we've said frequently in the past our guidance always assumes that we're going to acquire about 1% of rev – that we're going to do tuck-in acquisitions that will account for about 1% revenue growth and that's certainly in the plan for the year and I think there is ample opportunity to execute on that.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Jack Meehan with Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks.
Nice quarter guys.
I similarly have one question two parts.
Maybe for Dave just curious what your views are on the volume environment on the lab side of the business.
The organic volumes it looked like it pulled back a little bit just pairing that against what you're hearing from the hospitals what your view is for 2015 or for 2016? And then for Glenn just surprised we're not seeing a little bit more gross margin leverage given the pricing benefit.
I was wondering if you could walk us through that too.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Jack.
It's Dave.
So I think what we have said all year long about volume is that we knew that we were going to see a step down in volume from the first half to the second half because of the annualization of the contracts and obviously we highlighted that.
It hasn't been a secret and that's been the case.
I think if you look sequentially from the third quarter to the fourth quarter taking into account the differential in the number of days in the quarter that volume per day was actually quite consistent.
And so we are pleased with the volume and we are pleased with the organic volume growth that we delivered throughout 2015.
For 2016 I think our volume projections and obviously we've seen some things coming out of the hospitals that suggest that hospital volumes have been bouncing around.
But I think our volume projections for 2016 suggest that we would expect to see a continuation of what we've kind of seen here in 3Q and 4Q absent some large contract winner some shift in the marketplace; you're going to see volume organic volume continue to grow at kind of this 1.5% to 2% rate depending on the ups and downs and ins and outs.
So I think we've been obviously delivering very very solid volume growth and we expect to continue to do so.
And in particular proud of the fact that the great majority of that volume growth is coming from organic growth which means the introduction of new tests our sales efforts and our organizational leadership is extremely effective.
Glenn? Yes Jack I guess just on the leverage in the margins first we think we obviously had a very strong year on leveraging our top line.
Margins overall were up around 110 basis points year-over-year 47% leverage on the incremental revenues is pretty strong on a pro forma basis.
That improvement in margins was across both gross profit and SG&amp;A.
So when we talked about the margin improvement that we had excluding Covance to show that it was a mix impact when you look at both segments on a pro forma basis you actually see both segments seeing very strong margin growth.
So we characterize it as a pretty strong year benefiting from the strong demand benefiting from price mix if you will benefiting from the tuck-ins benefiting from our LaunchPad initiative our synergy initiative on the Covance side.
So overall we would characterize it as very good leverage.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
Thanks guys.
Our next question is from the line of Nicholas Jansen with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Two very quick ones.
First on the Beacon LBS just wanted to get your thoughts of kind of the expansion potential of that platform.
And then secondly back to capital allocation with $900 million plus of free cash flow in 2016 and probably certainly growing in 2017 how do we think about the share repurchase opportunity now that you are I would assume by the end of 2016 you will be within shouting distance of your kind of approaching 2.5 times leverage target? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Nick it's Dave.
On Beacon LBS the strategy across the enterprise is consistent right? It's new customers new channels new markets.
And so for Beacon LBS the expansion opportunities in 2016 are new markets with the existing customer which is United new customers which are other organizations that may be interested in subscribing to the tool and new channels which is the addition of more capabilities such as molecular diagnostics to the menu.
And all those things are underway and we feel very good about where we are with Beacon LBS.
And it's been this is a service that the Beacon LBS team within LabCorp has really invented created designed and implemented and I am really proud of them and they should be really proud of themselves about what they've accomplished because it's terrific.
And it's generating a fairly significant amount of revenue now and we see the opportunity for great growth there.
On capital allocation we have said many times that our target leverage is 2.5 times; that is only a target.
We are always going to be flexible in terms of looking at how we allocate capital.
We do expect that by the second half of the year we will certainly be in a position to consider returning capital to shareholders through share repurchase.
And again it depends on the M&amp;A pipeline depends on how the cash flow stacks up but we'll always be evaluating that opportunity.
As you know I think we've had a pretty consistent history of share repurchase as a way of returning capital and creating value for shareholders.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks guys.
Our next question is from the line of Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Good morning guys.
Thank you.
I wanted to ask a couple of technology questions actually this morning.
First off I thought it was notable that you went through some commentary on the companion diagnostics opportunity I think you said $100 million by 2018 and I just want to kind of confirm that you guys were talking about that $100 million as sort of an annual run rate that you look to achieve by that time.
And if so should we assume those revenues are accretive to the EBIT margins for the company? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Isaac what we said was that we expect it to generate $100 million in incremental revenue for the enterprise by 2018.
So we haven't talked about the run rate of the companion diagnostics business specifically other than to say we had double-digit growth in 2015 which we are very pleased with.
But we don't want to confuse the $100 million in incremental revenue which was the initial target that we set out a year ago for the companion diagnostic growth with the size of the business because the size of the business is already actually quite close to that number.
Got it.
Okay.
And then just maybe from a biotech standpoint we've – I think the question has been asked a couple of different ways but I'm wondering if you could maybe benchmark for us historically when you've seen slowdowns in funding how you guys think about the impact that has on the Covance side? Is there a sort of magnitude of funding slowdown or a timing there that we should keep in mind to the extent that this is a fluid environment for that customer group and the impact on the Covance business? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No I just go back to what Deb said.
I think she covered it quite comprehensively.
There's billions of dollars in cash on the balance sheets of biotech and when there's a good compound that a company is looking at it doesn't get canceled because of lack of funding.
There's always a way to find funding for it.
Compounds or studies get canceled because of adverse events or because of a change in focus but we don't see the "funding" environment as having any near-term effect on where we are with Covance at all.
And again as Deb highlighted 85% of our revenue is coming from what we would characterize as large pharma so the exposure to biotech is only about 15% of total Covance revenue.
Got it.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Robert Willoughby with Credit Suisse [sic] (Bank of America).
Your line is now open.
Hey Dave or Glenn in the 8-K it looks like you break out Covance at about 31% of your revenues now but is that including some of the non-government facing business the non-managed care business as well the forensics the substance abuse testing? If not what could that percentage all-in represent? Yeah all of Robert all the revenue streams that we have obviously flow into the two segments so everything is encompassed there.
So the non-traditional businesses are 31% then of your revenues? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No no the 31% is the Covance business.
The non-traditional – so the way it sorts out Bob is that anything that reports into Diagnostics is reported as part of Diagnostics so the forensics the Orchid Cellmark all that stuff reports in through Diagnostics and that's part of the – that's part of what we report as Diagnostics.
The only thing that has changed in the way that we have historically reported is what used to be reported as part of LabCorp in the clinical trials business which was our central lab has moved over to Covance and what used to be reported as the Covance Food Safety and Nutritional Chemistry business is now reporting up through LabCorp.
And you think of that in approximate terms as we've put a little more into Covance than has come over to Diagnostics but not materially so.
(45:06) Yeah I guess what I'm trying to get at Dave when you did the Covance deal there was a slide I think that you threw out that a certain percentage of your revenues was now away from where maybe the problem was from a reimbursement standpoint government standpoint what have you.
I'm trying to get at how much of your business now with Covance growing with the Orchid the Bode deals and the other things.
Is it 35% or closer to 40% now that might be away from traditional managed care pressures and maybe government reimbursement challenges? Yeah just take a first cut I think maybe what you're getting at is with the acquisition of Covance we picked up a lot of pharma and biotech customers that we didn't have that now represents call it around 30% of our total.
So by definition call the government reimbursement side is a lower percentage given we've added new customer base.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes we can I think we actually published a chart that shows those percentages Bob and we'll get that up.
But my recollection is pure government went from like 17% to 12% and managed-care went from a little over 50% to about 30%.
So say we went from 67% approximately 67% to approximately 42% in terms of managed-care and government payment across the enterprise.
Does that help? Yes I will follow up with you.
I've got to go back and find the initial slide.
But that is clear.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
Our next question is from the line of Amanda Murphy with William Blair.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
I just had a question on the patients database that you spoke to.
So I'm wondering at this point how much of a limitation if at all the consent issue has been in terms of your ability to mine the data and productize the data side.
So in other words as you build that database could you see acceleration in bookings as a result of your ability to have the consents there? And at what point does the database have critical mass? I realize it's growing quickly but at what point does it become sizable enough that it would move the needle? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I guess there's a lot in that question.
So let me start by saying that monetizing the data in and of itself has never been something that has been an aspiration for LabCorp.
We don't view data sales as – it's not going to generate enough revenue to materially help us and it's not what we want to do strategically.
What we want to do is we want to use the data to further the strategy and the strategy obviously is to execute on our three core goals which is delivering world class diagnostics bringing innovative medicines to patients faster and using technology enabled solutions to change the way the care is delivered.
What I see in getting patient consent through the Patient Portal is we have patients who come to us for lab testing.
They come to the Patient Portal to get their results.
When they come to the portal we are now addressing the patient population in a place that we've never addressed them before and that no one else is addressing them to say given your diagnosis given what we know about you would you be interested in being contacted in the event there was a study that could potentially improve your own health or could improve the health of the population as a whole? And the response has been very positive.
And as I say we launched it in 4Q tens of thousands of patients have encountered the prompt.
A lot have said yes.
Some have had said no.
We are working on figuring out how we can improve the yes rate.
But and again this is not as simple as when you go to download an update to your Apple phone and you either say yes and you get it or no you don't.
There has been a rigorous compliance review there are protections around how we present this to the patient and what we ask them and we've gone through a very thorough review to make sure that we're doing this in a way that is going to be protective of the patients' privacy and our responsibility to honor that.
Now again what does that lead to? It leads to a large database of patients which can be accessed for a variety of things clinical studies Phase IV observational studies reaching out to patients to ask them questions about medication use or medication adherence.
So just a whole variety of areas in which we think this becomes a differentiating factor because we have the patients' consent to re-contact them.
So I would contrast that with an anecdote that was told to me recently which is a patient got a letter in the mail from a pharmacy saying since you are taking this drug would you like to be in this trial? Well the patient was taking the drug for a completely different reason and was annoyed by the letter.
Because the patient had never given the pharmacy permission to write them letters and ask them about what they want to do because of their use of drugs.
We get the patients' consent beforehand before we ever re-contact them and we ask for it.
And as a result I think we're going to have a very a cohort that's going to be very interested in how they might participate.
And sure in the long run the goal is that would lead us to more bookings it would lead us to more opportunity to show sponsors that we have a good patient cohort available when they start recruiting and would lead to more revenue and growth.
Got it.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
You had about $110 million of acquisition or integration costs this year where do you see that next year and maybe the year after? Yes when you say the integration we have costs from integrating the business as well as primarily relating as well to the Sanofi site support agreement that's now expired and we are going through a restructuring there.
So we still anticipate having integration restructuring costs in 2016 but a much lower level than what we've had this year and then those ultimately will go away.
Okay.
Great.
And then maybe some color on the esoteric growth front? Maybe more detail in terms of where it's coming from specifically? And then how does that break out from growth from what you're already doing versus acquisitions that you've made? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The biggest areas of growth in esoteric probably women's health NIPT continuing to see good momentum with BRCA and infectious disease.
So those are probably what I would highlight as the four top areas.
How much of it is acquisition driven? The acquisition pricing benefit actually mostly came from anatomic pathology as opposed to specific test acquisition.
So most of what I would characterize as the core I'm sorry the growth in esoteric just came from excellent execution on sales priorities by the organization.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Hi.
Good morning.
Dave obviously you talk about tuck-in acquisitions at about 1% to top line can you maybe share with us your thoughts of M&amp;A opportunities and kind of like your appetite outside of the core lab business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Good morning Ricky.
So one of the things I highlighted in my opening remarks is that we are competing in a much bigger space than just the core lab business.
So now we are competing in the core lab business but on a global basis.
We are competing in drug development we are competing in market access we are competing in food safety.
So you should think about our appetite for acquisitions as spanning all of those businesses potentially.
Now a couple of caveats the likelihood of us doing a sizable ex U.S.
clinical laboratory acquisition is relatively small just because we are much more likely to think about doing that doing ex U.S.
clinical laboratory now that we have a global footprint by building as opposed to acquiring.
So we certainly are looking at global expansion opportunities in the clinical lab business but I wouldn't put that at the top of the list from an M&amp;A perspective.
What I would put at the top of the list is tuck-in acquisitions in the lab the clinical lab business acquisitions in the food business acquisitions in drug development acquisitions in market access; all of which we'll look at through the lens of what's our return on invested capital how does it strategically contribute to our key priorities and what are the valuations relative to other opportunities for deployment of capital.
Okay.
And if I could have just one follow-up and that might be a question for Deb.
Obviously 2015 was really impacted by the fact that new trial startups took longer.
I think Dave in the past you said that the period of time for trial startups was extended by around 6 months to 12 months.
So can you just give us an update on where you are at now and have we kind of like – have you normalized kind of like your book of new starts and is this going to be sort of a headwind to revenue conversion in 2016 and beyond? Or are we now at a steady state? Covance Drug Development Covance Inc.</span></strong> Thank you for the question Ricky.
As far as our backlog burn we've seen it stabilize.
It started off the year as you said a little bit slower than expected however both in clinical and central labs we saw it stabilize throughout the year kind of similar to the trend that we've seen in the last 10 years.
Okay.
Great.
So from your perspective it's kind of like we're now at kind of like the new normal.
Covance Drug Development Covance Inc.</span></strong> It's just leveled off to similar to the trends that we've seen in the last 10 years is how I would state that.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So we're at about the top of the hour we have six more questions in the queue so I would encourage people to let's try to ask one and also let's try not to ask things that have already been answered please.
We would like to be able to answer everybody's question today.
Our next question comes from the line of Whit Mayo with Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is now open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks.
Just a quick one on bad debt and self-pay collection rates.
Have you seen any change or deterioration in co-pays deductibles? Just maybe remind us where that's trending and maybe any opportunities to improve the collection rates going forward.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So bad debt improved throughout the year and the team did a terrific job in terms of both reducing the bad debt rate and recapturing additional revenue that previously was going to bad debt.
The issue on self-pay is we're seeing as you see more patients come through exchanges exchanges do tend to have higher deductibles higher self pays and now we are experiencing something although in a limited way that you've heard other providers talk about which is people who are on and off the exchange.
So they are on the exchange and then they're off the exchange and then they sign back up again there are 29 different reasons right now why people can get on an exchange even outside the enrollment period.
And so we're seeing some of that and it does mean that more bills go to patient.
So for now we feel like we have the situation well in hand but it is something that we're keeping a close eye on.
Our next question comes from the line of A.J.
Rice with UBS.
Your line is now open.
Hi everybody.
Obviously a lot of territories covered but let me ask you about Washington if there's any updates either with respect to the CMS clinical lab fee schedule or the FDA and its efforts around lab developed tests what you're hearing from your Congressional supporters as well as from the administration? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> A.J.
it's Dave.
So on PAMA we have not heard anything further.
Obviously there were some very positive developments from our perspective in terms of strong letters going from the House from the Senate and from the Chair and Ranking Member of the Finance Committee encouraging both the inclusion of at least a selection of key hospital labs as well as a delay in the implementation of PAMA.
We continue to believe that the inclusion of key hospital labs is absolutely vital to accomplish the Congressional purpose which was a market based price for Medicare and realistically we're at the end of February the rule has not been finalized.
It's hard for me to imagine how this could be implemented in January of 2017 in a way that would be fair to our industry.
So that's the view on PAMA.
On FDA we continue to work closely with Congress and attempting to work with the FDA as well on a solution that would be a legislative solution that would bring clarity to whatever regulation there's going to be of lab developed tests and it would not be depended on sub regulatory guidance as a proposed long-term solution.
And we feel again we've been very clear about this we feel very strongly that guidance is the wrong way to go about this and that we will continue to oppose that path.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Tanquilut with Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Hey guys.
Jason Plagman on for Brian.
Just a follow-up on the M&amp;A discussion.
To get a little more specific on the CRO side are there any segments or markets that are interesting both either short-term or long-term how you see the M&amp;A opportunity on the Drug Development business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't think we have anything to say beyond what we've already said which is we're going to look at all opportunities and evaluate the strategic fit and the returns and the valuations in comparison to what other opportunities there are.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray Your line is now open.
Great.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
So real quickly Dave you mentioned that you introduced 75 new assays in 2015.
If we just set aside the legality of what FDA is trying to do on the LDT side how are you guys thinking about I guess from a preparatory standpoint about introducing new tests in terms of potential FDA regulations that you may have to go through? And then secondly any impact from the January storms that we need to be thinking about here for the first quarter? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> To the first question Bill before we introduce a test to the market and some of these tests are kits which obviously have been approved or cleared by the FDA.
But before we introduce a test to market there is a very robust validation process within our laboratories to make sure that the tests are that they are valid that they report what they are supposed to report and that they have appropriate clinical utilities.
So we've followed that path for years we've been very disciplined about it and we'll continue to follow that.
And again our exposure to the LDT the potential of at least the initial stage of what FDA has proposed from an LDT perspective is relatively low as a percentage of revenue.
But this is important as an industry matter and it's important from an overall perspective in terms of innovation and development in the diagnostic industry.
For the weather impact from the January storms I'm going to turn this over to Jay to respond for the Diagnostics business.
LabCorp Diagnostics Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings</span></strong> Thanks Dave.
Bill the weather obviously we are always concerned about weather this time of the year.
Fortunately for us it was comparable to what we experienced last year.
I think most of the weather in the areas that would have been impacted was fortunately on the weekend.
So at this point we view it as inconsequential and we are keeping our fingers crossed for the remainder of this first quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Donald Hooker with KeyBanc.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
Real quick I'm not sure you talked about sort of what appears to be an improving price environment for pre-clinical CRO testing.
I know it's a small revenue number but I assume that's a pretty big drop through so small lever.
But can you just maybe give a tidbit or two on kind of the broader pricing environment there? Covance Drug Development Covance Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Thank you.
This Deb.
You are right the demand is increasing and it has great incremental drop through.
What I would say is that we are where we see the utilization getting tighter with U.S.
and China it is driving some modest price increases in those regions.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Massaro with Canaccord Genuity.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks for the question.
You guys have done a very good job growing organic volumes over the last couple of years in a tough environment.
This quarter you put up 150 basis points of organic volumes.
I want to make sure I understand what is contributing to the slight deceleration if you will on the organic volume trend line? What factors are baking in and how are you thinking about the impact of high deductible health plans and competition from hospitals? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes I think as we said the biggest factor that's contributing is the annualization of the contract wins.
And I don't think there is enough going on in high deductible plans or hospital competition to really change that.
I think the reality is that the high deductible plans and high co-pays have more of an impact on bad debt and collections.
It doesn't stop the patient from coming to get the testing done it just stops us getting paid for it.
So I don't think that has a significant impact on volume.
We've always faced competition from hospitals.
I actually think that it's been really about three years since we saw the huge shift in hospitals buying up physician practices and in-sourcing them and I think we are doing a terrific job on organic volume.
I think the Diagnostics team has done a great job.
We're clearly outperforming from my perspective the competitive market with organic volume growth.
I think we're outperforming the other healthcare services providers in terms of organic volume growth.
And so in spite of and again if you look at that what you'd characterize as a slight deceleration on a per day basis 3Q over 4Q it's actually essentially flat from an organic volume perspective.
So we are very pleased with it.
I am showing no further questions in queue at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back to Dave King for closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well once again we are very pleased with the year that we've turned in in 2015 and I want to express my appreciation to my 50 000 colleagues and to our leadership for really an exceptional performance.
We are excited about 2016 we look forward to talking to you again quarter-to-quarter with updates and hope you have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.