Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Eli Lilly &amp; Co.
Q1 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Phil Johnson.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for joining us for Eli Lilly and Co.'s First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Phil Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are our Chief Financial officer Derica Rice; our President of Lilly Research Laboratories Dr.
Jan Lundberg; our President of Elanco Animal Health Jeff Simmons; and Ronika Pletcher; and Jill Thoren from Investor Relations.
Today's Q1 earnings call coincides with our annual shareholder meeting.
As a result our CEO John Lechleiter is not available to participate in today's call.
During this conference call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on Slide 3 and those outlined in our latest Forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
Since the Q4 earnings call in late January we've continued to bolster our operations through business development to leverage our marketed products and to advance our pipeline.
We announced our offer to acquire the Animal Health business of Janssen Pharmaceutica from Johnson &amp; Johnson.
This business is primarily European-focused targeting disease segments in companion animals and livestock with special emphasis on swine and poultry.
Upon deal closing which is expected by mid-year we would obtain a portfolio of roughly 50 marketed Animal Health products.
Here in the U.S.
we began active promotion for Cymbalta for the management of chronic musculoskeletal pain and we launched Axiron the first and only testosterone replacement therapy applied to the underarm.
On the regulatory front we submitted our response to the FDA's Complete Response Letter for the use of Erbitux in first-line head and neck cancer.
We received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA for florbetapir our PET imaging agent being studied for the detection of beta-amyloid plaque.
We are working closely with the FDA to address their questions on the reader training program to ensure reader accuracy and consistency of interpretations of beta-amyloid plaque images.
Late last week we also received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA for liprotamase a pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy and we'll be working diligently to address the agency's questions.
In Europe we submitted our application for the use of Alimta induction treatment followed by Alimta maintenance treatment in advanced nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer.
And also in Europe we recently received the CHMP recommendation for approval of Bydureon for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
Based on this recommendation we anticipate receiving EC approval by late June.
On the clinical front we disclosed positive top line results for the Phase II trial of the once-monthly formulation of exenatide.
We plan to meet with the regulatory authorities to determine next steps for this program.
We also disclosed top line results of the Phase III DURATION-6 trial comparing Bydureon to the highest approved dose of Victoza.
Bydureon demonstrated a robust reduction in HbA1c from baseline.
However it did not meet the primary endpoint of noninferiority to Victoza 1.8 milligram in the reduction of HbA1c.
Additional data from the trial is planned to be disclosed at a later date.
And we began the first Phase III trial for our mGlu2/3 prodrug for schizophrenia.
Lastly on the legal front Lilly received a favorable ruling on the Cymbalta patent challenge.
Wockhardt voluntarily consented to entry of judgment in favor of Lilly on all pending issues which the judge so ordered.
The judge asked the remaining parties to indicate if they intend to proceed to trial and all nine defendants failed to indicate that they intend to proceed.
As a result we remain of the view that there will be no generic duloxetine product coming to market until the Cymbalta patent expires.
However a trial date remained on the court's docket for June of this year.
A meeting with the court Lilly and the defendants will be held later this month to determine next steps in this litigation.
While not specific to Lilly perhaps one of the most notable events since our last earnings call was the disaster in Japan caused by the March 11 earthquake and its aftermath.
Because Japan is such a big part of our growth strategy I'd like to provide you with some details.
First and foremost we were relieved that within hours we were able to account for the safety of all Lilly Japan employees.
We're also proud of the support both monetary and product donations that Lilly Japan the Lilly Foundation and Eli Lilly &amp; Co.
have provided to help those affected by this strategy.
From a business perspective our Japanese affiliate headquarters and development center of excellence are located in Kobe and we have a manufacturing plant in Seishin just outside of Kobe.
These operations are approximately 500 miles southwest of the disaster zone.
As a result we had no damages or other issues at these sites.
In terms of product supply we've encountered no issues getting manufacturing products into or out of Japan.
And we have not had and do not anticipate having any issue with the supply of raw materials intermediate or finished product from our Japanese suppliers.
Prior to the earthquake we had robust inventory levels throughout our supply chain for materials sourced from Japan.
In terms of domestic sales we did receive what appeared to have been precautionary orders from customers totaling $30 million to $35 million in the quarter.
We expect that this will wash out in future quarters.
Our thoughts are with the Japanese people in what will surely be a long and difficult recovery.
We'll continue to provide them our support and we'll continue to ensure that Lilly products reach the patients who need them.
Now with this background Ronika will discuss our Q1 financial results and provide our pipeline update and Derica will cover key events for the remainder of 2011 and our financial guidance for the year.
Ronika? Thanks Phil.
As we've done on our previous calls we'll focus our comments on non-GAAP results which we believe provide insights into our underlying trends in our business.
This view excludes certain items such as restructuring charges asset impairments and other special charges.
I'll start on Slide 7 with a quick look at our Q1 income statement.
On a non-GAAP basis you can see that we generated solid revenue growth of 6% this quarter.
Excluding Gemzar outside of Japan and the effect of U.S.
health care reform revenue would have grown 10%.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased slightly from 79.5% to 79.8%.
Operating expenses defined as a sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A grew 10% this quarter.
Drivers for the increase included: higher administrative expenses driven by the pharmaceutical manufacturers fee associated with U.S.
health care reform and higher litigation expenses; higher marketing and selling expenses driven by o U.S.
investments primarily in the emerging markets; and higher R&amp;D expense due primarily to increased late-stage clinical trials expenses.
In addition both SG&amp;A and R&amp;D expenses increased due to the BI [Boehringer Ingelheim] alliance.
Excluding the effect of U.S.
health care reform and the BI alliance operating expenses would have grown 7%.
Other income and deductions was a net expense this year compared to net income last year.
You may remember that we had substantial income in Q1 2010 related to the recovery of damages from generic olanzapine marketers in Germany and from gains on the sales of securities acquired in the ImClone acquisition.
Our tax rate was 20.9% this quarter considerably lower than 27.3% from last year's Q1.
Last year's Q1 rate included an $85.1 million charge related to the future taxation of the retiree drug subsidy and did not benefit from the R&amp;D tax credit as it had lapsed.
This year we did benefit from the R&amp;D tax credit as well as from the resolution of certain IRS tax matters.
At the bottom line our non-GAAP EPS increased 5% to $1.24.
As indicated Lilly provided the 2011 guidance in January we felt robust EPS growth in our business in Q1 excluding U.S.
health care reform the effect of the Gemzar patent exploration outside of Japan and investments related to the BI diabetes alliance.
Excluding these items EPS would have grown low double digits.
Slide 8 shows our reported income statement while Slide 9 provides reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS.
Additional details about our reported earnings are available in today's earnings press release.
Now let's look at how foreign exchange affected our Q1 revenue.
As you can see on Slide 10 total revenue growth of 6% was driven by solid volume growth of 5% and foreign exchange contributing the remaining 1%.
Price had no impact on the worldwide revenue growth.
We continue to see strong volume growth from our three countercyclical growth engines: Japan Elanco Animal Health and Emerging Markets.
Volume growth in Japan was 34% driven by recent launches of Cymbalta and FORTEO as well as continued strong growth of Alimta Zyprexa Gemzar and Humalog.
In addition roughly 1/4 quarter of the Q1 volume growth was attributable to precautionary buying Phil mentioned earlier; Elanco Animal Health volume growth of 25% in Q1 driven by the increased demand for food animal products globally as well as by the launch of Trifexis in the U.S.
and the acquisition of certain European Animal Health assets from Pfizer.
Going forward we expect Animal Health revenue growth to benefit from international launches of Comfortis.
In addition Elanco has a robust innovative pipeline and is poised to maintain double-digit growth in the coming years with launches expected in multiple products targeting high-value markets such as livestock immune enhancements control of parasites in companion animals and pain control.
We also built a substantial development capability in Animal Health vaccines and as demonstrated by our recent offer to acquire Janssen's Animal Health business we will continue to look externally for opportunities to drive growth in this business.
Finally you'll see strong 14% volume growth from our Human Pharma [Human Pharmaceuticals] products in the rest of the world lines.
Emerging market countries represented about 3/4 of the sales in Q1 and as a group also registered 14% volume growth.
In terms of products growth in emerging market countries was driven by Alimta Cymbalta Humalog and Humulin.
In terms of geographies we saw robust growth across the host of geographies in Asia Latin America and of course China.
Given the very small effect of foreign exchange on our results this quarter we provided our summarized non-GAAP and reported income statements with and without the effect of foreign exchange in our supplementary slides.
Now before I turn the call over to Derica let me provide a brief update on our pipeline.
On Slide 11 you'll find a view of our portfolio of new molecular entities in clinical development as of April 11 inclusive of changes since our January 27 earnings call.
Our clinical stage portfolio now stands at 69 distinct NMEs including 31 compounds in Phase II and Phase III.
Biotech molecules represent nearly half of our late-stage Phase II and Phase III assets in over 1/3 of our overall clinical portfolio.
Advancing our pipeline remains our number one priority as reflected by the arrows on Slide 11.
Since our January update we have began Phase III testing of mGlu2/3 for schizophrenia bringing our total Phase III portfolio to nine NMEs.
We continue to be on track to meet our goal of having 10 NMEs in Phase III by the end of the year.
Other molecules that could begin Phase III in 2011 include our novel basal insulin analogs our new insulin glargine product and our IL-17 antibody.
We also advanced two molecules into Phase II and two into Phase I.
Finally both tasisulam and IL-1ß antibodies continued earlier stage development after we terminated clinical trials in their lead indications and we terminated one molecule in Phase I development.
With this current pipeline and our continued business development efforts our goal is still to launch on average two molecular entities per year beginning in 2013 providing a foundation for future growth.
Derica? Thanks Ronika.
To set the stage for our financial guidance let me briefly cover some of the key pipeline events for the remainder of the year.
Having now received the CHMP recommendation for approval of Bydureon we look forward to launching the product in Europe later this year.
We have a number of other potential regulatory approvals this year including: linagliptin in the U.S.
Europe and Japan; and here in the U.S.
Cialis for BPH Byetta in combination with basal insulin and Erbitux for first-line head and neck cancer.
Expected regulatory submissions include: our response to the FDA Complete Response Letter for Bydureon; sBLA for Erbitux in first-line metastatic colorectal cancer and for first-line non-small cell lung cancer; Byetta in combination with basal insulin in Europe; and our response to the FDA Complete Response Letter for Amyvid.
Upcoming clinical trial data disclosures include initial results from the Phase III trial of Alimta induction treatment followed by Alimta maintenance treatment in advanced nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer at ASCO.
At the EULAR meeting in London in May we will present data on the two Phase II trials of our BAFF antibody and rheumatoid arthritis.
And lastly data from a study assessing the safety of Cialis when co-administered with alpha blockers will be presented in May at the American Association of Urology meeting in Washington.
Just late last month data from the clinical trial evaluating tadalafil in men with ED and with signs and symptoms of BPH was presented at the European Association of Urology.
Finally as mentioned earlier Phase III trials could begin this year for our novel basal insulin analog and our new insulin glargine product and for our own anti-IL-17 antibody.
In terms of our 2011 financial guidance.
As you've seen in our press release we still expect 2011 non-GAAP earnings per share of between $4.15 and $4.30.
Our 2011 reported EPS guidance range of $3.86 to $4.01 reflects a $0.23 IPR&amp;D charge from the BI alliance and the $0.06 restructuring charge.
The business fundamentals underlying our guidance are essentially unchanged since our last update in January.
However a number of foreign currencies in particular the euro have appreciated in recent months.
As a result we're updating our revenue growth and gross margin percent guidance.
Assuming rates remain at current levels we now expect 2011 revenue to grow in the low single digits.
And we expect 2011 gross margin as a percent of revenue to decline by approximately 3 percentage point.
Also we're now estimating that the 2011 effective tax rate will be approximately 21% on a non-GAAP basis and approximately 20% on a reported basis.
Both of these rates reflected benefit from the resolution of certain IRS audit matters.
In addition the reported tax rate for the full year reflects the tax benefit of the in-process R&amp;D charge associated with the BI alliance.
All other elements of our line item guidance remain unchanged.
Now Slide 14 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS for 2010 and the associated growth rates from these numbers to our revised 2011 guidance.
Now in summary so far 2011 is playing out as anticipated.
We're making progress advancing our pipeline and we're delivering solid financial results.
With the initiation of Phase III trials for mGlu2/3 for schizophrenia we now have nine molecules in Phase III development putting us on track to meet our goal of having 10 molecules in Phase III development by the end of this year with more coming behind.
Along with continued business development this pipeline serves as the foundation of our growth post years YZ.
During Q1 we also made progress on our productivity goals and are in tract to meet our 2011 headcount and expense containment goals.
When we discussed our 2011 guidance in detail on the January call I shared that we face a number of headwinds this year as patent expirations will lower sales outside of Japan for first for Gemzar and later for Zyprexa.
U.S.
health care reform will exact a higher cost this year than it did in 2010 and we'll face some near-term dilution from our strategic diabetes alliance with Boehringer Ingelheim.
I also shared that we expect to see continued strong performance in the rest of our business.
We did see the negative impact in Q1 of these items and we delivered strong growth in the rest of our business as promised.
Excluding these items on a non-GAAP basis we posted revenue growth of 10% operating expense growth of 7% and low double-digit EPS growth.
We saw robust revenue growth from our three countercyclical growth engines with Japan growing 41% Elanco growing 28% and Emerging Markets growing 15%.
Moving forward we will continue to focus on: delivering strong financial results improving productivity to allow for appropriate investment in our patent-protected products and our pipeline and on speeding the next generation of Lilly molecules to market to provide growth post years YZ.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And now we open the call for the Q&amp;A session.
Operator first caller please? [Operator Instructions] And our first question today comes from the line of Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Derica a question for you on Bydureon and congratulations getting CHMP approval.
But I'm wondering if you could share us sort of generally how you're thinking about pricing relative to Victoza in light of the DURATION-6 results.
And then also included in the recommendation for approval was a pharmacovigilance program and I'm wondering if you can elaborate on that.
And just lastly just to switch gears here on the gross margin the delta in the gross margin the delta in terms of your new guidance for the full year reflect a $0.17 hit and I'm wondering if that is all related to foreign currency or is there cushion related to Zyprexa going generic.
Thanks.
Sure.
Jami I'll take the Bydureon pricing question and the question also in terms of the gross margin.
Jan you may want to deal with the pharmacovigilance question.
As it relates to Bydureon pricing clearly at this stage we're not in a position to disclose what our pricing strategy would be behind this brand before we've even launched it.
But what I can say is we still feel very confident in the commercial prospects for Bydureon given the label that we would anticipate.
As it relates to your gross margin question regarding FX it is all attributable to FX rate and in terms of our revised guidance of minus 2 percentage points to minus 3 percentage points decline.
In relation to risk management for Bydureon of course we have safety very high on the agenda and we know that there are certain special issues that have been discussed in the past.
But in general we have our safety surveillance that we need and particularly looking for if there are increase in pancreatitis thyroid tumors et cetera.
A couple of quick things as well in terms of additional details on the potential label coming out of Europe and specific details on the pharmacovigilance plan those are things we'll need to wait comment on until the EC provides its formal approval of the CHMP recommendation which we expect to come hopefully in late June.
And then in terms of pricing do keep in mind that the DURATION-6 trial was against the 1.8 milligram dose of Victoza.
Rough numbers in many of the European markets it would appear that the 1.2 was launched at roughly parity to Byetta which means that the 1.8 would be the substantial premium.
So as we enter those discussions with pricing authorities in Europe we'll be looking at the full raft of DURATION trials where we have very strong data against insulin glargine against ACTOS against Januvia and against Byetta all of which have a price that's out in the marketplace.
And then as you're mentioning Jami we'll also have the DURATION-6 data against the 1.8 milligram dose of Victoza that we'll enter into those discussions as well.
So again as Derica said a very strong overall package.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Anderson with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
On the 2011 guidance is that likely to be impacted by the pending purchase of the Animal Health products? And more generally what is the landscape looking like for Lilly in terms of additional acquisitions either in the Animal Health or other areas that might provide you with a greater level of diversification? And then on solanezumab can you narrow down the timing of when we'll likely see results and also where you are with the interim looks and whether you'll announce one of those -- well once those interim looks have been completed? Okay great.
Maybe Derica you can comment on the '11 guidance and how that might be impacted by the Janssen acquisition.
And maybe you and Jeff can comment respectively on the general and then Animal Health acquisition landscape.
And then Jan and Ronika maybe the solanezumab update would be great.
Tim this is Derica.
Our 2011 guidance does fully take into account the acquisition of the Janssen Animal Health asset both top line as well as bottom line.
In regards to this development we continue to be active in this space.
But I think we've been also very clear about our intent.
We're not in the market for large-scale M&amp;A but we are looking for opportunities to continue to enhance our business both from the standpoint of either finding molecules that complement our development pipeline portfolio or finding those product opportunities that we can bring in that bring sales and cash with it.
And then that's clearly what we also saw as we looked at the Janssen acquisition in terms of Animal Health a way of bolstering our Animal Health business with Jeff can respond to further.
Yes Tim I would say we've made four acquisitions in four years Lilly has and it's all playing around this countercyclical growth engine that was made in the comments.
We will continue to be opportunistic.
But it really has to drive three things: one is growth; strategically it has to drive growth; diversity; and bring capability.
And I would say all four acquisitions in the past have done that.
That's what we'll continue to look for as we go forward.
Although the organic growth that we see over the next two or three years in Animal Health is going to be significant with six new launches this year and more launches to come in 2012.
In relation to solanezuma our A-beta antibody then to stop progression of Alzheimer's disease we would have an interim analysis this year in relation to utility and safety.
The final data from the two Phase III trials are expected mid-2012.
And then we will disclose the data at an appropriate event.
One of the thing I'd add Tim you see we had in an effort to give you guys some more exposure to -- of operational heads of our various areas of the company Enrique on the call last quarter Jeff this quarter.
We'll likely have Jacques Tapiero Head of our Emerging Markets area on next quarter.
That is an area in Emerging Markets countries where on your question of M&amp;A probably for the last 24 months or so we've seen pricing very high frankly and more likely you'll see things that are of the collaboration and licensing in the short term until those trends reverse in the Emerging Markets properties.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Gilbert with Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Three quick ones.
First Derica were there any wholesaler or retailer inventory level changes of note that affected sales in the quarter in the U.S.? Secondly can you talk about what you needed to see on your GLP-1 to move it into Phase III? What was the bar there? With any specifics you care to share? And thirdly more strategically should we view the Avid acquisition as a sign of things to come for Lilly or more as a one-off that will take you some time to assess before you really answer that question for yourselves? We'll have Derica take your first and third questions Greg.
Then we'll go ahead and handle the GLP question you asked as well.
Greg we actually had -- we saw two types of activities that relates to wholesalers stocking and destocking in the first quarter.
In the U.S.
we did see a level of destocking on the part of wholesalers.
And as best as we can tell even at the retail level as well in the first quarter.
So that destocking served to dampen our revenue growth in the U.S.
in Q1.
At the same time given the disaster that we all witnessed in Japan we saw a buy-in on the part of wholesalers or distributors there in the case of emergency.
And that buy-in Japan was probably in the range of around $30 million to $35 million in the quarter.
So it was -- of the 41% of Japan growth that we saw in the quarter about 25% of that was related to this buy-in.
As it relates to your third question around the Avid acquisition -- just a reminder to everyone when we did the Avid acquisition it was solely based upon the prospect of that compound itself.
And our thesis behind that is that we saw an interesting therapeutic that could complement our portfolio.
Clearly as that plays out it gives us an opportunity to ponder other alternatives.
But for right now we're planning and progressing as though it's around Avid itself.
Now regarding to your second question Greg.
You mentioned GLP moving into Phase III we actually moved GLP into Phase III quite a while ago.
I think you may have meant to say mGlu2/3 in which we moved into Phase III in this past quarter.
If that is your question I'm going to actually turn the call over to Jan to give some more clarity.
But we actually presented some 6-month safety study data at the beginning of April at the ICOSR meeting the International Congress for Schizophrenia Research which discharged some of the risk.
But again I'll turn it over to Jan to answer further.
Thank you.
The whole schizophrenia area is in desperate need of some new agents than in addition to the currently used typical antipsychotics.
So we are very interested in our mGlu2/3 agonist as an optional treatment for these patients.
The study mentioned discharged the risk in relation to seizures as we see it in relation then to standard of care.
It's known that patients with schizophrenia do have an increased risk of seizures but our agents did not seem to have any more effects than standard of care.
And we should remember there are some potential clear advantages with our mGlu2/3 agent less risk for extrapyramidal symptoms and also it has a much better metabolic profile in relation then to a typical antipsychotics even  with a potential weight loss not the weight gain.
Thanks Jan.
And lastly Greg on the U.S.
piece just to put some numbers around what Derica had mentioned each year we typically would end within the guidelines we have with the wholesaler at the higher end of the days on hand the wholesalers the end of the calendar year and we typically come down in Q1.
That was the case both in 2010 and in 2011.
However the decline was a bit steeper in 2011 and that would have trimmed about 1 percentage point off of the U.S.
growth rate.
Our next question comes from the line of David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.
Thanks very much.
I have a couple of questions.
First I missed the beginning [ph] of the question about whether the guidance already assumes the inclusion of the Animal Health business later this year so that's my first question.
Second with respect to solanezumab I think that Jan mentioned that there is a futility analysis this year.
Could you please comment on whether that's in the first half such that you'll be able to comment on at your June 30 analyst meeting or not until the second half? And then third with respect to your long-term earnings outlook Derica do you expect to communicate that at the June 30 analyst meeting or prior to the meeting on a separate call? Thank you.
Okay.
David I'll take your first and third questions.
This is Derica.
As I stated earlier our guidance for 2011 does fully contemplate the Animal Health transaction.
In regards to the long-term guidance or construct that we put out there in December of '09 David I would see ourselves coming back to that at our June analyst meeting.
I don't anticipate us giving any more color on that prior to our June meeting.
Jan? In relation to the timing of the futility analysis we have decided not to comment exactly when this happened during this year.
But what I can say is that the safety profile so far in these trials look better than for semagacestat and they're actually less patients that have stopped the trial because of safety issues.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Scala with Cowen.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
I have two questions again on solanezumab.
How is futility defined in these trials since that 12 months one might not expect the material cognitive decline in any patient group? And if that is the case is that a risk for these trials? And then second when in 2013 might you file GLP Fc? Might it be a first half event or might it be a second half event? Thank you.
Jan? Well I think I have said what I want to say about solanezumab but we now need to wait for the data.
With regards to GLP FC we have provided no specifics with regard to timing on filing.
We have initiated all four award studies.
So we're pleased with the progress there but no additional information on timing.
We do have a question from the line of John Boris with Citi.
Thanks for taking the questions.
First question for Derica on the Animal Health business from Janssen.
Can you just give us some color on the size of that business especially in light of it being incorporated in your guidance.
Second question on China in particular and your diabetes franchise there.
I think the New England Journal of Medicine cited there's about 92 million diabetics there and your market share relative to your competition is a little bit lower than your competition? What are you going to remedy that potentially going forward? And then one question for Jan within the 2013 time period aside from GLP-1 Fc what are the other one or two assets that might be positioned for launch at that time? Okay.
Firstly John I think we're going to have Jeff comment on your first question on the Animal Health and size of the Janssen business.
And then maybe Derica on the China diabetes question.
And then on to Jan.
Yes so we have Janssen is represented in the Vetnosis the actual independent animal health data that's tracked by this company.
It represents $200 million this past year $170 million the year before.
I would note though that outside of the U.S.
which is about $25 million their distributor sales.
So it represents a little bit level that's higher than what really Janssen and we will recognize.
So that number is a little bit high.
And then the actual margins would be very much average for the industry in Animal Health.
Okay.
John in regards to China as I stated -- well actually there was a ton of interview this morning.
Our China business grew 23% in the first quarter.
And if you look at the diabetes opportunity while today we are clearly have a smaller share of market position versus our competition we have taken decisive actions to improve our competitive position going forward.
We've recently commissioned a new diabetes research facility and operation there.
In addition to that we are actually -- we commissioned also building a second manufacturing facility in China which will be diabetes-related as well.
And then thirdly we've more than doubled the size of our commercial footprint.
So we believe that we are -- positioned ourselves to take advantage of this significant opportunity in that marketplace.
And we see ourselves with the opportunity to gain share.
And part of the learning for that is also with what we've seen here in the U.S.
So even in a market where you could say it's fairly saturated in the U.S.
we've seen a significant uptick in our diabetes share of market both on a NRx and a TRx if you look at the last year.
Jan? Yes well over my years I've learned to speculate on timing for launch dates it's one of the most difficult things we have.
And we should also remember that the two NME launches per year from 2013 should potentially come both from internal and in-licensing or acquisitions.
So those are three options.
There are some programs with the right data that could deliver ahead of time.
Potentially solanezumab could be one of them.
We do have a question from Bert Hazlett from BMO Capital Markets.
Thanks.
I have one question on Japan and another on the pipeline.
First on Japan you did have some buy-in but there do seem to be some products that are growing fairly robustly I guess Cymbalta Alimta Evista and Strattera.
Could you discuss your expectations for growth and the potential kind of countercyclical nature in terms of additional product launches that would be coming down the road there? And then secondly in terms of the pipeline for Jan I see you're moving the IL-17 program forward in rheumatoid arthritis.
But my count is this will be at least the third program in RA.
You have the orals JAK1/JAK2.
You'll have the anti-BAFF antibody NRA and now the IL-17.
Could you talk about its positioning in RA and vis-à-vis the BAFF antibody in particular? Thank you very much.
Bert this is Ronika.
With regards to Japan and launches you might remember earlier in the decade we had mentioned -- last decade we had mentioned that our goal was to launch a lot of the products we had not yet launched in Japan that had already been launched in the U.S.
And those include several that you mentioned Alimta and Strattera which launched in 2009 as well as Cymbalta FORTEO Byetta that also launched in Japan in 2010.
Also keep in mind part of the countercyclical nature of Japan includes the fact that we have Zyprexa in Japan through 2015.
So products that could also be launched in the near term in Japan include our partnership with BI specifically linagliptin.
It's a potential launch in Japan in 2011 or approval I should say in 2011.
So those are the highlights with regards to Japan.
Jan? Yes we are very excited about our opportunities in rheumatoid arthritis and the autoimmune area in general.
Having these three agents it's actually an opportunity not a problem.
First of all the oral JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor partnered with Incyte could be I think a very competitive agent in relation to Pfizer's recent Phase III agent which have received so much attention tofacitinib with a positive recent data.
We are currently exploring them the JAK1/JAK2 component Phase IIb in relation to dose safety and efficacy.
Oral agents will be placed earlier most likely than in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis competing with methotrexate as a key initial agent.
Our two biologicals the anti-BAFF and IL-17 represents very novel agents with new mechanist to influence then the immune system; the BAFF against that B-cells and the IL-17 more as an inflammatory cytokine that is released.
And both of these agents have positive Phase II data in rheumatoid arthritis and they will be positioned then in patients that actually are failing to TNF.
And we know that there is substantial proportion of patients up to 50% that don't respond well enough to TNF blockers.
And even if you then can switch to another TNF agent the efficacy goes away with time.
So we see both the BAFF and the IL-17 as potential new treatment options in actually quite a large patient population that have been failing TNF agents.
Bert this is Derica.
Just to expound a little bit more on your question regarding Japan.
If you recognize last year Japan crossed the $1.5 billion mark so we surpassed the $1.5 billion.
That's a business that we believe we can double the size of that business over the next four to five years.
And you look at as Ronika said you got brands like Cymbalta Zyprexa through '15 and Alimta but you're also seeing the impact of the recent launch of FORTEO as well as the continued growth around Alimta Humalog and Gemzar.
So that gives you some idea of what we're expecting in terms of that countercyclical growth engine we've been talking about along with Emerging Markets as well as Elanco that's helping to mute the impact of patent expirations like Gemzar in Q1 and later Zyprexa this year.
And I'll still remind everyone that we -- top line grew 6% 5% volume and that includes the impact of the generic erosion for Gemzar in the quarter.
And the generic erosion for Gemzar shaved about 3 percentage points nearly off of the worldwide growth rate for the quarter as well.
So it's a pretty significant impact.
We have a question from the line of Seamus Fernandez with Leerink Swann.
Thanks very much.
So just a couple of quick pipeline questions.
Can you just update us on linagliptin and whether or not Lilly expects to -- that panel to be fielded for the product prior to approval? It looks like there won't a panel on this drug.
And maybe just give us your reasons specifically for that.
Second you've moved a CETP inhibitor forward I believe or have a CETP inhibitor in Phase II in atherosclerosis.
Can you just update us on your thoughts with regard to that mechanism and what you believe is necessary to move that product into Phase III safely? And then the last question is actually can you just update us on the status of necitumumab? I believe one of the studies there was actually placed on clinical hold so just looking for an update there.
Jan? Okay.
In relation to our DPP-4 inhibitor in linagliptin together with Boehringer that was filed last year and we have no further comment I think on dates or potential advisory boards et cetera.
We see this agent as a very promising oral anti-diabetic compound that complements our offering to patients making Lilly very broad if not the broadest offering in the whole therapeutic area of diabetes across major pharma.
We are quite enthusiastic about our CETP inhibitor which now are in Phase II trials in combination with statins.
We based this on our Phase I data but also actually as a class the competitor molecules both from Merck and Roche as you know are moving ahead with Phase III trials.
We feel we have a competitive agent based on what we have seen so far what area is then to avoid the problems that Pfizer had with the torcetrapib mainly the increasing blood pressure.
We have not seen this for our compound and we are enthusiastically moving it forward I think we can say currently.
Necitumumab we are still pursuing this squamous non-small cell lung cancer indication in Phase III.
Our next question comes from the line of Catherine Arnold from Credit Suisse.
A couple of questions.
One I wanted to ask you about your U.S.
price increase if it had not been for health care reform impacts.
And then I wanted more specifics you guys have given numbers about the effect of the overall reform but I wasn't clear if whether what you said included doughnut hole or how you're going to be recording those? Is this going to be as those discounts are demanded of you? Are you sort of accruing an expectation across four quarters? And then on solanezumab I wanted to just ask one more question that hasn't been asked yet which is as far as when the pre-specified analysis is done at the end of the trial is there going to be severity of disease stratification in that pre-specified analysis in addition I would presume to carrier and non-carrier.
Okay.
Derica you want to handle the first two and then Jan the last one solanezumab? Sure.
Catherine this is Derica.
I think you're aware of what the dollar impact of health care reform as it relates to revenue growth was in the first quarter it was about $90 million.
If you look at our guidance for the year both for the revenue piece which was we believe the health care reform impact will be in the range of $400 million to $500 million that includes the impact of -- the anticipated impact of the doughnut hole.
And then as you recall the pharmaceutical excise fee will then impact us in the administrative OpEx line.
And that's being to the tune of about $150 million to $200 million for the year.
Jan? Right.
I appreciate your interest in solanezumab.
It certainly could be a tremendous agent for patients with Alzheimer.
The primary endpoint here is clearly reducing the disease progression and we will look at mutation status as a secondary opportunity.
A couple of additional comments maybe Catherine the $90 million impact of U.S.
health care reform on revenue this quarter if you're looking at the impact on the growth rate do recall that we had said approximately $60 million was the impact to revenue in Q1 of 2010.
I think if you look in the Q you'll actually find it was $62.4 million was the number.
So it turned about 1 percentage point off of the U.S.
revenue growth rate and about 0.5 percentage point off of our worldwide growth rate for the quarter.
And then in terms of the doughnut hole I think there may be different practices at the various companies.
You may want to check on this.
But essentially for the doughnut hole we've done our best to try to model.
We think will actually be occurring.
In other words the charge that we would have recognized in Q1 would assume that a whole host of people would not yet have hit the doughnut hole during this quarter.
And if you look at the approximately $90 million for the year and compare it to $400 million to $500 million for the full year you'll see that assumes a bump-up in Q2 through 4 compared to Q1.
That bump-up is due to the higher expected charge that we'll be recognizing for the doughnut hole as more seniors and Medicare hit that part of the benefit from U.S.
health care reform.
Our next question comes from the line of Marc Goodman with UBS.
Yes Derica can you give us a little more flavor on what's going on on the restructuring? How much has been done so far? Where's the impact and how much more there is? And as you've gotten in there to cut cost does it -- are you finding more areas to cut? And just give us a little more detail on that.
And then the other question was what was the key product that was ordered so much of in Japan? Was it Zyprexa? Or was it all the products? Okay.
Mark this is Derica.
In regards to update our restructuring as it relates to our $1 billion cost savings goal we are very much on track to achieve that.
In fact I anticipate that we're going to exceed that goal okay for the year.
And in addition to that on the headcount front we've talked about reducing our headcount excluding strategic acquisitions and strategic investments by about 5 500.
We're about 75% of our way to that goal as well.
So both of those we anticipate meeting by the end of the year if not exceeding.
As it relates to other additional insights I think that we have instruments and tools like Six Sigma that we've been utilizing since 2004 where as we approach the end of the year of 2011 that's not going to be the end of our efforts to drive further efficiency gains throughout our business.
We know that our patent challenges don't go away at the end of '11.
So I think there'll be further opportunities.
How much? I'm not prepared to define that for you guys here today.
But recognize we believe that we will have the capacity to make the investments necessary in our pipeline as well as sustaining the dividend.
And that was all predicated on us to achieve this year.
Jill? In terms of the sales products ordered in Japan.
The sales were actually increased across the board driven by Cymbalta FORTEO and Alimta.
We have a question from the line of Chris Schott with JPMorgan.
Great.
Thanks very much.
My first question was on the quarterly progression of gross margins.
I know we can get a lot of variability quarter-to-quarter in your gross margins.
So I was just looking for a little bit more clarity on the progressions here.
I guess based on your new guidance it looks like you have an average somewhere between 77% 78% for the remainder of this year.
I guess is there any one quarter that's going to be seeing a disproportionate hit from FX? And then also just going -- it's an earlier question are you anticipating a meaningful drop in fourth quarter gross margins as the generic Zyprexa impact ramps? Second question just was -- can you also just with the mGlu walk through the timeline and the scope of that Phase III program? And in that answer would you also touch on any incremental data that might be requested by the FDA to address some of the basic earlier seizure data points the products saw that might be included in that Phase III program? Thanks.
Okay Chris I'll go ahead and try -- let me start with the mGlu2/3 first.
We don't have with us the specific timing for the trial.
The one thing I would highlight is Ronika had mentioned the presentation earlier this year of the 6-month safety data.
We'll have probably late this year at the best maybe early next year the opportunity to present the 12-month safety data from that trial.
So that will sort of be the next major data readout that I would point you to for mGlu2/3.
And then in terms of the gross margin percent dynamics.
With the strengthening of foreign currencies here in the first quarter particularly of the euro we would expect for the full year we would have a substantial additional cost booked to cost of sales from this FX impact on international inventories sold.
If you recall there were some pretty different dynamics last year quarter-by-quarter.
Probably the best thing I can do is point you to Slide 17 in the supplemental portion of our slide deck for today where at the bottom you'll see for each discreet quarter how much FX affected gross margin in those particular quarters for the year.
At a high level we had a modest benefit to cost of sales booked Q2 last year a significant benefit to cost of sales booked in Q3 so at current rates you have a very unfavorable compare to the Q3 number.
And then actually we've flipped then to having a modest addition booked to cost of sales in the fourth quarter.
Hope that helps.
And you had a question about Zyprexa and its impact on gross margin.
So yes when we lose Zyprexa and as we go throughout the year but more profoundly in the fourth quarter when we lose the U.S.
it will also have a detrimental or negative impact on our gross margin.
We do have a final question from the line of Damien Conover with the Morningstar.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just wanted to follow up on your comment of the acquired products coming into the Animal Health division being coming in at industry average margins.
Could you just remind us what those margins are? And also how Lilly's margins in the Animal Health business stacks up to the industry average? Great.
Jeff? Sure.
Yes so industry average is if you look at kind of at a higher level what you have is usually in Animal Health lower SG&amp;A so lower sales and admin cost higher manufacturing cost.
So we're slightly off from the bottom line.
So the industry average is somewhere on the margin line between 20% and 25%.
So Janssen's on the lower end of that range and we would be in that range as well.
When you step back and look at the business though I think why we're quite excited about going forward: First Janssen does give us more of a global footprint gives us more capability inside of Europe as well as we've got a hundred pending registrations of different products across all the countries internationally.
So it was a very European business we're going to take global.
And then at kind of a macro level how we're going to continue to see margin improvement and above industry growth rates in Elanco is just looking at the three big areas: in Animal Health where there's higher margin; companion animals we're at about 10% the industry is at 40%; Europe we're at about 10% 11% exactly and the industry is about 30%; and vaccines we're very small with our Pfizer acquisition and the industry is at about 25%.
So we see tremendous upside at higher-margin areas in these three segments.
So that's what gives us some -- a lot of optimism and growth as we go forward the next three to five years in Animal Health.
Great.
Thanks.
Having exhausted the callers on the line I'll go ahead and turn it over to Derica to close our call for today.
Thanks Phil.
I first want to say thanks to all of you for joining us today.
We very much appreciate your interest in our company.
And we hope that you found the information we shared today about our products and our pipeline to be very helpful.
Once again just so far this year in 2011 it's playing out as we anticipated.
We're clearly making progress in advancing our pipeline standing at nine Phase III molecule versus our goal of 10 by the end of this year.
I think our solid financial results is evident.
And we continue to see the countercyclical growth areas performing as we had anticipated as well as I talked about Japan Animal Health and our Emerging Markets.
These are the things that's going to allow us to be able to weather the impact of the patent erosions of products like Gemzar and Strattera going forward.
So hopefully you found this to be insightful.
We look forward to seeing many of you at our investor meeting in New York City on June 30 and to our continued interaction throughout the year.
Our IR team will be available to answer any questions that you guys may have at the conclusion of this call.
I hope everyone has a great day.
Take care.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay today after 11:00 a.m.
lasting through midnight on April 25.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference replay system at anytime by dialing 1(800)475-6701 entering the access code 197298.
International participants may dial 320-365-3844.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Q2 earnings call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to Vice President of Investor Relations Phil Johnson.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for joining us for Eli Lilly &amp; Co.'s Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Phil Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are our Chief Financial Officer Derica Rice; our Chief Scientific Officer Doctor Jan Lundberg; and Ronika Pletcher and Jill Thoren for Investor Relations.
Since we just provided a comprehensive overview of our business at our investment community meeting on June 30 today we'll limit our prepared remarks leaving more time for the Q&amp;A session.
During this conference call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on Slide 3 and those outlined in our latest forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decision.
Since the Q1 earnings call in April we've had a number of significant event many of them in our diabetes business.
On the regulatory front we had important news for Bydureon.
The European Commission granted final approval of BYDUREON the long-acting formulation of exenatide and the first once-weekly treatment for adults with type 2 diabetes.
We launched in the U.K.
last week with launches in other European countries expected over the course of 2011 in the first half of 2012.
We submitted BYDUREON to regulatory authorities in Japan and along with Amylin we completed the thorough QT study to support the U.S.
NDA for BYDUREON.
In the study when administered at and above therapeutic levels exenatide did not prolong the corrected QT interval in healthy individuals.
Further the study found no relationship between QTc interval and plasma exenatide concentrations.
We intend to submit our reply to the FDA's Complete Response Letter in Q3.
We also had quite a bit of regulatory news on the linagliptin the FDA approval of linagliptin under the trade name Tradjenta for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes.
Along with Boehringer Ingelheim we launched the product here in the U.S.
in May presented as the first DPP4 inhibitor to be approved at one dosage strength with no dose adjustment is recommended for patients with kidney or liver impairment.
The Japanese Ministry of Health and Welfare (sic) [Ministry of Health Labor and Welfare] approved linagliptin under the trade name Trazenta.
Along with the eye [ph] we expect to launch the product in Japan later this quarter.
Continuing the string of rapid approvals regulatory authorities in Mexico and Brazil also approved linagliptin known there as Trayenta and launches in these countries are also expected in Q3.
In Europe the CHMP recommended approval of Trajenta and we expect final EC approval later this quarter.
Clearly we're very pleased with the significant progress achieved during Q2 in our diabetes business.
In non-diabetes regulatory news along with Bristol-Myers Squibb we submitted the sBLA for Erbitux in first-line non-small cell lung cancer.
On the clinical front at ASCO we presented positive data from PARAMOUNT the second study to evaluate the use of Alimta's maintenance therapy in patients with advanced nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer and the first study to evaluate the use of continuation maintenance with Alimta following first-line Alimta plus cisplatin therapy.
Based on data from PARAMOUNT we submitted our dossier [ph] in Europe earlier this year.
And we plan to submit here in the U.S.
once we have more mature overall survival data.
On the business development front we received final EC approval for and finally closed on our acquisition of Janssen's animal health business.
We signed an exclusive worldwide collaboration agreement with Synthes under which the 2 companies will jointly develop site-specific bone-healing products.
The companies will also conduct and fund the evaluation of additional orthopedic uses for Forteo.
In addition to the development component of the agreement the collaboration includes the co-promotion of Forteo to orthopedic surgeons in the U.S.
and in select o U.S.
countries.
We signed agreements with private investors to establish BioCritica.
Based in Indianapolis BioCritica will initially focus on the continued U.S.
development and commercialization of Xigris for severe sepsis.
BioCritica will acquire the U.S.
development and commercialization rights to Xigris and will also receive the rights to potentially acquire several critical care compounds currently in pre-clinical development of Lilly.
The collaboration agreement also includes an option for BioCritica to acquire the development and commercialization rights to Xigris outside the U.S.
at a later date.
We entered into a collaboration with Medtronic to research and development new approach to treating Parkinson's disease that involves delivering a potential new medicine to the brain using an implantable drug delivery system.
Specifically the goal of the collaboration is to develop a therapeutic approach for Parkinson's disease that combines the strengths of Lily's biologic a modified form of glial cell derived neurotrophic factor with Medtronic's implantable drug infusion system technology.
Lastly on the legal front the Supreme Court denied Lilly's petition to reconsider a federal appeals court ruling invalidating the Gemzar method of used patent.
And the judge for the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of Indiana ordered all generic drug manufacturers challenging the validity of the crack compound patent for Cymbalta not to sell a generic version of duloxetine until the patent expires.
As a result we do not expect generic duloxetine come into market until the Cymbalta patent expires in June 2013 or December 2013 if we're successful in obtaining the six-month pediatric exclusivity.
Now as a background Ronika will discuss our Q2 financial results and provide our pipeline update and Derica will then cover key events to our major 2011 and our financial guidance for the year.
Ronika? Thanks Phil.
As we've done on previous calls we'll focus our comment on non-GAAP results which we believe provide insights into our underlying trends in our business.
This view excludes certain items such as restructuring charges asset impairments and other special charges.
I'll start on Slide 6 with a quick look at our Q2 income statement.
On a non-GAAP basis you can see that we generated robust revenue growth of 9% this quarter.
Excluding Gemzar outside of Japan and the effective view of health care reform revenue would've grown 13%.
Compared to Q2 2010 gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased 1.8 percentage points but we're still strong at 80.4%.
This decrease is entirely due to the effective changes in foreign exchange rates on international inventories sold.
Operating expenses defined as the sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A grew 12% this quarter.
This increase was driven primarily by SG&amp;A which increased 16% over an increase in R&amp;D with 6%.
Drivers of the increase in operating expense include expenses related to our diabetes alliance with Boehringer Ingelheim the unfavorable effect of changes in foreign exchange rates higher sales and marketing expenses to support launches of new products and new indications as well as the pharmaceutical manufacturers fee associated with U.S.
health care reform which was roughly $45 million.
Excluding the effect of U.S.
health care reform and the BI alliance operating expenses would've grown 7%.
Other income and deductions was in net expense of $58 million this quarter which was higher than it was last year.
The higher net expense was due to a write-down in the value of the liprotamase asset as a result of the FDA Complete Response Letter we received in April in which the agency requested additional clinical data.
Our tax rate was 20.9% this quarter or 1.6 percentage points lower than in Q2 2010.
This reduction is primarily due to the R&amp;D tax credit that was not in effect during Q2 2010 but was in effect during Q2 2011.
At the bottom line our non-GAAP EPS decreased 5% from $1.24 to $1.18.
Consistent with the 2011 guidance we provided in January we saw a robust EPS growth in our business in Q2 excluding U.S.
health care reform the effect of Gemzar patent expiration outside of Japan and investments related to the BI diabetes alliance.
Excluding these items EPS would've grown in the high teens.
Slide 7 shows our reported income statement while Slide 8 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS.
Additional details about our reported earnings are available in today's earnings press release.
Now let's look at foreign exchange and its effect on our Q2 revenue.
As you can see on Slide 9 total revenue growth of 9% was again driven by solid volume growth of 5%.
This quarter foreign exchange contributed the remaining 4% while price had virtually no impact on worldwide revenue growth.
We continue to see strong volume growth from our 3 counter cyclical growth drivers: Japan Animal Health and emerging market.
Volume growth in Japan was 15% driven by the recent launches of Cymbalta and Forteo.
Recall that the Q1 precautionary buying as a result of the Japanese earthquake and its aftermath increased Q1 sales by about $30 million to $35 million.
As expected this was largely worse in Q2 trimming Japan's volume growth this quarter by about 6 percentage points.
Unlike the Animal Health volume growth was 16% in Q2 driven by the increase in demand for food animal products globally as well as the launch of Trifexis in the U.S.
the continued expansion of our PA [ph] animal business globally and the acquisition of certain European animal health assets from Pfizer.
Finally embedded within the Rest of World line is our emerging markets revenue growth of 11% in volume and 13% overall.
Particularly noteworthy was China's revenue growth of 20% volume and 26% overall.
This quarter it is worth reviewing the effect of foreign exchange on the rest of our income statement.
While FX did not have a large effect on EPS growth it did affect individual line item.
Slide 10 shows the year-on-year growth of select line items of our non-GAAP income statement both with and without the effective changes in foreign exchange currencies.
The numbers in the first column are the same as those used on the last column on Slide 6.
Let's focus on the second column of the numbers which groups out the effect of foreign exchange rate.
First you'll see the 5% growth in revenue I mentioned earlier.
Below that you'll see that cost of sales and gross margin also grew 5%.
This is consistent with the statement that the reduction in gross margin as a percentage of revenue was entirely due to the effect of foreign exchange on international inventories sold.
In total operating expenses grew 9% excluding FX.
This increase was driven by the BI deal the launch of new products and indications and the pharmaceutical industry fee.
Since the increase in operating expense exceeded the increase in gross margin operating income declined 3% and EPS declined 4%.
You can see that while FX had a material impact on revenue cost of sales and operating expense it really almost had no impact on operating income for the EPS this quarter.
So while FX didn't have much of an impact on EPS growth U.S.
health care reform the effect of due of our patent expirations outside of Japan and the investments related to the BI alliance certainly did.
As mentioned earlier excluding these items EPS would've grown in the high teens.
On Slide 11 you'll find year-on-year growth of these same items on our income statement on a reported basis both with and without FX.
Now before turning the call over to Derica let me provide a brief update on our pipeline.
On Slide 12 you'll find a view of our portfolio of new molecular entities in clinical development as of July 11 inclusive of the changes since our April update.
Our clinical phase portfolio now stands at 70 to state [ph] including 33 compounds in Phase II and Phase III.
Biotech molecules represent over 40% of our Phase II and Phase III assets as well as our overall clinical portfolio.
Advancing our pipeline remains our number one priority.
As reflected by the arrows you can see that since our April update we received FDA approval for and launched Tradjenta; we've had two assets in the Phase II testing; we advanced an additional 3 assets in the Phase I testing including our basal insulin RGs [ph].
We expect to begin pivotal trials for this molecule before year end and we terminated development of one Phase I asset.
As Doctor Lundberg shared during our investment community meeting on June 30 we're very pleased with the progress we've made building a robust high-quality pipeline with many potential opportunities to advance patient care and nasal [ph] diseases with large unmet needs as well as commercial opportunity.
We're on track to meet or exceed our goal of having 10 entities in Phase III by year end and believe that our current pipeline provides the foundation for Lilly to return to growth post-2014.
Derica? Thanks Ronika.
To set the stage for our financial guidance let me briefly cover some of the key events for the remainder of the year.
As mentioned earlier having now received the CHMP recommendation for approval of linagliptin we look forward to the European Commission approval later this quarter and then launching the product in Europe later this year.
In addition to our successes so far this year we have a number of other potential regulatory approvals in the U.S.
this year including Cialis for BPH by aide in combination with basal insulin; and Erbitux for first-line head and neck cancer.
Expect the regulatory submissions include our response to the FDA Complete Response Letter for BYDUREON the sBLA for Erbitux and first-line metastatic colorectal cancer and our response to the FDA Complete Response Letter for Amyvid.
We continue to expect a maturing of our mid to late stage pipeline as Phase III trials could begin this year for one our novel basal insulin analog and our new insulin glargine product as well as our anti-IL-17 monoclonal antibody.
Finally on the legal front at anytime we could have rulings from the CAFC on the Strattera patent challenge and from the District Court in Delaware on the Alimta patent challenge.
Now you may recall that in the Alimta case the judge had indicated from the bench that a ruling would be issued in Lily's favor.
Now in terms of our 2011 financial guidance we've updated the guidance issued in April for a number of factors including continued strong volume growth in revenue driven by our 3 counter-cyclical growth engines and our patent-protected brand; secondly stronger foreign currencies which drives up the expected growth rates of revenue SG&amp;A and R&amp;D; thirdly very prompt approval to linagliptin in multiple markets which is driving an increase in expected SG&amp;A spend in 2011 as well as some additional expected revenue; and fourthly the write-down of the intangible value of liprotamase which is driving higher expected net other expense for the year.
In total these changes result in an increase in narrowing of our non-GAAP EPS guidance.
We now expect 2011 non-GAAP earnings per share of between $4.25 and $4.35.
Our 2011 reported EPS guidance range of $3.85 to $3.95 reflects the $0.23 IPR&amp;D charge from the BI alliance and $0.17 in restructuring charges for the first half of the year.
Now these changes have resulted in updates to the most of the individual line items as well.
Revenue is now expected to grow in the mid-single digits while we expect the gross margin as a percent of revenue to decline by 2 to 3 percentage points.
SG&amp;A growth is now expected to be in the high single digits and R&amp;D growth is now expected to be in the low single digits.
Other income is now forecast to be a net loss in the range of $100 million to $175 million.
We still expect our 2011 effective tax rate will be approximately 21% on a non-GAAP basis and approximately 20% on a reported basis.
And we expect capital expenditures to be in the range of $700 million to $800 million.
Now Slide 15 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS for 2010 and the associated growth rates from these numbers to our revised 2011 guidance.
In summary 2011 continues to play out as we had anticipated.
We're making progress advancing our pipeline and we're delivering solid financial result.
We remain on track to meet our goal of having 10 molecules in Phase III development by the end of this year.
And as John articulated on June 30 we're seeing promising signs that in addition to increasing in numbers our mid- to late-stage pipeline is increasing in quality as well.
We firmly believe that our current pipeline serves as the foundation to return to growth post-Years YZ.
We also remain on track to meet our 2011 headcount as expense containment goals helping to create the financial flexibility to invest in our pipeline our counter-cyclical growth engines in current brands as well as maintain the dividend.
In Q2 we saw this impact of the headwinds that we anticipated when we issued our 2011 financial guidance in January and when we updated that guidance on our Q1 earnings call in April.
These headwinds are patent expirations that are lowering sales of Gemzar outside of Japan; U.S.
health care reform which is exacting a higher cost this year than it did in 2010; and near-term dilution from our strategic diabetes alliance with Boehringer Ingelheim.
While we did see the negative impact in Q2 of these items we again delivered strong growth in the remainder of our business.
Excluding those 3 items on a non-GAAP basis we posted revenue growth of 13% operating expense growth of 7% and high-teens EPS growth.
Moving forward we will continue to focus on delivering a solid financial result improving productivity to allow for appropriate investment in our patent-protected products and our pipeline and outspeeding the next generation of Lilly molecules to market to provide growth post-Years YZ.
Now this concludes our prepared remarks and we will open the call for the Q&amp;A session.
Operator first caller please.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Marc Goodman from UBS.
Yes I was hoping you could give us a little more flavor for the volume growth of the product in Japan Cymbalta Zyprexa Alimta.
And then secondly can you give us a sense of a little more detail in the emerging markets? I know you mentioned the one growth rate for overall but can you give us a sense of besides China what else is going on what other launches are driving the business there? Okay Mark thank you for the question.
I will go ahead and take that question and Derica if you're free to kind if you like.
For emerging markets first is we mentioned on the call we definitely had very strong growth in China.
But in addition to that we're seeing growth in a number of other emerging markets spread across the Asia region.
And also very good growth still from the South American countries.
We do have some upcoming patent exposures.
We'll begin to see for example in Brazil weigh more heavily.
But we continue to see a very strong growth across a number of those geographies.
In Japan Marc it really is still pretty widespread and good growth.
Forteo for example is off to a very strong start with the launch on the second half of last year.
Cymbalta is doing very well.
The insulins are doing extremely well.
Alimta share growth has been extremely good since the launch there.
Going back I think that would have been earlier in 2010 again late 2009 so really broad-based growth across a number of products driving the Japanese performance.
Marc this is Derica.
The only thing I would add is if you look at Japan not only do we have a good growth but it's been sustained.
So we had about 40% 41% growth in the second quarter.
But we knew -- excuse me in the first quarter.
But we knew that had some buy-in as a result of the earthquake and the tsunami.
But if you were to normalize for that with a de-stocking that we saw in the second quarter we basically about 30% to 31% growth in each of the first 2 quarters of this year.
Yes.
We had about as Ronika mentioned $30 million to $35 million of buy-in.
We think in the first quarter about $20 million $25 million if I work its way out in the second quarter.
And our next caller comes from the line of Tim Anderson from Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> A few questions.
Pfizer said it'll be getting rid of its animal health business and that's obviously an area that you continue to invest in.
And I'm wondering why it wouldn't make sense for Lilly to go after that? Would it just be an antitrust issue? Second question is on your Phase III trials for your version of insulin glargine.
Are you going to have Lantus as an active comparator? And then the last question just on the Janssen animal health business.
I don't believe we have any financial details there and I'm wondering how that ties into the 2011 guidance.
Is that deal an accretive transaction for you? Okay.
Tim thanks for the questions.
We'll have Derica go ahead and take maybe your first and a comment on the third.
And then Jill and Jan will handle the glargine question please.
Derica? Okay.
Tim in regards to our animal health business your 2 questions one in regards to Pfizer's decision around our own animal health business I think it's very early to speculate as to what the nature of the transaction that we'll be seeking whether it'll be a sale a spend or an outright IPO.
I think it's still to be determined.
So at this stage it will be really speculative on our part.
Clearly we will watch how that situation evolves.
And if there are some assets that become available that we're interested in then yes we will pursue them.
But we're very happy as well with our -- the current state of our Elanco animal health business.
And right now we're the fastest growing entity in that space and we feel very good about the launches that Jeff talked about in New York where we've had 6 launches so far this year coming from our own pipeline.
So with or without an additional transaction we believe we have the capacity to sustain the type of growth that you've seen through this point.
And in fact in the second quarter this year and in the second quarter here Elanco grew actually 20%.
In regards to the impact of the Janssen deal that we just closed this year it's basically neutral to the bottom line.
And Tim in terms of the financial this is one that if you look at industry sources like that notes [ph] you'll likely see that Janssen sales indicated that roughly $200 million or so for 2010.
We would encourage you to keep in mind that does include sales of their products in markets where they're actually going through a distributor the actual sales that they would have prior are we going forward when we book would be less than that $200 million-type level.
Jan? In relation to our insulin glargine product which has an intense human testing we will use Lantus as comparator in Phase III trial.
Our next question comes from the line of Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.
Derica my question relates to the Boehringer Ingelheim deal.
So projected sales posted $5.6 million.
This quarter obviously very early to tell.
But if you could just remind us how that deal works? Because I think you had talked about achieving accretion next year or the year after I don't remember but I'm wondering if that is dependent on you reaching a certain level of sales with Tradjenta? Or is there a flexibility built into the contract to reduce spending if you're not getting to the level that you anticipate? And also so you're increasing your SG&amp;A spend for the back half of the year.
I'm just wondering what's changed? Because we -- the BI deal has been known the pharmacy fees have been known et cetera et cetera.
So just if you could just provide a little bit more granularity on what additional levels of spend and is it behind the Tradjenta launch? Sure Jami.
In regards to the BI ideal essentially it's a profit share if you look in terms of the deal structure itself.
Clearly we've had very good news around that brand.
So we got -- received an earlier than expect to launch both in the U.S.
as well as in some of the key markets outside the U.S.
like Mexico like Brazil like Japan.
So when you look at our SG&amp;A spend guidance for the year the primary driver of the increase is FX related similar to what we talked about on the top line.
But at the same time we are supporting the earlier launches of Tradjenta in those key markets that I highlighted.
So those are the 2 factors.
And in terms of characterization we've been getting in the past we talked about their being dilution obviously higher this year driven by the upfront charge that we had in the first quarter and then lessening between 2012 and '13 and then turning positive '14 and beyond.
We obviously would have like it little more dilution this year given the incremental investment codes [ph] on some of these approval and launches coming towards the earlier end of the spectrum of what was contemplated.
However we're potentially making up for that and more in our full year guidance by the raise that you've seen on a non-GAAP basis.
And now we'll go to the line of Steve Scala from Cowen.
LLC</strong> In the Zyprexa commentary in the press release Lilly states it is difficult to predict the precise timing and magnitude of the impact on Zyprexa sales from the introduction of generics.
This language was not in the Q1 release to my knowledge.
May I ask why Lilly believes it is difficult to predict the timing and the magnitude? What is unusual about this situation? There was no similar language for instance in the Strattera paragraph.
And what percent of U.S.
Zyprexa sales are protected by contracts that extend into 2012 and therefore will not be impacted by the patent expiration? Steve what's really centered around that is the nature of the erosion curb.
I mean we know exactly the date when we lose the official patent.
But what you will see is probably as we go through this there will be an impact on our returns policy.
So for at the time of the product goes generic how much inventory will actually be sitting out in the retail channel which creates an exposure turn of returns.
The second is with the actual adoption rate in terms of generic utilization will be in terms of buying power and patterns of wholesalers as well as formularies.
So that's where the unpredictable nature of this comes in.
But we think we've accounted for a reasonable estimate of that in the guidance range that we provided.
And even with those types of uncertainties if you heard from Phil earlier in on the call we still have a strong enough underlying business fundamental that has enabled us to be in a position to raise our guidance overall.
And next caller goes to the line of David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.
I have 3 questions.
And I apologize if any of these have been asked.
I joined the call a little late.
So first of all is a financial question for Derica.
And then I have 2 product questions.
With respect to Slide 9 it indicates that U.S.
price had a 0% impact on year-over-year revenue growth.
Can you just explain to us how you reflected the negative impact of health care reform in that line? I'm assuming that that is what brought that down to 0% given numerous list price increases for U.S.
products.
Second how do you see Effient competing with Rowenta [ph]? And could you characterize how we should think about the competition playing out in the U.S.
differently from x U.S.
market? And then third how much of a positive read should investors take away from a futility analysis later this year that results in solanezumab continuing to completion meaning could you give us a sense for how low or high the efficacy bar is in the futility assessment? Derica's on the first one and Jan will handle your second 2 questions Dave.
David in regards to the U.S.
price it's really being affected by 2 factors.
One is the incremental impact of U.S.
health care reform both the full year effect of U.S.
health care reform as well as the introduction of a donut hole provision.
The second thing that impacting it is also the erosion of Gemzar in the U.S.
the price erosion.
Those are the 2 things that are allowing our net effect of selling price impact to be 0.
Jan? Right.
So let me start with the antiplatelet agents.
As you all know Effient is a irreversible once-daily antiplatelet while Brilinta is a reversible twice-daily agent.
A key difference is that in the Effient studies which of course are not the same as the Brilinta studies.
And to really compare them we need direct head-to-head studies.
But the U.S.
patients in the Effient studies did better than Plavix but for some still unclear reason in Brilinta.
The U.S.
patients actually did better on Plavix than on Brilinta with which it's a discrepancy for Brilinta to the whole world data.
There is also some dyspnea some side effects with Brilinta that Effient doesn't have.
So for the moment I think we have here 2 effective antiplatelet agents in the more whole world populations while in the U.S.
population Effient did better.
And the FDA I think took that interpretation into actually saying that Brilinta should not be used when you have a high aspirin dose which clearly Effient can be used when you have.
And since I think the U.S.
treatment paradigm today has a high number of high aspirin in combinations it is actually would favor Effient.
But overall we need the head-to-head studies to really make a direct comparison.
In relation to solanezumab and the futility analysis that will come up later this year this is a judgment then of the DMC of the benefit-risk component.
They will look clearly at safety as well as futility of efficacy and this is their judgment.
But my interpretation is that since Alzheimer's disease is a very serious disease there is no real treatment to stop progression of disease.
And we don't really know today when would the potential effect start of preventing than amyloid.
So my feeling is this will be a judgment call for the DMC.
And whatever the outcome we need to wait for the full study before we can draw any clear conclusions.
Our next question comes from the line of John Boris from Citi.
First question just in light of budget negotiations in Washington there is some risk at least some would believe that's been weighing on the group that the government may come back and look for some additional funds.
And obviously the dual eligible side that could be pointed to do you believe that that provision potentially could be pulled during budget negotiations? Just your thoughts around what the risk is around that and what the impact would be.
And then one question for Jan has to do with the SGLT-2.
The profile does he believe the increased bladder cancer risk is a class effect? Is that something that we might see with the Boehringer compound along with the liver toxicity that we've seen? And then one final question just has to do with AG using an authorized generics strategy on Zyprexa and Cymbalta just your thoughts around that.
Great.
So we'll have Derica take your first question John and then Jan for the SGLT-2 question.
And I'll handle your AG question.
As it relates to the debate or discussion around the deficit-reduction challenge in the U.S.
clearly it's still very early and it's hard to draw any conclusion based upon the dialogue at least that I'm aware of.
But for the kinds of things that are being debated if they were to want to introduce with Medicaid-type rebate into Medicare Part D that would be a profound impact not only for Lilly but for the industry.
And so that's something we would not support and I don't think our industry peers would either.
Along those same lines we also would not be supportive of reducing the bio -- data protection from biologics or the strengthening of the position of iPad.
So these all group concerns that we have.
And obviously we continue to engage in discussion and dialogue with the parties at hand.
And if any of those were to move forward then they would clearly have an impact on jobs in the U.S.
and I don't think that's where we all want to go given the budget discussions that we had in trying to stimulate the economy.
Jan? With regards to the SGLT-2 class it is important to remember that this is an agent which has quite a unique action that is independent of insulin secretion.
And also this agent is lowering blood pressure and body weight.
So it has clear beneficial attributes.
In relation to the reported increase in cancer then for the BMS-AstraZeneca compound we have no evidence so far that this is happening with the empagliflozin.
Clearly we only have more short-term observations and we really need to have all the Phase III data before giving any definite answers.
We observed also single case of the high slow.
We have not seen that in our studies.
Just a final comment to come back to the cancer the reports here that there is no clinical data or mechanistic hypothesis that would support that there is an increased risk of for instance bladder cancer.
It's a finding.
Like always safety is paramount and we need to observe this and be cautious about the future.
And John to refer to your question on potential authorized generic for Zyprexa or Cymbalta let me answer in sort of generally with.
What we will be doing each and every time that we do have a patent expiration whether it be an injectable like we have with Gemzar or oral small molecule like Zyprexa or Cymbalta.
We'll definitely look at a host of different options and I think it's safe to assume that we have in both occasions already done planning looking at different things to see what is the most appropriate late life cycle strategy for the molecule.
I would say that is not the case where an AG would always be a preferred approach.
So really it will be molecule-by-molecule basis.
If we were to elect not to do one on the next one up for example I wouldn't take that as indication that we didn't like the way that AG went with Gemzar.
In fact we've felt that has gone quite well.
And if we would be one for example on Zyprexa I don't know if that would mean necessarily we would do well on Cymbalta.
It really does come down to what the lines of business the customer groups that these products go to capabilities or partners et cetera.
We'll keep you posted but at that this time we have no comment specifically on what would be planned what would be likely for the Zyprexa.
And we'll go to the line of Seamus Fernandez from Leerink Swann.
Just 2 questions.
One for Jan.
Jan could you just -- I didn't know if there is any reason to think about the molecular structure of dapagliflozin as a C-glucoside versus the molecular structure of the Boehringer Ingelheim compound relative to possible liver effects.
So maybe you can weigh in on that.
And then separately can you just update us on any price changes that have occurred incrementally in Europe versus your expectations? And update us on any proposals that may actually be out there as we work through the incremental possibilities of the debt crisis.
We'll go to Jan for the first question and then I'll try to answer your question on the looking forward in Europe what we're going to be expecting what's happened very recently.
In relation to structural activity relationships in relation to potential liver effects of the SGLT-2 agents I think it's too early to make any conclusions based on a single case.
That's the first comment.
And secondly I think history tells us that liver effect can be direct but they can also be indirect to where the immune system et cetera could respond.
But I think for the moment we have to get our data for our compound before we do any conclusions about liver risks.
Seamus in terms of Europe there really have not been any substance to changes of late.
We have seen for example as we have been expecting sort of the next round of publishing of price referencing list in Greece in this June period.
It was very much in line with our expectations and do not have a significant impact on Lilly products.
The newest one I'm aware of probably would be some legislation passed in Poland that will take effect actually in January of 2012 so no impact to this year.
Where there will be agreement to go ahead and cap the government's expenditures on pharmaceuticals as a percent I believe of the overall health care spend with the industry providing some rebates if spend exceeds those levels.
Clearly with continued budget pressures in a number of countries we'll continue to monitor the situation.
We do think that there are already some pretty substantial cuts taken particularly on the pharmaceutical side of some of the health care and broader entitlement spending in European nations.
So we wouldn't expect that to be necessarily the first place for them to go.
But again we might have situation.
Clearly we're not out of the wood with the overall situation for the global economy.
We'll now go to the line of Catherine Arnold from Credit Suisse.
I'd like to ask a question or 2 about the pipeline.
If you could comment on where we are on the trilogy study for Effient is that still on track? I think it's to complete the first half of next year if data could be presented.
And the second half of next year was there anything about the Brilinta label that would be surprising relative to what your expectations were internally? And then lastly Arxxant is on your pipeline chart but I don't know if we've heard anything about that for a long time.
And I'm wondering why what's happening with this particular product? We'll have Ronika to take your first question on the status trilogy and I'll handle the last 2.
With regards to trilogy keep in mind that that an event-driven trial.
But the current estimate and we typically stick to what's estimated in clinicalresults.gov.
And that's estimated right now to complete in April of '12 so that trial's progressing and we look forward to that data.
And with regard to the label on Brilinta we'll probably act a little bit later today after we finished the call have a chance to debrief more fully with the team who evaluated that when it came out after the close yesterday.
So at this point I don't have a specific comment for you under any items that were surprising.
If Jan you've heard anything from the team or not? I think for the moment we are still discussing.
And in terms of Arxxant Catherine so as you're probably aware a number of years ago we had submitted to the FDA for the diabetic retinopathy.
Indication have received I guess what now would be called the Complete Response Letter to basically asking us to provide them with more substantive data around the visual acuity.
So we're in the process of completing the last diabetic macular edema study that could potentially furnish the date of the FDA is looking for.
Last that I had was a petrol [ph] with concludes or late this year.
I think the latest may be early next year.
Once we have that data in hand then we will either decide do we submit to the FDA ask them to reconsider the application or do we pull the NDA with the agency? Let's go to the line of Greg Gilbert from Bank of America.
I have 2 questions.
First I was hoping you could offer any preliminary thoughts on how the Medco express combo could affect Lilly.
And if you don't have anything specific to say yet maybe you could offer up conceptually what types of things you're going to look into to be able to answer that question down the line? And secondly Derica can you offer any color on SG&amp;A and R&amp;D lumpiness between 3Q and 4Q? Regard to the Medco express it's still early.
We do not anticipate there's going to have a material impact on Lilly.
I think the bigger impact may actually be on the health plans themselves that they service in terms of going from reducing the number of players.
For us we obviously feel very good about the attributes of our brand.
And then maybe at the therapeutic area where we compete today there is already low-cost generic options available yet our brands have held up very well.
So in cases like depression or even in schizophrenia with reason all being generic.
So we're not anticipating that this is going to have a material impact on Lilly at this stage but once again still early.
In regard to the Q3 or Q4 impact of SG&amp;A and R&amp;D I think it's pretty much embedded in our guidance and the color I've provided earlier.
If you're looking at SG&amp;A primarily what you're seeing in terms of our change in our line item guidance is the impact of exchange rate both in SG&amp;A and R&amp;D.
And then more specifically for SG&amp;A it's also the impact of the earlier spend launch spend behind Tradjenta.
And we've considered that to be a huge positive force.
We now go to the line of Chris Schott from JPMorgan.
Just the first couple of questions were on Zyprexa.
Maybe the first one would be I was reading about Zyprexa in Europe can you talk about the severity of generic erosion you're anticipating here given that some of these market obviously historically have had lower rates of generic penetration.
My second question on Zyprexa was with the upcoming patent expiration can you just help us a little bit to understand a lot better the impacted gross margin and quantify how much of an impact to gross margin we should expect due to the loss of that franchise? We'll have Ronika handle the first one.
I think Derica will take a shot at your second question.
So with regard to Zyprexa and the patent expirations in Europe you might keep in mind that in major Europe we actually lost patent in Spain and some smaller other countries in this past quarter.
We didn't see much erosion but expect to see additional erosion as we go through the year.
With regard to the rest of major Europe the patent will actually expire in September.
And keep in mind we would again expect to see additional erosion as that occurs.
Derica? Chris in regard to the impact of the gross margin as well I will not quantify the specific.
I can give you a clear directional impact and it’s detrimental.
So when we lose a brand like Zyprexa and with its level of profitability you'll see an unfavorable impact to our gross margin line as that plays through our P&amp;L and financial results.
One of the other things Chris I had to keep in mind for European erosion we may be in a little bit different environment now in some of the countries in the past had slower erosion.
I think it became pretty apparent to many of the payers that there would be very large brand and a large number of them coming off patent.
And then the fact that we've positioned themselves to benefit as they should from those patent expirations.
So much of the action that you saw in 2010 even was really directed against reducing prices of generic and setting up situations where once a branded product goes generic so the initial price was for generics will come out lower.
You probably put this in detail that in many products you've seen in the past that branded price will be a little lower in Europe than here in the U.S.
But actually the generic price will be substantially higher in Europe than here in the U.S.
So again I think you're going to see a stronger push to use generics more quickly and more fully in some of the markets in the past may have been slow-erosion markets.
And then our final question comes from the line of Seamus Fernandez from Leerink Swann.
Just a quick follow-up on the Effient versus the Brilinta situation.
Can you just at least in terms of the launch trajectory and the percentage share that you currently have of the incident ACS patient population can you guys update us on that? I think earlier you had given us an estimate of I think about 11% share at one point and I'm just wondering where we sit today at least in the U.S.
market on a relative basis.
All right.
Seamus we'll have Ronika to hear.
You found some of the updated data? Right.
So you might remember Seamus we've gotten some excitingly so traction with regard to Brilinta over the last -- excuse me with regard to proxy grow over the last couple of quarters.
We've seen there as we've seeing quarter-over-quarter nice trends with our TRx.
We're still seeing continued growth with regards to new to brand which has been very impressive given where we are in the current launch.
Right now that exceeds about 13%.
Again we are seeing about 1 in 5 ACS patients and STEMI type specifically are receiving Effient which is pretty impressive.
And so we hope that that traction continues.
Again we are seeing quarter-over-quarter growth in our NRx and TRx and are excited by this trend as doctors continue to accept and try prozigro [ph] or Effient.
With no further callers on the queue I'll go ahead and turn over to Derica to wrap-up the call.
Well let me conclude by first of all thanking all of you for joining us for this morning's call and more specifically for your questions.
We hope that the information we provided today is helpful for your investment of Lilly's financial performance and for our end of our future prospect.
As always the IR team will be available to answer any additional questions you may have.
And I look forward to our continued dialogue and I hope you all have a great day.
Take care.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 11 a.m.
Eastern Time today through July 28.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 207464.
International participants dial (320) 365-3844 with the access code of 207464.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Q3 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
Your host and speaker Vice President of Investor Relations Phil Johnson.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
And thanks for joining us for Eli Lilly &amp; Co.'s Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Phil Johnson Vice President Of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are John Lechleiter our Chief Executive Officer; Derica Rice our Chief Financial Officer; Dr.
Jan Lundberg our Chief Scientific Officer; Dave Ricks who's currently President of our U.S.
affiliate and as announced last week Dave will assume the role of President of our Biomedicine business upon Bryce Carmee's [ph] retirement at the end of the year; and we have Ronika Pletcher and Elisa Razner [ph] for Investor Relations.
During this conference call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on Slide 3 and those outlined on latest forms 10-K and 10-Q filed for Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information we provide about our product and pipeline is for the benefit of investment community.
It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
Let's begin with a recap of events since our Q2 earnings call.
We had multiple developments on the regulatory front.
The European Commission granted final approval for Trajenta for adults with type 2 diabetes.
EU launches have begun starting with the U.K.
Launches in other European countries are expected over the balance of 2011 and the first half of 2012.
Despite initial impasse we hope to reach an agreement with local authorities that allows Trajenta to be made available to German patients.
The FDA approved Cialis for once-daily use for the treatment of men who have signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia or BPH and men who have both erectile dysfunction and signs and symptoms of BPH.
Cialis is the only medication approved by the FDA to treat both ED and BPH.
Just last night the FDA approved BYETTA for use with insulin glargine.
Europe's CHMP issued a positive opinion for use of ALIMTA as a continuation maintenance therapy in patients with nonsquamous non-small-cell lung cancer after initial treatment with ALIMTA plus cisplatin.
We expect EC approval during Q4.
Along with Amylin and Alkermes we submitted our reply to the FDA's Complete Response Letter for Bydureon and the FDA assigned a PDUFA goal date of January 28 2012.
We also submitted our reply to the FDA's Complete Response Letter for Amyvid a PET imaging agent under investigation for the detection of beta-amyloid plaque in the brains of living patients.
And finally we submitted the sBLA for ERBITUX in first-line metastatic colorectal cancer.
On the business development front we entered into 2 different agreements to bolster our diabetes presence in India.
First we entered into collaboration with Lupin Limited under which Lupin will promote Humulin in India and Nepal.
And we expanded our collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim to include co-promotion Linagliptin by Lilly and copromotion of Humalog by Boehringer Ingelheim.
Also in an earlier stage of this development initiative we launched a new platform called Open Innovation Drug Discovery to both build our own pipeline and identify molecules that may be useful in the treatment of multiple-drug resistant tuberculosis.
On the legal front the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit ruled in Lilly's favor in the Strattera patent case overturning a prior ruling by the U.S.
District Court in New Jersey and upholding the Strattera method-of-use patent which will expire in May 2017.
The defendants filed a motion for rehearing en banc and earlier this week the court denied their request.
Lastly in important news for our industry and for Lilly.
The America Invents Act was signed into law.
Not only will this new law align U.S.
patent laws more closely to those of other countries but we believe it will improve U.S.
competitiveness by: reducing the backlog of patent applications enhancing the quality of issued patents; and providing greater certainty for those that invest in innovation.
Now with background Ronika will discuss our Q3 financial results and provide our pipeline update.
And then Derica will cover our financial guidance for 2011 and key events for the remainder of 2011 and 2012.
Ronika? Thanks Phil.
As we've done on previous calls we'll focus our comments on non-GAAP results which we believe provide insight into the underlying trends in our business.
This view excludes certain items such as restructuring charges asset impairments and other special charges.
We'll also provide commentary on our Q3 results excluding the effect of headwinds that were highlighted in previous discussions of both our quarterly performance and our 2011 guidance.
I'll start on Slide 6 with a quick look at our Q3 income statement.
On a non-GAAP basis you can see that we generated robust revenue growth in this quarter excluding Gemzar outside of Japan and the effect of U.S.
healthcare reform revenue would have grown 15%.
Compared to Q3 2010 gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased 4.3 percentage points to 78.2%.
This decrease is primarily due to the effective changes in foreign exchange rates on international inventories sold and to a lesser extent a negative mix effect.
Operating expense defined as the sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A grew 10% this quarter.
This increase was driven primarily by SG&amp;A which increased 13% while the increase in R&amp;D was 5%.
Drivers of increase in operating expenses included: costs related to our diabetes alliance with Boehringer Ingelheim including late-stage clinical trial expense; the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates as well as the pharmaceutical manufacturing fee associated with U.S.
healthcare reform which was roughly $45 million.
Excluding the effect of U.S.
healthcare reform and the Boehringer Ingelheim alliance operating expenses would have grown 3% with this amount entirely driven by foreign exchange.
Other income and deductions was a net expense of $83.4 million this quarter which was higher than last year.
The higher net expense was due to a partial write-down and the IPR&amp;D value of Amyvid due to a revised assumption for the timing of a potential regulatory approval and sales uptake.
Our tax rate was 17.9% this quarter or 4.6 percentage points lower than Q3 2010.
The largest item driving this reduction is the recognition of a discrete tax benefit of $45.4 million primarily as a result of a resolution of the company's 2007 IRS tax audit.
At the bottom line our non-GAAP EPS decreased 7% from $1.21 to $1.13.
Consistent with the 2011 guidance we provided in January we saw robust EPS growth in our business in Q3 excluding U.S.
healthcare reform the effect of Gemzar patent expiration outside of Japan and investments related to the Boehringer Ingelheim diabetes alliance.
Excluding these items EPS would have grown in the mid-20% range.
Slide 7 shows our reported income statement while Slide 8 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS.
Additional details about our reported earnings are available in today's earnings press release.
Now let's look at how foreign exchange affected our Q3 revenue.
As you can see on Slide 9 total revenue growth of 9% was again driven by solid volume growth of 4%.
This quarter foreign exchange was -- also contributed 4% while price had a negligible impact on worldwide revenue growth.
We continue to see strong volume growth from our 3 countercyclical engines: Japan animal health and emerging market.
In total these businesses delivered 15% volume growth in the quarter.
Volume growth continued to be strong in Japan at 20% driven by recent launches of both Cymbalta and Forteo.
Elanco Animal Health volume grew 22% in Q3 driven primarily by organic growth including increased demand for our food animal products and the continued expansion of our companion animal business.
The launch of Trifexis in the U.S.
has been particularly robust.
To a lesser extent this volume growth was driven by the acquisition of certain Hanson[ph] and Pfizer animal health assets in Europe.
Finally embedded within the rest of world line our emerging markets revenue grew 7% in volume and 5% overall.
Although the growth in emerging markets moderated relative to previous quarters particularly noteworthy was China's revenue growth of 22% in volume and 31% overall.
This quarter FX had a significant effect on EPS.
Slide 10 shows the year-on-year growth of our select line item of our non-GAAP income statement both with and without the effects of changes in foreign exchange rate.
The numbers in the first column are the same as those you saw on the last column on Page 6.
Let's focus on the second column of numbers which strip out the effect of foreign exchange.
First you'll see that the 4% growth in revenue I mentioned earlier.
Below that you'll see that cost of sales and gross margin grew 8% and 3% respectively.
This is consistent with the statement that the reduction in gross margin as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to the effect of foreign exchange on international inventories sold.
In total operating expense grew 7% excluding FX.
As mentioned earlier the increase was driven entirely by the Boehringer Ingelheim deal and the pharmaceutical industry fees.
Continuing on you'll see that excluding FX operating income declined 2% and EPS declined 1%.
So you can clearly see that FX had a significant negative effect on EPS this quarter lowering EPS growth by 6 percentage points to negative 7%.
In other words a favorable effect of FX on our foreign operating income was more than offset by the negative effect of FX on inventories sold.
Excluding U.S.
health care reform the effect of Gemzar patent expiration outside of Japan and the investments related to the BI diabetes alliance EPS would have grown in the mid-20s.
On Slide 11 you'll find year-on-year growth of the same items of our income statement on a reported basis both with and without FX.
Now before turning the call over to Derica let me provide a brief update on our pipeline.
On Slide 12 you'll find a view of our new molecular entities in clinical development as of October 10 inclusive of changes since our July update.
Our clinical stage portfolio now stands at 66 distinct NMEs including 34 compounds in Phase II and Phase III.
Biotechnology represents half of our Phase II and Phase III assets as well as nearly half of our overall clinical portfolio.
We continue to make progress in advancing our pipeline.
Since July we began Phase III testing of our new insulin glargine products and we now have 10 distinct compounds in Phase III testing with 2 more likely to begin before year end.
We advanced 3 assets in the Phase II testing including our Myostatin monoclonal antibody that Jan Lundberg discussed at our June investment community meeting.
We advanced 2 assets in the Phase I testing and we terminated or suspended development of 6 assets across our Phase I and Phase II portfolio.
In summary we have already achieved our goal of having 10 NMEs in Phase III by year end.
With Phase III starts expected this quarter for our innovative basal analog insulin and for Anti-IL-17 monoclonal antibody for psoriasis we could finish this year with 12 NMEs in Phase III testing.
We're pleased with our progress we've made building a robust high-quality mid- to late-stage pipeline with many potential opportunities to advance patient care in diseases with large unmet need as well as significant commercial opportunity.
As outlined at our Investment Community Meeting in June we believe our current pipeline provides the foundation for Lilly to return to growth post-2014.
Derica? Thanks Ronika.
Before providing our updated guidance I would like to talk through how the Zyprexa patent expiration will affect our income statement.
This may be particularly helpful as you update your models.
Now clearly this patent expiration which is essentially a U.S.
and European phenomenon will negatively affect our revenue and income causing our fourth quarter results to differ substantially from those we posted September year-to-date.
We lost the Zyprexa patent in most European countries last month.
This coming Sunday October 23 we'll lose patent protection for Zyprexa here in the U.S.
Now as you might expect during Q3 we saw the initial impact of the Zyprexa patent expiration.
Specifically we saw some reduction in wholesaler purchases in anticipation of reduced future sales of branded Zyprexa.
In addition we also made accruals to account for the potential future return of products that were sold to wholesalers during the third quarter.
In European markets we've already seen multiple generic companies enter the various markets offering very large discounts.
For example in Germany there are about 20 generic players and the initial generic pricing came in at about a 75% discount to Zyprexa's pre-patent expiry price.
Now here in the U.S.
while we expect rapid and significant erosion of the branded Zyprexa sale the competitive dynamic will be a bit different as we will have a single generic company marketing each presentation of olanzapine for the first 6 months post patent expiration.
Also as part of our late life-cycle planning we've entered into an authorized generic agreement here in the U.S.
with Prasco to allow them to market a generic version of olanzapine.
Now upon the expiration of the 6-month exclusivity period in late April of 2012 we would expect additional companies to market their own generic olanzapine leading to further sales erosion of Zyprexa.
In summary on the revenue line we expect to see a significant negative impact in Q4.
This is reflected in the fact that our worldwide revenue has grown 8% September year-to-date while our full year guidance for 2011 is for revenue growth in the mid-single digits.
As you think about the impact of the Zyprexa patent expiration on other line items of our income statement you should keep in mind a few items.
We do not expect Zyprexa-related manufacturing expenses to decrease at the same rate as sales.
While there will be some savings of variable production costs other fixed costs that had been absorbed by the production of Zyprexa will remain.
As a result the expected decline of Zyprexa sales will put downward pressure on our gross margin as a percent of revenue.
This is why we forecast gross margin as a percent of revenue for the full year 2011 to be between 78% and 79% despite the fact that it is at 79.5% for the first 9 months of the year.
Now in terms of marketing and selling expenses we currently have very little variable marketing spend behind Zyprexa during this late stage of its life cycle.
Consequently there will be minimal marketing savings post patent expiration.
The major spend behind Zyprexa has been the sales force.
Now you should not expect to see a significant reduction in sales force expense as a result of the Zyprexa patent expiration for 2 main reasons.
First beginning in late 2009 we restructured our U.S.
and then our European neuroscience sales forces.
Among other factors this restructuring took into account the CNS sales footprint needed post Zyprexa patent expiration.
Second keep in mind that Cymbalta's sold by these same sales forces and we remain committed to providing a competitive detailing effort behind this very important brand.
In a nutshell our strategy for managing costs leading up to the Zyprexa patent expiration has been to act early and not wait until the event itself was upon us.
Since 2004 we've been reducing headcount and driving productivity improvements across all areas of our business.
And since 2009 we've upped the pace of rightsizing our organization for the post-Zyprexa period significantly restructuring everything from our senior management layers to our back-office operation to our sales and marketing organization.
As a result of these efforts we fully expect to meet our goal of reducing our expenses by $1 billion by the end of this year.
This will essentially complete our restructuring effort.
While we will continue to drive incremental productivity we have no plans for a major restructuring.
Hopefully this additional color commentary on the impact of the Zyprexa patent expiration is helpful as you update your models.
Now let's review our updated 2011 financial guidance.
At a high level our updated guidance is very consistent with the guidance we issued on our July earnings call.
It reflects continued strong underlying performance of our business.
It also includes the discrete tax benefit and the additional charges recorded in Q3.
In total these changes result in an increase and narrowing of our EPS guidance.
On a non-GAAP basis we now expect 2011 EPS of between $4.30 and $4.35.
Our 2011 reported EPS guidance range of $3.89 to $3.94 reflects the $0.23 IPR&amp;D charge for the Boehringer Ingelheim alliance and $0.18 in restructuring recharges in the first 9 months of the year.
Our guidance on individual line items is largely unchanged.
Revenue is still expected to grow in the mid-single digits and the gross margin as a percent of revenue it is still expected to decline by 2 to 3 percentage points when compared to the full year of 2010.
SG&amp;A growth is still expected to be in high-single digits and R&amp;D growth is still expected to be in the low-single digits.
Our guidance for other income is now forecast to be a net loss in the range of $175 million to $225 million reflecting the partial impairment of the acquired in-process R&amp;D asset related to Amyvid.
As a result of the discrete tax benefit recognized this quarter we now expect our 2011 effective tax rate to be approximately 20% on a non-GAAP basis and approximately 19.5% on a reported basis.
And we now expect capital expenditures to be approximately $700 million.
Now Slide 15 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS for 2010 and the associated growth rates from these numbers to our revised 2011 guidance.
In terms of key future events highlights for the balance of 2011 include: potential FDA approval of ERBITUX for first-line head and neck cancer; the anticipated European Commission approval of ALIMTA as continuation maintenance therapy in non-squamous non-small-cell lung cancer; expected Phase III starts for our innovative basal analog insulin and our anti-IL-17 monoclonal antibody in psoriasis.
This would bring our Phase III portfolio to 12 new molecular entities exceeding our goal of 10.
We also expect to present key Phase II data on our CETP inhibitor at the American Heart Association meeting in November as well as for our anti-IL-17 and RA at the ACR meeting also in November.
And in psoriasis at the Jane D.
Clinic [ph] meeting in London in December.
Now in the interest of time I will not recite the full list of potential events for 2012.
But as you can see we have made a significant number of -- we have a significant number of potential regulatory actions Phase III trial completions and potential data disclosures.
We are clearly excited about the year ahead and are pleased with the progress we continue to make in advancing our pipeline.
This will remain our #1 priority.
Now as I mentioned on our July earnings call 2011 is playing out largely as we had expected.
We're delivering solid financial results as we head into the Zyprexa patent expiration and importantly we are making progress in advancing our pipeline.
As expected in Q3 we saw the impact of known headwinds including: patent expirations that are lowering sales of Gemzar outside of Japan U.S.
health care reform which is exacting a higher cost in 2011 than it did in 2010 and near term dilution from expenses associated with our strategic diabetes alliance with Boehringer Ingelheim.
Now while these headwinds negatively affected our Q3 results we again deliver strong underlying growth in the rest of our business.
Excluding these items on a non-GAAP basis we posted revenue growth of 15% operating expense growth of 3% and mid-20s percent EPS growth.
As you think about our future revenue you'll clearly need to factor in the patent expiration of Zyprexa in the U.S.
and Europe.
But I also like to highlight that in Q3 our countercyclical growth engines of Japan emerging markets and animal health collectively grew 19%.
And we had a number of key brands that posted double-digit worldwide revenue growth including: Cymbalta Humalog Strattera Forteo Cialis and ALIMTA.
We've already achieved our goal of having 10 molecules in Phase III development by the end of the year.
And we expect to begin Phase III testing of our innovative basal analog insulin and our anti-IL-17 monoclonal antibody in psoriasis before year end.
We firmly believe that our current pipeline serves as the foundation for Lilly to return to growth post-Years YZ.
Moving forward we will continue to focus on executing our 3-part strategy as we stated in June.
Replenishing and advancing our pipeline and for innovation-based biopharmaceutical company this is our future.
Second investing to drive growth in our countercyclical growth engines and key currently marketed brands particularly those that do not lose patent protection in the YZ period.
And third continue to drive productivity gains across our business that allow us to fund R&amp;D necessary to fuel our future growth recapitalize our physical assets and maintain our dividend.
Now this concludes our prepared remarks and we'll now open the call for the Q&amp;A session.
Operator first caller please.
[Operator Instructions]  First question's from the line of Steve Scala Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions both of which are on solanezumab.
Does the delay in the futility look allow for a view of the data reflecting a longer duration of treatment such as say 15 months as opposed to had the look occurred in the current quarter when perhaps it would've been more like 12 months or regardless of when the look was taken is the duration of treatment the same? That's the first question.
And then the second question is for Dr.
Lechleiter.
Do you view the final solanezumab Phase III result in the second quarter of 12 as just another Phase III readout? Or is this perhaps the most important data point for Lilly in years and will dictate where you lead the business? And perhaps asked differently is your current course viable if solanezumab should fail? I'll go ahead and take your first question have John answer the second.
The futility analysis had been originally scheduled for December and for purely logistical reasons the DMC rescheduled that to January.
So there is no particular change in the number of months number of patients type data that they would be reviewing at that particular review.
It was simply a logistical change that led to the movement from this year to next year.
John? Steve with respect to your second question obviously we're very interested in those results and we're very interested frankly in anything we can do to advance the cause of developing new therapies to treat Alzheimer's.
I will mention we have other molecules as well in various stages of development in our portfolio looking at the beta-amyloid and other mechanisms associated with Alzheimer's disease.
While this is a very important readout for us next year it's not something -- whether it's positive or negative is going to change our strategy or change the basic underlying assumptions that we're carrying forward as we go through YZ.
Our future does not depend on any single molecule including solanezumab there are soon to be 11 other molecules in Phase III.
And we'll go where the data takes us and proceed accordingly but we're really interested in prosecuting and moving forward that entire portfolio.
Steve this is Phil.
Before we go to the next caller as you're thinking about solanezumab also in relation to the financial projections that we had discussed in Derica's section of the Investment Community Meeting in June we have said all along this is a high-risk program.
It's very interesting science.
We're very hopeful of the potential outcome but we have recognized that it's high risk.
Essentially for the financial modeling what that means is it's a sign of relatively low probability of actually hitting if you will.
So that means for our financial projections if that low probability goes to 0 it really does not take them down very much.
If on the other hand it were to go ahead and go from that low probability to 1 it would have a substantial potential upside to those numbers.
Hope that's helpful.
Next question is from the line of Seamus Fernandez Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> Another pipeline question.
As we think about the prospects for the spend as you move through and into some of these new trials I do see that you have a potential move forward of the CETP inhibitor into Phase III.
Maybe John can you just talk a little bit strategically about your interest in the CETP inhibitor? And perhaps even -- there are many many CETP inhibitors in development across the industry would there be any interest in basically saying "Okay let's look across the different CETP inhibitors take the data and perhaps partner with someone else who has this and share the development cost given the risk profile associated with this still untested mechanism?" Seamus I can't speak specifically to the CETP inhibitor because we really need to wait and see the data as we share that in November.
But I think as we look at our pipeline obviously we're making decisions and looking at different things all the time that say "Should we alone with this or should we partner that one." Obviously we got a huge benefit I think from the deal we struck with BI earlier this year where we in essence got our 4 potential assets.
One of which is now launched Linagliptin shared between the 2 companies on a global basis.
And as we move new molecules into Phase III other programs begin to wind down.
So we're looking at this all the time and obviously we'll do what we think is in the best interest of the company and the shareholders as we make these decisions.
Next question from the line of Marc Goodman UBS.
Research Division</strong> First can you give us a little more color on the emerging markets maybe just talk about why it slowed a little bit maybe talk about a couple other countries.
And then second of all maybe you can talk about some of the products that moved into Phase III a little bit.
Is there any color you can give us -- mechanism of action? And maybe just a little bit more color there.
Deric you want to handle the first question? Maybe Jan can have the second please? Sure Phil.
Marc this is Derica.
We still are very pleased with our performance in the emerging markets.
And as I stated it's really playing out as we had expected.
What we saw in the third quarter is the beginning effects of Zyprexa patent erosion in the emerging markets and specifically in Brazil.
In markets like China where we haven't seen that that's why you saw the 22% volume growth there and the 31% growth overall.
So the growth that you saw in the third quarter is according to the expectations that we had laid out.
Jan? In relation to the new Phase III starts as you see on the pipelines slide we have a new insulin glargine opportunity that we have moved into Phase III.
This will fit very well into our diabetes portfolio overall and then help actually the choice for the physicians then to different patients.
We believe we have a very good agent and we are comparing this to Lantus statin in two Phase III trials both then in type 1 and type 2 diabetes for non-inferiority.
Furthermore with our expertise and in manufacturing and advanced devices we think we can be really competitive in this area.
Marc anything that you will see are some new names for what was previously on the chart as mGlu2/3 and NERI.
So you've got pomaglumotab methyanol [ph] which is mGlu2/3 so new name but same molecule and then edovoxotin [ph] which is NERI.
Next question's from the line of Chris Schott JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question was if you just elaborate a little bit more on the European pricing environment and how it's trending relative to your expectations.
I think most importantly kind of as we go forward how are you seeing 2012 and 2013 shaping up from a pricing perspective relative to 2011? Second question was on the insulin business.
Can you talk about the competitive response you've seen in the market? You're obviously doing very well with volume trends here.
Can you just talk about -- again are you seeing any different competitive response as you've regained some share? And then finally just color on Trajenta and how you see the EU opportunity for this product given some of the challenges that you highlighted in Germany? Deric go handle your first question I'll take a shot at the second too Chris.
Okay.
Chris regards to the current pricing situation in Europe it's actually playing fairly consistent with what we've seen historically.
If you look at our Q3 results you can see price was down about 1%.
Historically we typically see about a 1 to 2 percentage point erosion on an annual basis year-on-year so very much aligned.
Now obviously each government is acting at different points in time but we continue to be able to manage our way through that.
As I think about 2012 and 2013 at least in Europe we still see things playing out more or less along those lines.
Probably the biggest question from a pricing standpoint still remains in the U.S.
and what emerges from the discussion around the super budget committee and if there's any change as it relates to healthcare reform and dual eligibiles or so forth -- increases in rebate.
That's probably the biggest unknown from a pricing standpoint facing the industry at this stage.
Also on European pricing Chris probably since our last call the one thing that would've changed that would be the largest impact was in Spain where they instituted a couple of new measures one for those products that have been on the market for more than 10 years and for which there is no generic reference pricing group because there's no generic competition.
They had asked for a 15% rebate essentially on those products that compares to the 7.5% that they had been requesting prior.
And then probably and more materially for us here they went ahead and said that innovative formulations even if they are protected by patent protection would still be subject to reference pricing.
So specifically for us Velatab [ph] the rapid dissolving form of Zyprexa while it will not have generic competition in Spain it probably has now been pegged to the reference pricing for the generic olanzapine group broadly.
For the insulin competition this is a sector that we've dedicated a lot more focus to over the last couple of years in particular I'd say with the formation of our diabetes business in early 2010.
And we intend to maintain that focus on that business.
And we have said before we are seeing -- it is more competitive I think Nolos [ph] is now seeing a more competitive Lilly.
And as we would expect they're going to react.
And I would say though while the insulin business is one that is extremely important it's going to be a very large part of the overall diabetes treatment market one that we intend to go ahead and be very competitive in.
Our goal of regaining leadership over time in diabetes is not predicated solely on insulin.
It really does encompass the GLP space as well as orals.
So our focus on building that broad-based portfolio and leveraging that is intact and we'll continue to execute that very diligently.
Trajenta is really very early days.
You may have been also referring to the decision made in Germany where there were some very difficult comparables being applied to what the government was espousing it would like to reimburse the product at that did not make it appropriate for Boehringer Ingelheim or Lilly to move forward at this time.
We definitely do anticipate we'll be able to reach some agreement with the government that provides this product to patients and also recognizes innovation the benefits that it brings and the appropriate  compensates Boehringer Ingelheim and Lilly.
So we remain very optimistic about this class and about this product.
Again very early days in Europe on this particular front.
Next question is from the line of Catherine Arnold Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you guys about the insulin diabetes market.
And first of all more broadly now that you have this broader portfolio some assets homegrown some assets are obviously from other innovators.
Are you in a position that you can actually use that portfolio for contracting purposes either to government particularly outside the United States or from the standpoint of private payers? If you could just comment on what you're able to do as you approach the customer on payment.
And then I wanted to ask you on your insulin glargine aspirations have you considered doing a combination with BYETTA and would you need a separate contract with Amylin to move forward on that idea? Okay.
Catherine I'll go ahead and take a shot at the first two and if anyone wants to chime in feel free to.
So I don't necessarily believe that we're able to go ahead and leverage this in terms of the bundling if you will or the -- using different products to go ahead and gain leverage with payers that way.
I think that one of the main things that we have been focused on is the ability to approach the physician and talk about what their patients' needs are and those patients do have different needs over the course of their disease.
So this clearly positions us to offer products that go from earlier stages with the oral treatments into the injectable phases with GLP initially and then obviously you've got people who eventually will progress to and will need insulin therapy and obviously we have very strong offerings which we hope to expand in the future with the 2 basals that we're developing.
In terms of the combo to my knowledge there have not been any active discussions.
I'm not familiar Catherine enough with the contract.
I would think if you introduced another molecule into that collaboration we would need to probably have some discussions to figure out how that would work as the current collaboration really is focused on the exenatide molecule whether that's BYETTA Bydureon or subsequent formulation.
Next question Tim Anderson Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> You talked about having already pulled much of the sales and marketing spend from Zyprexa.
On the variable spending unrelated to the sales force can you give us some idea of when you started to make these cuts in earnest? Can you quantify how much these spend savings annualize to compared to when you fully resourced the brand? And then looking forward to maybe the end of 2013 when Cymbalta looks like it's going to go away that seems like it's going to have an impact on Lilly that's about the same as what Zyprexa's likely to have in the current year.
Can you just confirm that the Cymbalta impact will be about the same as Zyprexa's a few years from now?:p id="E05" name="Philip Johnson" type="E" /&gt; How about Dave comment on the Zyprexa dual marketing spend.
And if you don't mind maybe Dave talking about how you're thinking of -- not necessarily the comment on the sales decline but just the management of sales operations as we go off Cymbalta and we'll come to Derica for the financial piece.
Great.
So with Zyprexa this is a brand that for many years has had a very entrenched positioning in the minds of physicians.
And we've been able to begin taking down expenses as early as 2007 in the U.S.
on the variable side of the equation.
In the last calendar year we can just say that they were a fraction of that peak level already in 2010 in 2011 or even lower per Derica's earlier comment.
Cymbalta will see a very different picture in the U.S.
This is a brand in a very competitive highly genericized market with less clinical differentiation in the minds of physicians.
We do plan on having a robust sales and marketing effort much closer to the loss of exclusivity and therefore as you think about modeling after LOE there will be a more significant expense impact post LOE with Cymbalta.
Tim when you think about the financial impact of -- so how do the numbers play out.
Some of that is still also going to be predicated on how our pipeline emerges.
So remember in our late stage pipeline we have 3 new key neuroscience assets solanezumab for Alzheimer's disease mGlu2/3 or -- still pronounce the new name I won't try it but for schizophrenia as well as NERI stil for depression.
So as those play out we may see a re-purposing of some of those Cymbalta assets and resources to these new brands as we anticipate gearing up for their launches assuming that we're successful in bringing those through the regulatory process.
So this is how we're trying to manage our way through this period and seize the opportunities as they emerge.
Next question is David Risinger Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have 3 questions for Derica and then one for Enrique if he's on the online.
So with respect to animal health Derica can you comment on what the organic growth was in the quarter? And then second I was just hoping that you could rephrase or maybe add a little bit more color on your comment about Zyprexa product returns and what investors should expect in terms of fourth quarter U.S.
Zyprexa sales.
And then third with respect to SG&amp;A obviously spending continues to rise as you build businesses and that's clearly working to drive the top line.
But maybe you can just comment on the outlook for SG&amp;A spending growth in coming years should we expect SG&amp;A to continue to rise post Zyprexa going generic? And then if Enrique's on the line or maybe somebody else can comment I'm just wondering if you can provide any more color on the diabetes formulary pressure going into 2012 and your ability to offset the loss of CVS Caremark as a partner.
Okay.
Let me try the first 3.
In regards to the animal health organic growth it was about 18% in the quarter.
As we think about Q4 and the U.S.
Zyprexa sales as you know we do not provide product-level projections or forecast.
But what you can anticipate when we think about just return we probably took about 1/3 of the impact -- anticipating impact in the third quarter.
And we would anticipate about another 60% impact of returns in the fourth quarter clearly as you have -- we go through the brunt of the erosion -- the initial phase of the U.S.
erosion curve.
In regards to SG&amp;A expenses if you look at the third quarter it was really driven by 3 elements if you look at our total OpEx growth.
FX was about 3 percentage points.
The remaining 2 items was the pharma fixed fee okay? And the third was the expenses both in SG&amp;A as well as R&amp;D behind our BI collaboration.
If you exclude those 3 items our expense growth in the quarter was essentially flat so 0.
In fact it was slightly negative in real terms.
So when you think projecting forward we're not at a stage of putting out guidance beyond this period from a line item standpoint.
But what you can expect is we're going to be managing our SG&amp;A very tightly okay? And just a little short commentary on that 7% non-FX OpEx growth.
Derica mentioned these 2 factors the BI the Boehringer Ingelheim strategic diabetes alliance as well as the pharmacy.
You've got approximately 5% of total OpEx growth being driven by the Boehringer Ingelheim collaboration and about 1.5% or so is driven by the pharma fee.
And then your last question Dave on the diabetes formularies access here in the U.S.
each and every year there are some contracts that are up not all of them.
And each and every year we have seen a dynamic where we've maintained probably the majority -- vast majority of those we have had.
We've gained some additional ones and then we've lost a few.
That dynamic we expect to continue.
In terms of talking about specific contracts often in agreement with the actual customers we don't disclose the specific contracts that have been won or lost until they actually take effect.
I can't provide specific commentary on ones that we may anticipate could come off in '12 or that we may be gaining in '12.
We'll have that information probably for you in the January call with the Q4 results.
Next question Tony Butler Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Two brief questions.
One is Derica the volume in Japan has been quite spectacular.
Question is with price cuts assumed to come in the spring of next year what do you currently anticipate those price cuts to be that is how are you modeling it? And then second back to the Zyprexa returns can you tell us what you're actually accruing for -- the amount that you're accruing for those returns? Okay.
Tony in regards to Japan we continue once again to be very pleased with our performance there and the launches of Cymbalta and Forteo continue to go very well.
We're not in a position of providing our pricing projections for Japan for 2012.
Clearly on our call in January we'll be in a position to provide overall guidance for our outlook for `12 which would include Japan and the potential pricing.
So if we can we can put that off until then.
John? Tony this is John.
One comment I would make is although this is still being implemented in Japan on a trial basis in the last year or 2 pricing has been liberalized there to better recognize true innovation.
Now how's that going to continue to play out and how will other products that don't fall in that category be affected remains to be seen.
But actually in contrast to some other parts of the world we actually see in the last 2 years and going forward a more favorable pricing environment in Japan as the government there recognizes the need to call out innovation and to value innovation and also continues with its intent to ensure that more medicines that are approved in Europe and the U.S.
are approved and made available to Japanese patients in a contemporaneous way.
Tony to your last question the returns was a little bit less than $50 million charge in the third quarter.
Next question John Boris Citi.
Research Division</strong> First question is for Dave Ricks.
Dave can you maybe help frame or characterize the opportunity for Cialis in BPH? What percent of the business have you already shifted to the once-daily size of the market opportunity and reimbursement going forward? Second question for Derica.
You'd mentioned on the sequential growth for the emerging markets that it was largely attributed to Zyprexa.
Can you maybe give some color of the 500 basis points sequential decline? What percent of Zyprexa sales accounted for that in rest of world.
And then third question just for John very quickly.
In the environment in Washington what do you find John that the industry is winning on going forward? And what do you think some of the challenges are in Washington that the industry continues to face? Dave? In Cialis we're excited about the recent approval of Cialis for use in men who suffer from BPH as well as men who suffer from both ED and BPH.
We're now detailing to physicians and are looking forward to this launch.
To your question about the once-daily formulation which is specific to this indication you need to take the medicine every day prior to the DPH launch.
About 1 in 4 Cialis prescriptions in the U.S.
were for the once-a-day form.
We would anticipate with BPH uptake that to continue to grow and we see the BPH opportunity as a nice growth driver over the main life of Cialis in the U.S.
John in regards to emerging market sequential growth I don't have the specific data with me at this stage at this meeting.
But we can follow up with you on that if that's okay.
John? John I think the Washington environment remains very fluid.
I think when you couple the ongoing healthcare reform with the debts of reduction focus in terms of wins patent reform is a huge win.
It should in the medium- to long-term restore a great deal of confidence for investors that our patents can be -- can remain valid can be enforced and can be the basis for investor confidence in addition to clearing this huge backlog.
I think there is still strong support for maintaining 12.5 years of data protection for biologics which is part of the Affordable Care Act and we -- it's the law and we want to keep it that way.
And I think there's a general recognition appreciation to the fact that this industry employs directly and indirectly between 3 and 4 million people in this country.
And is the only way we're going to attack diseases like Alzheimer's and cancer which not only cause immense suffering but help drive up a lot of the healthcare cost today and in the future.
I think the area of concern for us right now is Part D.
We're fighting and we're quite adamant in our opposition to imposing government price controls in Part D.
This is a program that's working.
Premiums for seniors have remained low.
The overall cost of the program is stunningly lower than any one forecast 5 or 6 years ago.
And most seniors in Part D today have access to medicines.
In terms of deficit reduction Part D is making a difference there too.
A recent study published in Jamma [ph] show that for every person enrolled in Part D they have $1 200 a year less costs in other parts of the medical delivery system.
That's more than $10 billion a year in savings that I think we have to attribute to that program as it's currently structured.
So we're going to continue to make sure that that message gets heard and understood as we go forward.
We'll continue as well to express concerns we have about IPAB the Independent Payment Advisory Board as well as the way the 340 B program is being expanded we believe inappropriately.
Gregg Gilbert Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> First I was hoping you could attempt to quantify your dual eligible's exposure.
And maybe John you can handicap that specific item what will happen there? Secondly for Jan as we head into AHA can you frame your latest thinking on how your CTP product stacks up against others in the category based on info that's been made public over time? And third perhaps for Derica or Dave on Axiron was there any abnormally high discounting or couponing in the quarter that will abate over time? This is Phil.
I'll actually take your first question.
So in terms of the exposure on the dual-eligible low-income subsidy today we've not provided a specific quantification.
I guess one thing I would point you to to consider as you're trying to bracket how large this could be for the original healthcare reform that was to have been a $80 billion cost to the industry over a 10-year period we'd actually estimate it's probably closer to $115 billion cost over that 10-year period of the industry.
And as we talked about earlier we've estimated that this year you're probably talking about a $600 million to $700 million cost to Lilly in 2011 from healthcare reform.
Numbers I've seen from the CBO I guess who scored Medicare dual eligible low-income subsidy going to Medicaid pricing I believe they scored this at around $105 billion $110 billion over a 10-year period.
So as far as order of magnitude without getting into specific numbers I'll have you consider that.
Jan? Right.
Well the main thing I can say is that listen to the presentation at the American Heart Association.
And secondly what I stated in June was that in the interim analysis of the current study where we now have the final data the Data Monitoring Committee said accelerate progression of this agent.
Dave for Axiron? Axiron in the U.S.
as you know we launched the drug in Q2 in June in primary care against the entrenched competitor.
Like any launch in the U.S.
your main mission in early days is to drive trial and a good use experience for patients.
We believe we're doing that very successfully today in the U.S.
about 1 in 4 of new starts in the testosterone class are going on to Axiron just 6 months into the launch.
Obviously co-pay cards vouchers samples our key partners ensuring that positive early use experience.
But through time those dissipate as you get more refills.
So we're tracking right according to our plans and pleased with the early uptick.
And that question is from Barbara Ryan Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Question is really on China where obviously you've been very successful in showing very strong sales growth although we read about various government initiated programs the reduced price et cetera.
And I wonder if you could share with us what you're seeing there what your outlook is and maybe some split between what is actually part of the reimbursement list and what percentage of your business is private pay? Okay John? Okay.
Barbara I think that -- we think for us to be successful in China in the long run formulary status at the national level the provincial level and the hospital level is going to be key to that.
So we work very hard to ensure that our medicines are included in those formularies all the way down to the local level.
I think that there are going to be today and going forward situations where we have price decrease in China.
I think in some cases there's a focus on classes that we don't participate in and in some cases they're likely to affect us.
I think as we look at our long-term model in China we tried to account for that obviously not only as the delivery of healthcare changing China but I think the way in which healthcare is managed by the government will continue to evolve.
And under any circumstance our enthusiasm for the opportunity we have there to reach more patients with our products and to grow our business profitably has not diminished.
Thank you very much.
I'll go ahead as we approach the top of the hour and turn it over to Derica to close the meeting.
Sure thanks.
Barbara just to close out one thing I would say to add to John's comment is if you think about the therapeutic areas in which we compete where we have a strong competitive position: diabetes oncology and neuroscience those are also 3 of the fast-growing therapeutic areas in the China market.
So today this is a lot of what's driving the strong volume growth that you're seeing in that business in spite of the pricing environment that's resonant there.
Thanks for everyone spending your time with us here this morning.
And I guess in closing I'd like to just maybe reiterate a few points.
One Q3 was another strong quarter of our underlying revenue growth and financial performance for Lilly.
And it was punctuated by double-digit growth from our countercyclical growth engines from 6 of our key brands.
As we head into the teeth of our patent expiration period we have positioned the company to fund the R&amp;D necessary to fuel our future growth recapitalize our physical assets and maintain our dividend.
Finally we continue to make progress in advancing our pipeline which is the foundation of our future growth.
We look forward to keeping you informed as we execute our strategy.
And we thank you for your interest in Eli Lilly &amp; Co.
Our team will be available to answer any additional questions you may have following this call.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
ladies and gentlemen this conference will also be available for replay and that's starting today at 11 a.m.
Eastern Time and will run through October 27 midnight.
You may dial the AT&amp;T Executive Playback Service by dialing 1(800) 475-6701 with the access code 218233.
International callers may dial area code (320)365-3844 access code 218233.
And that does conclude your conference.
We do thank you for joining while using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Q4 earnings call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ronika Pletcher Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the time to join us for Eli Lilly &amp; Co.'s Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Ronika Pletcher Director of Investor Relations.
Joining me are our Chairman and CEO John Lechleiter; our Chief Financial Officer Derica Rice; our President of Lilly Research Laboratories Dr.
Jan Lundberg; our President of Elanco Animal Health Jeff Simmons; and Ilissa Rassner and Phil Johnson from Investor Relations.
During this conference call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on Slide 3 and those outlined in our latest form 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
Since our last earnings call we've had a number of significant events.
Here are some of the highlights.
In regulatory news the European Commission approved the use of Alimta as continuation maintenance therapy in patients with advanced nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer after initial treatment with Alimta plus cisplatin.
In the U.S.
we submitted an sNDA to the FDA for the same indication.
The FDA approved the use of ERBITUX in combination with chemotherapy as a first-line treatment for recurrent locoregional or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
The FDA approved Jentadueto the linagliptin plus metformin fixed-dose combination for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes.
The FDA also approved Amylin's BYDUREON as adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes.
We submitted Amyvid for regulatory review in Europe for the detection of beta-amyloid plaque in the brains of living patients and we announced the withdrawal of Xigris in all markets following the results of the PROWESS-SHOCK study.
On the business development front we agreed with Amylin to terminate the exenatide alliance.
Amylin assumed full responsibility for exenatide in the U.S.
at the end of November while responsibility for OUS markets will transition to them by no later than the end of 2013.
And we signed an agreement to acquire ChemGen Corp.
a privately held company specializing in development and commercialization of innovative feed enzyme products that improve the efficiency of poultry egg and meat production.
This marks our fifth Animal Health acquisition in the past 5 years.
And we entered into a 6-month agreement with Prasco Laboratories to supply an authorized version of olanzapine upon exploration of the U.S.
patent for Zyprexa on October 23 2011.
In clinical news let me begin with an update on solanezumab.
The Data Monitoring Committee for the Phase III trial of solanezumab met earlier this month conducting both safety and futility analyses.
The DMC indicated that futility was not met and recommended that both pivotal trials continue without modification.
Please keep in mind that the lack of futility in an interim analysis does not mean the drug is efficacious.
In these studies not meeting futility simply means that only 1 of the 4 primary endpoints across the 2 pivotal studies needed to have more than a 30% chance of being positive upon study completion.
In addition while the DMC did not recommend any modifications to the 2 pivotal studies the DMC did recommend that 2 additional ECG measurements be added to the open-label extension study to provide a level cardiac monitoring that is more consistent with the blinded pivotal trials.
As we've done in the past we encourage analysts and investors not to read too much into the outcome of the DMC's review.
While we are pleased with the outcome of the DMC's futility analysis efficacy and safety can only be assessed at the end of the studies.
In other clinical news we initiated Phase III trials to study our novel basal insulin analogue for type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
We also initiated Phase III trials to study our anti-IL-17 monoclonal antibody in psoriasis and we presented encouraging Phase II data at the annual American Heart Association meeting for evacetrapib in patients with hypercholesterolemia or low HDL-C.
As we've done on previous calls we'll focus our comments on the non-GAAP results which we believe provide insight into the underlying trends of our business.
This view excludes certain items such as restructuring charges asset impairments and other special charges.
Turning to the income statement on Slide 7 you can see that revenue declined by 2% in Q4 to just over $6 billion.
You'll also see that gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased 2 percentage points from 80.1% to 78.1%.
The decreases in both revenue and gross margin percent was due to lower sales of Zyprexa and to a lesser extent Gemzar following their patent expiration.
This quarter's total operating expense defined as a sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A grew 2%.
Within operating expenses marketing selling and administrative expenses grew 7% while R&amp;D expenses declined 6%.
The growth in marketing selling and administrative expenses was driven primarily by our diabetes collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim and to a lesser extent by the mandatory pharmaceutical manufacturer fee associated with U.S.
healthcare reform.
The reduction in R&amp;D expense was due to charges in the base period Q4 2010.
In Q4 2011 we did experience higher R&amp;D expenses from our diabetes collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim and other late-stage clinical trials.
However these increases were less than the fourth quarter of 2010 charges related to business development activities and the termination of certain clinical trials.
Other income and deductions improved due primarily to lower foreign exchange rate losses.
Our tax rate in Q4 2011 was 19.9% an increase of nearly 3 percentage points from Q4 2010.
Recall that our tax rate in Q4 2010 was particularly low as we recognize the 4-year benefit of the extension of the R&amp;D tax credit.
Net income and earnings per share each decreased 22%.
For the full year revenue increased 5% despite the negative impact of the Gemzar patent expiration and the initial impact of the Zyprexa patent expiration.
Net income and EPS declined mid single digits driven by a decline of 2 percentage points in the gross margin percent which is largely due to the charges and -- changes in foreign exchange rate.
In addition operating expenses increased 8% for the year primarily driven by expenses associated with our Boehringer Ingelheim alliance and the pharma fee.
For the quarter and for the year total operating expenses grew faster than revenue.
This is a result of known headwinds that we've talked about for some time.
Revenue growth was negatively affected by the Gemzar and Zyprexa patent expirations outside of Japan as well as by U.S.
healthcare reform while our strategic diabetes collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim in the U.S.
and U.S.
healthcare reform added significantly to our operating expenses.
In the face of these headwinds we continue to drive strong revenue growth and prudently manage expenses in the rest of our business.
To illustrate this point in the fourth quarter excluding these items the rest of our business delivered revenue growth of 13% while operating expenses decreased 3%.
Excluding these items for the full year the rest of our business delivered 14% revenue growth while operating expenses increased only 3%.
We will continue to focus on driving growth in those products and businesses not experienced in patent expirations and will rigorously prioritize investments to achieve our midterm financial targets and to position the company to return to growth post 2014.
Slide 8 shows our reported income statement while Slide 9 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS.
Additional details about our reported earnings are available in today's earnings press release.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ilissa.
Thanks Ronika.
As you can see on Slide 10 the revenue decline of 2% for the quarter was driven by a negative impact of 11% from price partially offset by a favorable impact of 8% from volume.
Foreign exchange had a negligible impact on worldwide revenue.
You'll see that we experienced a material U.S.
price decline and a U.S.
volume increase.
Both U.S.
price and volumes reflect the Zyprexa patent expiration and our post-patent strategies.
Despite a decline in sales volume for branded Zyprexa U.S.
volume increased in the fourth quarter of 2011 as a result of the timing of sales of authorized olanzapine to Prasco.
This volume increase was more than offset by significant price reductions attributable both to authorized olanzapine and branded Zyprexa.
Moving to the next row of numbers you'll see that both price and volume declined in Europe.
Again this was due to the Zyprexa patent expiration.
We continue to see strong volume growth from our 3 countercyclical growth areas: Japan Emerging Markets and Animal Health.
You can see that in Q4 volume growth in Japan was 19%.
Emerging Markets which is embedded in the ROW line experienced 16% volume growth.
Finally Animal Health delivered 10% volume growth.
For the full year total revenue growth of 5% was driven by growth of 6% from volume and 2% from FX partially offset by a 3% decline in price.
Volume growth was notable in Japan at 21% in Emerging Markets at 12% and in Animal Health at 18%.
Notably Trifexis our oral treatment for dogs to prevent and treat flea infestations prevent heartworm disease and treat and control adult hookworm roundworm and whipworm infections achieved Animal Health blockbuster status in its first year on the market exceeding $100 million in sales.
Slide 11 shows the year-on-year growth of select line items of our non-GAAP income statement with and without the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates.
For the quarter you'll see that FX had a negligible effect on our results.
For the year while FX did not have a significant effect on our bottom line it did increase the U.S.
dollar value of our foreign revenue and underlying operating income but this was more than offset by an FX-related increase in cost of sales.
For your information on Slide 12 we've provided the year-on-year growth of select line items of our reported income statement with and without the effect of foreign exchange rates.
Next I'll briefly cover some highlights from our quarterly pipeline update before turning the call over to Derica.
Slide 13 shows our pipeline as of January 17 and highlights changes since our last earnings call on October 20.
This quarter's progress shown by green arrows demonstrates our focus on addressing our patent expirations through innovation.
You'll see that we began Phase III testing of both our anti-IL-17 monoclonal antibody for psoriasis as well as our novel basal insulin analogue.
One oncology molecule progressed into Phase II testing and 3 new molecules began Phase I testing.
In addition we terminated development of 3 molecules and have decided not to resubmit Arxxant to the FDA after reviewing the results of the recently completed Isis study.
Our Phase III pipeline now includes 12 potential new medicines a majority of which are biotech products spanning oncology diabetes neuroscience and autoimmune diseases.
Now I'll turn the call over to Derica to cover some of the key events for 2012 our financial guidance and some closing comments before we open the call for Q&amp;A.
Derica? Thanks Ilissa.
In 2012 we anticipate a number of potential approvals.
We'll continue to advance our pipeline and we'll generate and share clinical data that will help investors better gauge our growth potential post 2014.
We anticipate a number of regulatory actions including FDA decisions on: Alimta as continuation maintenance therapy for patients with nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer; ERBITUX both in first-line non-small cell lung cancer as well as in first-line metastatic colorectal cancer; and Amyvid for the detection of beta-amyloid plaque.
Now as we mentioned at AHA in November we shared encouraging Phase II results for our CETP inhibitor.
We anticipate beginning Phase III trials for evacetrapib before the end of this year.
We also expect to complete a number of important Phase III trials in 2012 including: the EXPEDITION studies for solanezumab for Alzheimer's disease; the TRILOGY study with Effient and ACS-medically-managed patients; and the PARAMOUNT and POINTBREAK studies with Alimta in nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer.
In addition we'll complete a number of Phase III trials for dulaglutide and in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim for empagliflozin.
We'll also complete the Phase IIb trial of the JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor being studied for use in rheumatoid arthritis in partnership with Incyte.
Pending the outcome of this trial our plan is to disclose both 3-month and 6-month data at medical meetings later this year.
A number of these trial completions will likely generate public data disclosures during 2012 as indicated in red text on Slide 14.
We also expect to disclose additional Phase II data for our anti-IL-17 monoclonal antibody being studied in psoriasis and for our novel basal insulin analogue being studied for both type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
Slide 15 shows a summary of the 2012 financial guidance that we discussed in detail on our investor call on January 5.
We've had no material items occur since that call.
And today we are reconfirming all line items of our previously issued guidance.
If you're looking for additional color commentary on our 2012 guidance please refer to today's press release as well as the Investors section of lilly.com where you'll find the slides and audio from our January 5 call.
I would note that some major currencies including the euro and the British pound have depreciated versus the U.S.
dollar compared to the rates assumed in our guidance.
Should these FX rates stay at current levels we could see modest downward pressure on foreign revenues and income offset by a favorable impact on cost of goods sold.
Finally we worked closely with our external auditors on the proper accounting treatment for the termination of our alliance with Amylin.
Given the complexity of unwinding this alliance we've decided to proactively consult with the SEC on our accounting treatment.
While it would not have any effect on the underlying cash flows or economics of the termination it is possible that this consultation could lead to material changes to our accounting treatment and as a result to our 2011 reported results as well as to our 2012 guidance.
We're working with the SEC to conclude this review process prior to filing our Form 10-K.
Slide 16 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS for 2011 and the associated growth rates from these numbers to our 2012 guidance.
Now let me summarize.
We've accomplished a great deal in 2011 while rapidly adapting to significant external and internal developments.
Here are some of the highlights.
For the full year we again delivered strong financial performance.
We generated 5% revenue growth despite the continued erosion from Gemzar's loss of exclusivity and the initial impact from the loss of exclusivity for Zyprexa in the U.S.
and Europe.
Operating expenses grew slightly faster than revenue as we absorbed both the mandatory pharmaceutical manufacturers' fee associated with healthcare reform and incurred additional operating expenses related to our diabetes partnership with Boehringer Ingelheim.
Our strong operating performance combined with prudent management of working capital generated over $7 billion of operating cash flow easily covering capital expenditures of about $700 million and our dividend of roughly $2.2 billion.
We take our commitment to our shareholders seriously and I'm pleased to report that we exceeded our expense and headcount reduction commitments.
Since mid-2009 we removed over $1 billion from our projected 2011 expense base and we've eliminated approximately 5 600 headcount before strategic additions.
Over the past year our scientists remained focused on advancing our pipeline and delivered strong results.
Thanks to their efforts Lilly advanced 10 new molecules into Phase I clinical testing moved 8 molecules into Phase II testing and advanced 4 molecules into Phase III testing including potential novel medicines for psoriasis and schizophrenia and 2 potential basal insulin analogues for diabetes.
We also strengthened our diabetes franchise entering a strategic collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim.
This collaboration added a Phase III compound to our portfolio empagliflozin an oral SGLT2 inhibitor as well as linagliptin or Tradjenta which received approval and was launched in several major markets around the world.
Our financial performance our focus on speeding innovation to patients and our targeted use of business development makes us confident that we'll successfully navigate our patent expirations and emerge with even greater strength and capacity to drive future growth.
We remain on track to meet or exceed our midterm financial projections: minimum annual revenue of at least $20 billion; net income of at least $3 billion; and operating cash flow of at least $4 billion.
We ended 2011 with 12 molecules in Phase III development surpassing our goal of 10 and another 22 in Phase II development.
This is the most robust mid- to late-stage pipeline in our history.
It includes a balance of small molecules and biologics and exciting candidates in each of our therapeutic areas.
We believe this pipeline will drive strong growth post YZ.
This year we'll generate and disseminate important data that will help investors and analysts better gauge our long-term growth potential.
We're confident in our strategy and focused like never before on its effective execution.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Now we'll take your questions.
Operator first caller please? [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Tim Anderson with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I have a few questions on solanezumab.
The first is can you confirm that if the 2 Phase III trials are positive that you would file a product for approval in the current year? The second comment is on the ECGs that you've added.
This seems to suggest that maybe somewhere along the way there may have been a CV signal of some sort.
Is that the case? Or is this just routine monitoring? And then lastly on the futility analysis that was done.
Is it a hard and fast rule that if you fall below the threshold of futility that the trials would have to be stopped? Or is there flexibility on this sort of thing that might allow the trial to go on even if you were below that threshold? Great Tim.
I think we'll have Jan take a crack at those.
Jan? Right.
In relation to filings we first need to see the data before we can really commit to exact data in that area.
And we will communicate data second half this year.
In relation to the ECG comment first of all the Data Monitoring Committee recommended that the 2 EXPEDITION trials continue as planned and the ECG comment was related to the extension 2-year trial.
Currently there are 2 ECG recordings in the extension trial at 12 and 24 months and the Data Monitoring Committee wanted us to add the 1 and 3 months monitoring as well.
This is consistent with the level of monitoring we actually have in the blinded clinical trials.
If we look at this population of Alzheimer patients the average age is around 75 years in the studies.
And in previous trials that we've had for instance with semagacestat placebo responses for cardiovascular events were 6.5%.
And so far in the EXPEDITION studies we have 6.4% of patients that have reported a cardiac adverse event although we do not know currently if these subjects are receiving active treatment with solanezumab or placebo.
But remember again the Data Monitoring Committee recommended we continue the studies as planned.
The futility analysis was done in the way that was pre-agreed.
And if we wouldn't have met the agreement we would not have continued.
So futility was not met according to the defined rules.
Tim one other thing.
We have been regularly monitoring cardiac adverse events in the pivotal studies.
And we'll continue to do so obviously with enhanced testing in the extension study as well.
Our next question will come from the line of Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on solanezumab.
What -- and I may -- Ronika you may have mentioned this and I may have missed it.
But what probability hurdle was used in assessing the futility of solanezumab? In other words can you give us a sense for what probability of success the futility analysis showed? And also Derica in your 2014 guidance just curious to know what probability of success you have built in for solanezumab in your revenue guidance by 2014? So we'll have Jan take the first and Derica the second.
Futility was defined that all 4 of the primary endpoints 2 in each of the 2 pivotal studies having a 30% or lower probability of being positive at the study completion.
So this I think repeats what Ronika said.
Derica? And Jami on your question in regards to sola's impact on 2014 it's fairly immaterial given the probability that we were assuming.
We have not put that absolute number out there.
But what I can say is that if solanezumab is not successful it will not cause us to change our 2014 outlook.
I guess Jami one of the way to think about the futility is as you're probably aware we're measuring ADAS-COG and ADCS-ADL scales as the 2 co-primary endpoints in each of the 2 pivotal studies.
If all 4 of those endpoints had a 30% or lower probability of being positive upon completion of the studies then the futility criteria would in fact have been met.
And as we've said those criteria were not met.
We'll go to the line of Marc Goodman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess a couple of questions.
One is can you comment on any major inventory changes in the quarter? Second can you talk about the SGLT2 market your product how you think about your trials just given what happened with dapa? And then third on Effient can you just tell us if the TRILOGY trial does work how does that change your spending? Derica you want to handle the major inventory change question? Ilissa the SGLT2 and then either Derica or I will handle the TRILOGY investment question for you.
Sure.
Mark in regards to inventory changes in the quarter we did see some inventory build excuse me in the wholesalers and a little bit in retail in the fourth quarter in December.
It's a little bit higher than what we have typically seen but we've also seen that basically being burned off here in the first few weeks of the month of January.
So we didn't see anything significantly out of whack but was higher levels than we've seen historically.
Ilissa? Regarding our SGLT2 molecule we are aware of the FDA concerns on dapagliflozin although we do not know if those concerns are related specifically to the molecule or to the class.
We do believe that the SGLT2 inhibitor class is an important alternative treatment option for adult patients with type 2 diabetes.
We are continuing our Phase III trials and we will evaluate efficacy and safety at that time when they complete.
And then on TRILOGY obviously this is a trial that will give us a very interesting and useful information about using the dose 2.5 milligrams for maintenance as opposed to a higher maintenance dose in elderly and low body weight patients that were those patients in the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial had a much higher incidence of bleeding.
So looking very much forward to getting this data later this year having a chance to present it at a medical meeting in the second half of the year hopefully as well.
In terms of the investment required I would not want to indicate to you that it does require a significant additional investment.
We have a footprint already for this product with the ACS-PCI indication.
We have a sales force also selling other cardiovascular drugs.
And again the data could be very helpful to substantiate the clinical profile of Effient but would not necessarily lead to any significant ramp-up in marketing or selling expenditures behind the drug.
Our next question comes from Greg Gilbert with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Jan what will the field learn in 2012 about the CETP mechanism that will be important for your program if anything? And is a large outcome study in Phase III already factored into your midterm outlook Derica for that product? And if John is on the line I was curious if you're seeing any increased likelihood of tax or repatriation reform? Great.
Jan you'll start? Yes.
I guess my comment is that it remains to be seen what we will be learned.
I think for -- to really learn the essence of the CETP mechanism we need to have the outcome data for the top molecules that really affect HDL over 100% and in addition lower LDL.
And so we need to do the final outcome studies to make the definitive conclusions.
Greg in regards to your budgetary question around CETP CETP is just one of many molecules that we have within our clinical portfolio.
And so as I highlighted on other calls the group is very adept here in our R&amp;D organization doing good portfolio management and managing within the budgetary guidelines that we have established.
And we make trade-off all the time.
And so as we go forward depending upon what the decision is around CETP that will be looked at in conjunction with other molecules that we have in development and we'll make the necessary decisions to be able to make the right funding.
As it relates to tax repatriation.
For us the thing that we've been most focused on Greg is not necessarily repatriation because that's still a onetime deal.
The more systemic or sustainable element that we think is most important is the U.S.
moving to a territorial system.
And this is where we will essentially be on a level playing field with our competitors who are not domiciled in the U.S.
and I think that's the most important element of tax reform as I look forward.
That comes from the line of David Risinger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So I apologize I think you had mentioned the 4 primary endpoints for solanezumab.
If you could just run through those again please that would be helpful.
My second question and I have 3 on solanezumab is with respect to the timing completion clinicaltrials.gov indicate that the 2 Phase III trials will be concluding in the second quarter.
Is that still correct? And would that imply an early third quarter disclosure? And then finally with respect to solanezumab how many endpoints have to be positive to declare the trial a success? For example would you be able to file if you only hit 1 of the 4 primary endpoints? Great Dave.
Jan do you want to take maybe the first and third question? I'll be happy to fill in on the ct.gov portion.
Okay.
There are 4 primary endpoints as was stated too in each of the 2 EXPEDITION trials.
The first one is the ADAS-COG which measures cognitive function with an emphasis on memory.
The second one is the ADCS-ADL which measures the ability to independently perform daily activities such as eating bathing or using the telephone.
So it's a cognitive subscore and an activity of daily living inventory.
And there are one of each done in each study making it 4 all together.
And in terms of the -- how many of the endpoints are going to be positive for filing.
Do you want to comment on that Jan? The studies have been powered so that we need to hit statistical significance on all 4 primary endpoints across the 2 studies.
On the other hand there are secondary endpoints and there could be subgroup analysis being done and it will end up in a discussion with the FDA.
Remembering also that this is a disease area with a very high unmet medical need and there are no disease modifying treatments available.
And of course it's about the benefit/risk judgment overall.
And then Dave on the clinicaltrials.gov information you're right it shows both trials completing as is stated on clinicaltrials.gov in April and June of 2012.
Just for clarity that would be the last patient visit that would generate the data necessary to go ahead and actually close that database.
In many trials that takes a number of weeks.
This may take a bit longer given the number of tests that are being done and different kinds of imaging that are being done.
So it will be a larger number of weeks post last patient visit before we actually close those databases clean and validate them and begin to have a readout of the data.
So I don't know that I'd indicate to you the early Q3 disclosure.
We typically have been trying to set the expectation.
We will present this data before the end of the year at a medical meeting and then we'll evaluate with our team with a PC council based on the data what is an appropriate disclosure strategy if any prior to a scientific disclosure at a medical meeting.
We'll go to the line of Steve Scala with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 3 questions.
First does Lilly know how many of the solanezumab endpoints achieved the 30% hurdle and you are simply not disclosing this? Or does Lilly not know? Secondly what is the nature of the cardiovascular events seen in the trials are they of rate or rhythm? And what is the hypothetical mechanism by how these disturbances would be delivered? And then third Lilly has said in the past that for financial modeling consideration solanezumab had a low probability of success.
Having crossed this interim hurdle does Lilly still feel that the product has a low probability of success? Jan would like to handle the first 2 and I'll take a crack at the last one.
Right.
The Data Monitoring Committee did not say how many of the primary endpoints exceeded the threshold for futility so we cannot comment on that.
In relation to the nature of the cardiovascular events we cannot be more specific at the current stage.
And I refer back to my previous comment that overall there was a similar occurrence of CV events in the EXPEDITION trials in the -- which are blinded compare them to the placebo events in the semagacestat trial.
And in terms of the financial modeling Steve you're correct saying in the past that continues to be the case.
Again this is a disease state where there are no disease modifying therapies things would delay the progression of Alzheimer's disease symptoms.
And amyloid-beta hypothesis while it's probably the leading hypothesis is still that.
We think this is one of the first molecules that will give that hypothesis a real test and we're optimistic about the potential for helping to improve care for Alzheimer's disease patients as well as their families.
But this remains a very high risk area of research.
We've also discussed the fact that it's particularly risky since we did not generate in Phase II the kind of efficacy data that you typically would have at that particular point in time.
So for that reason if this relatively high-risk relatively lower probability Phase III asset were not to work that would not have a significant impact on our future financial projection given that relatively low probability.
If however it were to work there could be a more meaningful upside to our financial projections.
Again I go back to Derica's comment as well just given the timing for completion of studies potential submission and approval this is not a molecule that would be impacting our 2014 guidance in either of the 2 cases of either working or not working in these Phase III studies.
That will be from the line of John Boris with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Solanezumab question just on manufacturing and sourcing strategy for solanezumab.
Are you currently sourcing your clinical trials from smaller clinical batches? Or have you done 3 large-scale production batches on the product? And has the FDA inspected this item where will you manufacture it from? And then second question for Derica.
Japan obviously a bright spot in the quarter.
I think some price cuts go into effect there greater than 6% in April.
Can you maybe walk us through what the potential implications of that are across your therapeutic categories that you participate in Japan? John I'll go ahead and handle your first question and pass it to Derica for the second.
So in terms of manufacturing and sourcing strategy we don't have a lot of details we can share at this point in time.
We can say that this is something we're producing internally to Lilly and we'd be expecting to not only for the clinical trial but for commercial production as well.
At this point I do not have an update for you in terms of FDA being in to inspect.
I would not anticipate that type of an inspection to occur until you have an active review ongoing.
Obviously since the trial is not yet completed we've not yet submitted.
We're not at that stage in the process with the agency.
Derica? John as you saw we had very strong performance in Japan both for the quarter and for the year.
And for the year we grew 31% there for the quarter 27%.
And the key brands driving that were brands such as Cymbalta Zyprexa Alimta and Forteo.
As we think about 2012 we are anticipating the biannual price decrease.
This year as you've heard on our January 5 earnings call we anticipate the impact of that price decrease being much larger than what we've seen historically to the tune of about approximately $200 million.
We won't know specifically until we actually see the price list that comes out.
But it's across brands like Alimta where we've had huge volume growth there and potentially Zyprexa.
That will be from the line of Tony Butler with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Back to solanezumab quickly.
I realized this is not prospectively defined.
But if in fact in post talk analysis APOE4 status actually indicates that say carriers or noncarriers whatever the case may be demonstrate significance but the overall trial were to fail the primary outcome.
Would that actually be a fileable outcome as well? And I'm sorry to be specific but I mean clearly this is experimental and there are obviously some post talk opportunities.
I'm just curious how you think about that.
I appreciate it.
Jan would you like to comment? It could be an option but this will be a discussion with the regulators again referring back to the unmet medical need and the benefit/risk of this molecule.
But we are doing this analysis and it could be one option.
We will go to the line of Seamus Fernandez with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> I've got a few questions here.
Just can you update us on the Emerging Market performance in the quarter? That's the first question for Derica.
Second on solanezumab the median on-treatment time for solanezumab at the interim look as well as at completion.
And then also maybe for Jan.
Jan if you can just give us your thoughts on the Obama administration's argument that the mandate could potentially be removed without striking down PPCA.
Can you just update us on what the industry's position is there? And then if it were to be removed but PPCA stayed in place what would that mean to the potential volume opportunity for the industry if any? Off the bat let me tell you we don't have the data on median time on treatment either at the interim or upon completion.
I don't know that we'll have that.
We will certainly check and follow up after the call.
Derica will handle the Emerging Markets question and John to you for the healthcare reform.
Seamus we continue to see strong underlying volume growth in the Emerging Markets.
Our total growth was 7% for the quarter in Emerging Markets 10% for the year.
If we look specifically at markets like China we grew there 43% in the quarter and 31% for the year.
And we're seeing us move or increase our competitive positioning in the area of diabetes as well as oncology.
And those were 2 key drivers of that growth.
And we'd anticipate seeing continued strong volume growth in 2012 as well.
But you will begin to see also the impact of some of the patent expiries in markets like Brazil and Mexico on products like Gemzar and Zyprexa that will dampen the overall revenue growth but not the volume growth.
John? Seamus obviously with healthcare reform with the Affordable Care Act there are a lot of things up in the air right now.
We've been implementing this obviously from the beginning.
It's had an impact on our income statement beginning several years ago.
And we're feeling a little bit more of that impact this year because it's the first year the fee has kicked in.
We're following all of this with great interest.
Obviously we're prepared for whatever eventuality.
Obviously if there's not -- if someone's following that move [ph] the mandate I think that calls into question how the system's going to avoid the selection bias and in essence operate in a way that's affordable.
But we'll continue to monitor that.
And we're prepared to deal with any eventuality.
Seamus just a quick follow-up as well on the Emerging Markets.
So as Derica had mentioned we have 7% growth in Q4 and 10% for the year.
If you look at that volume growth it's been quite strong.
As Derica mentioned it was 16% in Q4 and 12% for the full year.
And then just to place in context the $250 million potential hit from generics that would equate to about 10% of our overall Emerging Markets business.
So it would be a relatively substantial hit but again may mask some of the underlying volume growth in other products that aren't affected by patent expiration.
And that will come from the line of Jeff Holford with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wonder if you can just give us a brief update on your insulin business in the U.S.
in the fourth quarter.
Just if there are any changes in market share or just general changes on pricing activities that have happened between you and Novo Nordisk in the fourth quarter? Sure.
So for the insulin business we saw continued strong growth in Q4 both in Humalog and in Humulin.
In Humulin we saw not only continued strong growth with the Humulin ReliOn brand with Walmart.
But also as some of that annualized out a bit more of our price dropping to the bottom line.
Humalog we continue to see very strong growth in a number of market segments including some of the hospital and long-term care segments.
As we have indicated we do expect that given some of the decisions that were made CVS Caremark principally for example for commercial as well as Part D that we'll likely see some erosion in market share at the very beginning of the year.
But again we remain very encouraged by the progress we've made to date and the trajectory that we're on.
And we'll go to the line of Chris Schott with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones here.
First on solanezumab and sorry if I missed an answer to I think Steve's question earlier.
Is there any theoretical CV concerns with solanezumab or just the mechanism in general? Second question was on pipeline and how you guys were thinking about the A-beta antibodies relative to the base inhibitors earlier in development.
And then final question was on business development.
Comments on the growing cash balance I mean can you just talk a little bit about the priorities at this point and what range of transactions you'd consider specifically how large you'd go? And as we think about BD on the human pharma side of the business you've got very big data readouts of solanezumab and other assets ahead.
Does that -- how are you thinking about BD given that how that data might play out could significantly alter the direction the company is headed and the type of assets you might pursue? I think Jan the first 2 are probably for you.
And then Derica the business development one at the end.
Jan? Yes if we get back to the cardiovascular concerns potential for solanezumab as far as we understand there are no real theoretical risks identified with this particular mechanism although binding the amyloid is a peripheral thing.
So we need to be driven by the outcome data then from these patients.
If we look at the pipeline yes there are a number of antibodies addressing beta-amyloid even at the midportion of the molecule like solanezumab the N-terminal portion then like some other agents.
And earlier there are oral agents the base inhibitor which we have one.
And if we look at the positioning of these molecules the base inhibitor then prevents the formation of amyloid while then solanezumab actually removes or prevents aggregation of amyloid.
So there are partly different mechanismal actions.
It's also an opportunity for the next generation of amyloid agents to a more prospective use beta-amyloid imaging to actually identify amyloid-carrying patients that have mild cognitive impairment for instance.
And that could be the next step then to look into how you can really modify Alzheimer's disease progression.
Derica? Okay.
Chris our focus on business development and direction has not changed.
And going forward we expect it to be fairly consistent with what you've seen from us historically.
And our footprint has been -- we've done deals like Axiron which we can easily slot into our ED business and footprint -- commercial footprint.
We did the deal and the collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim where we're able to bring in 2 molecules that we could leverage our diabetes focus.
And at the same time outside of human pharma we've followed the same approach as it relates to our Elanco Animal Health business.
And most recently we acquired ChemGen which was an enzyme business a feed-added business that we were able to slot into our existing Animal Health footprint.
So those are the kinds of deals that we've been focused on historically and I would see us following that similar pattern going forward.
Yes I would say on Animal Health -- this is Jeff Simmons.
I would just build on that.
As mentioned 5 acquisitions in 5 years all of those to build on Derica's strategy were strategic in nature bringing us into the vaccine business the companion animal business expanding their European business with the Janssen last year.
Dairy with the Monsanto acquisition.
And this recent one to allow Elanco to continue a double-digit growth through YZ.
It will accelerate us in this great interesting space of enzymes.
We'll go to the line of Catherine Arnold with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to just touch quickly on one quick question on solanezumab.
The volumetric MRIs that you're doing are those likely to come out in tandem with the broader results of Phase III? Is there any chance those are before or after? And then on evacetrapib I was wondering if you could just give a little bit of color about how you're thinking about a Phase III trial.
There's obviously a big variance between the Roche program and the Merck program of number of patients in their Phase III trial? And are you thinking more in the 30 000 patient level or the 16 000 patient level? Are you thinking about a partnership or not? And then could you remind us whether or not you guys have an open label for your Phase II for evacetrapib? Jan do you want to try to handle the first 2 questions on the volumetric MRIs and on evacetrapib? Yes.
Volumetric MRIs is a readout that certainly we will try to include with all the other readouts that we have for the solanezumab trial.
For evacetrapib we are in regulatory discussions about our Phase III programs and we cannot share any comments today about this outcome which also includes then potential business development.
Catherine one thing we have said about the programs for evacetrapib while we're still in the planning phases we did go ahead in Phase II and look at this in combination with a number of statins that are commonly used whereas I believe some of the others have been looking at a combination with a single statin.
So clearly we'll also be evaluating that as we set our Phase III plans.
And I believe there is an open label extension to the Phase II but I think we'll need to go ahead and double check on that for sure with you.
And I'll turn it back over to you sir.
Okay great.
Before we go ahead and conclude the call I would like to take a moment to thank our colleague Ronika Pletcher for her contributions to our Investor Relations efforts over the last 3.5 years plus a little bit.
I know many of you have worked with her pretty closely and we appreciate her contributions.
I'll also want to thank you that have dialed in today for your interest in Eli Lilly &amp; Co We definitely look forward to keeping you appraised of the progress we make during the course of 2012.
And the IR team as always will be available post the call to answer any questions you may have.
Thank you very much and have a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen today's conference call will be available for replay after 11 a.m.
today until midnight February 7.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system by dialing (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 225549.
International participants dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Eli Lilly Q1 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to your host Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Phil Johnson.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the time to join us for Eli Lilly &amp; Co.'s First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Phil Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me are our Chairman and CEO John Lechleiter; our Chief Financial Officer Derica Rice; our President of Lilly Research Laboratories Dr.
Jan Lundberg; and Ilissa Rassner and Travis Coy for Investor Relations.
During this conference call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on Slide 3 and those outlined in our latest forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
We are very pleased with our performance in the first quarter of 2012.
In the face of significant reductions in revenue and earnings due to the Zyprexa patent expiration Lilly employees around the world have remained focused on execution.
They delivered results that solidly position us to meet our 2012 financial guidance and it placed us on track to meet or exceed our midterm financial minimum goals.
Let's begin with a quick review of events that have taken place since our previous earnings call.
From a commercial perspective we're pleased that Jentadueto the linagliptin plus metformin fixed-dose combination for treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes is now available in U.S.
pharmacies.
On the regulatory front Japan's Ministry of Health Labour and Welfare approved Zyprexa for treatment of depression in bipolar disorder and Cymbalta for treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain.
Amylin's Byetta received European Commission approval as an adjunctive therapy to basal insulin with or without metformin and/or pioglitazone for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in adults.
We received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA for Erbitux in first-line non-small cell lung cancer.
Lilly and Bristol-Myers Squibb do not plan to further pursue this FLEX submission but will continue to market Erbitux in the U.S.
for certain types of head and neck and colorectal cancer.
And lastly the FDA approved Amyvid for use in patients being evaluated for Alzheimer's disease and other causes of cognitive decline.
In clinical news we announced the results of a Phase III study that showed both Cialis and tamsulosin significantly improved scores on the International Prostate Symptom Score in men with signs and symptoms suggestive of benign prostatic hyperplasia.
And we announced new Phase II data published in the New England Journal of Medicine that showed ixekizumab and anti-IL-17 monoclonal antibody met its primary endpoint in patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis.
Now let's move on to discuss our financial performance.
As we've done on the previous calls we'll focus our comments on the non-GAAP results which we believe provide insights into the underlying trends in our business.
This excludes certain items such as restructuring charges asset impairments and other special charges.
Turning to the income statement.
On Slide 6 you can see that revenue declined by 4% in Q1 to just over $5.6 billion.
This decrease in revenue was due to the loss of patent exclusivity for Zyprexa in most major markets outside of Japan partially offset by growth from other products.
Excluding Zyprexa outside of Japan the rest of our revenue actually grew 10%.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue decreased 1.2 percentage points from 79.8% to 78.6%.
This decrease in gross margin percent was primarily due to lower sales of Zyprexa partially offset by the impact of foreign exchange rates on international inventories sold.
This quarter's total operating expense defined as the sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A grew 3%.
Within operating expenses marketing selling and administrative expenses grew 3% while R&amp;D expenses grew 2%.
The growth in marketing selling and administrative expenses was driven by the diabetes collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim and increased expense for newer pharmaceutical and animal health products partially offset by lower administrative expenses.
The growth in R&amp;D expense was largely driven by the Boehringer Ingelheim collaboration as well as other late stage clinical trial costs.
When thinking about our year-on-year growth and operating expenses keep in mind that in Q1 last year we only had a partial quarter's worth of expenses for the Boehringer Ingelheim collaboration.
The level of operating expenses in Q1 of this year is squarely in line with our expectations and our full year guidance.
Other income and deductions was a higher net expense this year compared to last year due to recognition in the first quarter of 2011 of a gain on an equity investment and an insurance recovery partially offset by increased interest income in the first quarter of 2012.
Our tax rate was 24.4% this quarter an increase of 3.5 percentage points from Q1 2011 primarily due to the expiration of the R&amp;D tax credit at the end of 2011 as well as a discrete item that increased taxes in the first quarter of 2012 due to changes in estimates concerning certain prior year tax items.
At the bottom line our non-GAAP EPS decreased 26% to $0.92 per share.
Please note that as planned we did retire the $1.5 billion of debt that came due this March and with no additional short-term or long-term borrowing.
In summary our Q1 results clearly reflect the Zypresa patent expirations outside of Japan as well as the additional operating expenses associated with the Boehringer Ingelheim collaboration.
In the face of these known headwinds we've continued to drive revenue growth from many products and prudently manage expenses in the rest of our business putting us on a solid financial footing going forward.
We will continue that same focus and we will rigorously prioritize investments to achieve our midterm financial targets and position the company to return to growth post-2014.
Slide 7 shows our reported income statement while Slide 8 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS.
Additional details about our reported earnings are available in today's earnings press release.
Now I'll turn the call over to Travis.
Thanks Phil.
As you can see on Slide 9 the revenue decline of 4% for the quarter was driven by a negative volume impact of 7% partially offset by a favorable 4% price impact.
Foreign exchange had a negligible impact on worldwide revenue.
By geography you'll notice that U.S.
volume decreased 16%.
This was entirely due to Zyprexa sales erosion.
In fact excluding olanzapine from both 2011 and 2012 volume in the rest of our U.S.
business was up 2%.
Also of note is U.S.
price which increased 12% this quarter following an 18% decrease in Q4 of 2011.
Both periods were affected by our authorized generic olanzapine agreement with Prasco.
In this quarter we recognized our share of Prasco's authorized generic olanzapine revenues with no corresponding units sold by Lilly.
This serves to increase our reported U.S.
price by nearly 3.5 percentage points.
In addition we had favorable adjustments to prior period rebates and accruals that contributed roughly 3 percentage points to U.S.
price.
For Europe the decrease in revenue was also due to the Zyprexa patent expiration.
Excluding Zyprexa from both 2011 and 2012 the rest of our European revenue was essentially flat with volume growth up 6% that was offset by a price decline of 3% and an FX effect of minus 3%.
Japan growth of 5% reflects a negative effect of the biannual price decreases.
This includes lower prices on our sales in March as well as lower customer buying ahead of the price decreases.
Also in Q1 2011 we saw precautionary buying as a result of the earthquake that increased sales by about $30 million to $35 million.
Excluding the $30 million to $35 million of sales from the Q1 2011 base period Japan sales were up 12% to 13% this quarter.
As for Emerging Markets which is embedded in Rest of World we began to experience the impact of generic competition that we discussed as part of our 2012 guidance.
In terms of products the largest impact is coming from Zyprexa.
While in terms of countries the bulk of the impact is coming from Brazil and Mexico.
As a reminder we anticipate...
Apologies.
We experienced a power failure actually in the studio so what I’ll do and not knowing exactly where we cut out.
This is Travis by the way.
I'll start from the beginning of the paragraph.
As for Emerging Markets which is embedded in Rest of World we began to experience the impact of generic competition that we discussed as part of our 2012 guidance.
In terms of products the largest impact is coming from Zyprexa.
While in terms of countries the bulk of the impact is coming from Brazil and Mexico.
As a reminder we anticipate that generic competition will reduce our 2012 Emerging Markets sales by roughly $250 million which equates to 10% of our 2011 Emerging Markets sales.
This quarter the generic impact reduced sales by about 13 percentage points.
Within Emerging Markets China continued to register strong growth up 41% or when excluding FX 34%.
The Elanco Animal Health delivered another quarter of robust performance with volume increasing 31%.
Driving the strong quarter were continued growth of worldwide Trifexis sales the inclusion of the Janssen Animal Health sales and a combination of strong demand and customer buying patterns.
We expect Elanco to deliver double-digit income growth during the YZ years and beyond.
Finally the 26% increase in collaboration and other revenue is due to royalties from telaprevir as well as gross margin sharing with Boehringer Ingelheim for Tradjenta.
Neither of which were present in the Q1 2011 base period.
Slide 10 shows the year-on-year growth of select line items of our non-GAAP income statement with and without the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates.
I'll focus on the second column since the numbers in the first column are the same as those on Slide 6.
As discussed earlier FX had a negligible impact on worldwide revenue.
It also had a negligible effect on underlying foreign currency operating expenses.
However FX did have an impact on cost of goods sold due to its effect on international inventory sold.
Recall that this is an accounting effect only that has no impact on cash flow.
This FX effect increased cost of goods sold in Q1 2011 while it slightly decreased the cost of goods sold in Q1 2012.
Excluding the FX effect on international inventory sold cost of goods sold increased 10% and EPS decreased 30%.
For your information on Slide 11 we've provided the year-over-year growth of select line items of our reported income statement with and without the effects of foreign exchange rates.
Next I'll provide a brief pipeline update before turning the call over to Derica.
Slide 12 shows our pipeline as of April 18.
Changes since our last earnings call are highlighted with green arrows showing progression and red arrows showing attrition.
As Phil mentioned earlier this month the FDA approved Amyvid for use in patients being evaluated for Alzheimer's disease and other causes of cognitive decline.
Beginning in June a limited number of radiopharmacies will be distributing Amyvid with the goal of making their product available in more areas as soon as possible.
When Amyvid becomes available in June this gain will not be covered -- will not be a covered service under the Medicare benefit.
This is due to a Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services policy which has been in place since December 2000.
Lilly is working diligently with a broad group of stakeholders to explore and collaborate with CMS to define a path forward for coverage.
You'll also see that we began Phase II testing of 2 potential oncology medicines.
One a hedgehog antagonist and the other a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor.
And we began Phase I testing of 3 new molecules spanning oncology diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
In addition we terminated development of 4 molecules 3 in Phase II and 1 in Phase I.
We now have 12 potential new medicines in Phase III testing 8 of which are biotech molecules spanning oncology diabetes neuroscience and autoimmune diseases.
We believe this pipeline positions us well for growth post-2014.
Now I'll turn the call over to Derica to cover some of the key events for 2012 our financial guidance and some closing comments before opening the call for Q&amp;A.
Derica? Thanks Travis.
I'll start with Slide 13.
Now while I'll focus my comments on events expected to occur later this year we will now use this slide to report our progress on achieving key events we've highlighted to you for the year.
Now hopefully this provides you with greater transparency on how we're doing.
In the remainder of 2012 we anticipate a couple of FDA decisions.
We'll continue to advance our pipeline and we'll generate and share clinical data that will help investors better gauge our growth potential post-2014.
We anticipate FDA decisions on Alimta as continuation maintenance therapy for patients with nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer and Erbitux for first-line metastatic colorectal cancer.
We anticipate beginning Phase III trials for evacetrapib our CETP inhibitor.
In addition we could begin Phase III trials yet this year for our oral JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor for rheumatoid arthritis in partnership with Incyte.
We also expect to complete a number of important Phase III trials in 2012 including: The EXPEDITION studies with solanezumab for Alzheimer's disease; the TRILOGY study with Effient in ACS-medically-managed patients; and the PARAMOUNT and POINTBREAK studies with Alimta in nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer.
The overall survival data from PARAMOUNT will be disclosed at ASCO in June.
In addition we'll complete a number of the Phase III trials for dulaglutide and in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim for empagliflozin.
So we recently generated key data from 2 important Phase II studies and we plan to disclose these data at upcoming medical meetings.
The first is a dulaglutide Phase II hemodynamic study.
Our plan is to disclose data from the study at ASH the American Society of Hypertension in May.
The second is the Phase IIb trial of the JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor being studied for use in rheumatoid arthritis in partnership with Incyte.
Our plan is to disclose 3-month data at EULAR in June and 6-month data at a medical meeting later this year.
In addition we'll disclose Phase II data at the ADA meeting in June for our novel basal insulin analog being studied for both type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
Now moving onto guidance.
We're pleased with our solid first quarter results and we're encouraged by the current trajectory of our business.
Based upon this trajectory we are increasing our non-GAAP EPS estimate to a range of $3.15 to $3.30.
Now please note that we have now included EPS guidance in both a reported and a non-GAAP basis to reflect the charge taken in the first quarter.
All other line items of our guidance remain unchanged.
Slide 15 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS for 2011 and the associated growth rates from these numbers to our 2012 guidance.
Now in closing we knew 2012 would be a challenging year as we experience the full effect of the Zyprexa patent expiration in most major markets and we are well prepared for this challenge.
For many years we've had a relentless focus on executing our strategy: one to drive productivity gains across all areas of our value chain; second to drive growth in our on-patent brands and in the countercyclical growth areas of Elanco Japan and Emerging Markets; and third and most importantly to replenish and advance our pipeline.
We designed this strategy to enable Lilly to absorb the effect of our patent losses while funding the dividend at least at its current level as well as the R&amp;D that will drive our future growth.
Thus far we've had a solid start to the year.
Our financial performance this quarter positions us well to continue executing our strategy and to meet or exceed our midterm financial projections: minimum annual revenue of at least $20 billion net income of at least $3 billion and operating cash flow of at least $4 billion.
We remain committed to our innovation-based strategy.
We'll maintain a productive investment in R&amp;D through this period of patent expirations and we'll keep our focus on the keys to the Lilly's long-term success advancing our late stage pipeline and sustaining the flow of innovative medicines in the future.
Now as Travis said we have 12 molecules in Phase III development and another 21 in Phase II.
They include a balance of small molecules and biologics an exciting potential to new medicines in diabetes neuroscience oncology and autoimmune diseases.
We believe this pipeline will drive growth post-YZ.
This year we've already begun to generate and disseminate important data that will help investors and analysts better gauge our longer-term growth potential with much more data to come over the course of 2012 and 2013.
We're confident in our strategy and in our ability to successfully navigate our patent expirations and emerge with even greater strength and capacity to drive growth.
This concludes our prepared remarks and now I'll turn it over to Phil.
[Technical Difficulty] [Operator Instructions] Okay.
We apologize for the technical difficulties.
Hopefully this will resolve those.
And we'll go ahead.
Kaylie if you could start with the first caller and move into the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Jami Rubin at Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I have a question related to gross margins.
The gross margin this quarter came in well ahead of what we were expecting.
And just and going back when the company initially gave guidance for the year back in early January The Street was I think at around $3.60 and you guided to $3.10 to $3.20 in large part because of generic Zyprexa which of course wasn't new.
Now you're raising that guidance again by $0.10 and the gross margin came in well ahead of what I think people were looking for.
So maybe Derica if you could just talk to some of the variables that have driven your guidance.
And help us to think about the evolution of gross margins.
I mean at least that's what we missed this quarter.
But you're not changing your gross margin guidance.
So would you expect Q2 and Q3 because of the onslaught of generic competition to be meaningfully below your average guidance of 77%? Maybe if you could just add color there.
And then just on another note with animal health which performed very well if you could talk about the variables that are driving that.
And also if you could remind us what the Janssen acquisition provided for this quarter.
Okay Jami this is Derica.
In regards to gross margin just a few things to keep in mind.
One as we move throughout the year with each quarter of 2012 we will have further declining Zyprexa revenues.
So in 2012 we expect Q1 to have the greatest share of our Zyprexa revenue and then with each subsequent quarter it will decline.
With that decline it has an increasingly negative effect on our gross margin.
So that's going to be bringing our gross margins down as we move through the period.
Secondly you also saw that in the first quarter we had a slightly favorable impact just from exchange rates.
So as the euro has been weakening against the dollar and we've talked about this on past calls you see that that has a favorable impact on our cost of goods sold of inventories during the period which obviously has a favorable impact on gross margin.
I don't if that's sustainable.
And then the third piece is just when you look at the price effect element of it we did see in the first quarter as Travis said there were some growth to net adjustment.
So as we were looking at our AMP calculations and based upon new insights we were able to -- we made some adjustments to our growth to net reserves on the book which turned out to be -- come out – it’s favorable in terms of price.
Now that's what's highlighting and driving our gross margins as we look through the remainder of the year.
In regard to your second question around animal health and what are some of the key things that's driving our guidance in our increase what we saw in the first quarter was very strong revenue growth relative to our expectation.
Animal health alone grew 33% of which volume growth of that was 31%.
Within that volume growth it was primarily driven by both our companion animal business as well as our food animal business.
In the companion animal segment we continue to experience an outstanding launch with Trifexis -- This is our flea and heartworm product -- as well as we continue to actually have good sales of Comfortis.
And then likewise we've seen good performance on the food animal side as well.
In regard to the Janssen acquisition as well as ChemGen which we completed earlier this year that attributed about 1/3 of that total growth.
And so if you look at the 33% 2/3 of that was organically driven.
Jami this is Phil.
One thing I might add in terms of the gross margin percent as you're aware for a while now we've been providing a backup slide.
This will be Slide 18 in this quarter's deck.
That strips out from each of the quarter's results this FX effect on international inventory sold.
These are the 2 lines of numbers at the bottom of that chart.
What that will show is actually in Q1 of last year we had nearly 1 percentage point reduction in the gross margin percent due to FX.
So our true underlying base with 80.7%.
When you look at this quarter we're actually seeing a 2.4 percentage point reduction in the gross margin percent.
So very substantial.
It seems to be in line with what people had been expecting.
And I'm wondering actually if people -- they were looking at the base to figure their decline off of and they had been looking at the base that included that negative effect from FX last year that wouldn't necessarily have been the appropriate base to take it down from.
As Derica mentioned we do expect to see further deterioration through the year particularly given the Zyprexa erosion that we anticipate largely here in the U.S.
We've now entered I think as of today or yesterday the period where multiple generics can now come to market.
And that will bring a different dynamic than we saw in the first quarter.
The last thing I'll leave you with Jami is that we were able to drive outside of the Zyprexa patent erosion and the remaining elements of Gemzar good volume growth across the other elements of our business.
So in addition to animal health we saw good growth in China 41% as well as key brands like Cymbalta 23%.
And even in insulins which grew -- Humalog grew 12%.
So that was always part of our strategy in terms of those 3 strategic levers making sure that we were driving growth in those areas where we weren't experiencing patent expiration.
We'll go to the line of Marc Goodman at UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First can you just tell us what were the key products impacted by that gross to net adjustment? Second Alimta o U.S.
looks like it flattened out.
And I was wondering if you could just give us a little bit of insight what was going on there.
And then third I get this question so I figured out I'll ask you.
If solanezumab ends up being positive data later this year what do you do differently as a company with respect to R&amp;D SG&amp;A? And if it fails what do you do differently as a company with respect to spending? Okay.
Marc this is Phil.
I'll take your first 2 and then maybe Derica want to a crack or John at the last one.
So the products on the gross to net adjustment it really was across the board.
This was -- it's a phenomenon Marc that we've seen each and every quarter.
Sometimes it's as a slight benefit; sometimes it's a slight headwind.
This quarter it was a little larger benefit than we've had in some prior periods due to the size of the adjustment.
And would have contributed about 3 percentage points of growth; that shows up in the price column to our U.S.
sales.
A slowdown in Alimta o U.S.
the primary driver compared to prior quarters really is FX.
If you go back sort of mid-last year and you had FX contributing double digits.
I think in Q2 for example it peaked maybe at 11% contribution to overall growth whereas it actually reduced sales by 1 percentage point this quarter.
We also have seen the volume growth in percentage terms begin to decrease somewhat as we have a larger base that we're comparing against.
The last thing I'd highlight is we did have price reductions that go in effect for the public April 1.
They'll actually go in effect for us and sales to wholesalers as of March 1 in Japan the partner biannual price adjustment process.
And Alimta had a substantial price reduction on the order of magnitude of 25%.
So we saw one month of that in the quarter.
Marc in regards to your question around solanezumab and how does that affect Lilly in terms of its potential outcomes it does -- in terms of our overall strategy it doesn't affect us significantly at all.
We've stated all along that solanezumab was not the homerun bet for Lilly.
And it's one of the 12 molecules that we have in Phase III development.
So therefore if we're unsuccessful with solanezumab we continue with our action plans as stated.
We will continue to progress the remaining 11 molecules that we have in critical development in Phase III as well as the other 21 in Phase II.
And we'll continue to try to invest to drive the growth in our key growth opportunities.
Obviously if it's successful given the low probability that of technical success it represents upside for the firm.
But R&amp;D innovation is still going to be the cornerstone of our strategy.
So it doesn't lessen our focus still on those remaining 11 molecules in Phase III.
That will come from the line of Chris Schott at JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question was just with regards to your JAK potentially moving into Phase III later this year.
Can you just elaborate a little bit about how you see that product differentiating from Pfizer's product? And just maybe more broadly the evolution of the RA market.
How do you see the oral drugs playing here? Do you actually think maybe it's a positive that you could be the second JAK in the market over time given how slow this market seems to evolve over time? The second question I had is maybe just following up on the expense structure here.
Beyond solanezumab you obviously highlighted a number of important pipeline data releases this year more coming in '13.
Does there come a point where you do a broader strategic review of the overall spend level relative to new product opportunities? I guess basically should we expect at some point you take a broader look at the pipeline once all this data comes in? Or is this really an evolutionary process -- as individual data points come in you evaluate and kind of go from there? We'll have Jan handle JAK1/JAK2 and then we'll move over to Derica for your second question.
Jan? Yes the overall JAK class is an interesting new opportunity then for oral agents in autoimmune disease.
And the interesting piece coming up here will be how differentiated will these different JAK molecules be? They do have differences in their selectivity versus various members of the JAK family at least then in pharmacology in-vitro.
And I think it needs to be determined what type of clinical significance do these differences have.
We know that our and the Incyte molecule is more JAK1/JAK2 selective while the Pfizer molecule is more a pan-JAK molecule.
We also know that our molecule is likely to be once daily where as the Pfizer molecule is twice daily.
We need to see now in our bigger extended trials what happens in relation to efficacy and also in particular safety if there are any differences versus the Pfizer agents.
And as stated here we will communicate our 3-month data as well as 6-month data this year.
So you will see more data from our agent.
And we're also eager to see what the outcome which is certainly happening then for the Pfizer molecule will give us in relation to additional information in this important class.
Derica? Clearly we have plans in place in terms of how we saw navigating our way through this period of patent expiry.
And that was all centered around driving growth where we could which we create the capacity to fund R&amp;D in our pipeline as well as sustain our dividend.
Now as those cards begin to be turned over and as we see data unveil from our pipeline our plans are not static.
As so obviously we will adjust along the way.
Now our expectations are that we believe we should be able to yield enough positive outcome for our pipeline that will support our long-term strategy.
If the result ends up being different than that and we saw through what the implications to that are and obviously we'll go and begin to pull some of those levers.
But at this stage we put forward you guys in our call text as well as in the slides we tried to lay out in as transparent manner as we can what are the key events that we're monitoring both internally and hopefully you're tracking externally.
And we're trying to highlight there in those key events as those cards are unfold or turned over what's the outcome? So each one of those checks we're very encouraged here both with the approval of Amyvid this quarter as well as what we believe to be exciting data that we unveiled on is IL-17 our ixekizumab for the treatment of psoriasis in moderate to a severe patient.
And as we continue to see data like that that gives us even more encouragement about the future prospects of Lilly.
We'll go to the line of David Risinger of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions on the pipeline for Jan.
The first is [indiscernible] is discussing recently very recently pre-specifying additional analyses for bapineuzumab for Phase III such as mild patients and maybe trying to pool the data on mild patients from the 2 different trials that they're running in the U.S.
and file for approval on that.
I'm just curious about whether Lilly is pre-specifying additional groups for the analysis of solanezumab or whether essentially all the weight is on the primary endpoints in the studies.
And then my second question is with respect to the ImClone pipeline assets Jan if you could please update us on the timing of the key readouts.
I'd appreciate it.
Okay great.
Jan? Right.
If you look at the solanezumab's primary endpoints it's really about cognition and also activities of daily living.
And we want to see positive responses here from both trials on both of these parameters.
In relation to types of patients we have both mild and moderate and we have apoE types as well.
So it will be an opportunity here to discuss with regulators then what are the outcomes based on the data that we get? The ImClone pipeline as we know is focused very much on the ramucirumab in Phase III which has 5 different trials then ongoing in different countertypes which we'll start to readout next year and in the coming years.
And we also have necitumumab for squamous non-small cell lung cancer indication which also we'll complete their studies most likely next year.
But its event-driven so that will be dependent on that.
And before these 2 agents there are a number of other anti-bodies then which are tested in different tumors.
And here I think it's still early to say when these will progress further then into late stage development.
We need to generate more data in our signal searching.
Sure.
David this is Travis.
A couple of things.
For ramucirumab I believe the current expectation is reflected on clinicaltrials.gov is that both the first of the 2 gastric cancer trials as well as the hepatocellular trial would produce results next year with other indications to follow subsequently.
Necitumumab the other Phase III asset from ImClone likely we're in the early '14 I believe for the data readout on the squamous non-small cell lung cancer trial.
Then also keep in mind that we're awaiting word from the FDA on the first-line metastatic colorectal cancer indication for Erbitux as well.
We'll go to the line of Tim Anderson at Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> On your proprietary basal insulin if I remember right you said you need to see differentiation to really take that through full development.
And I'm wondering if you can call out where you hope to see differentiation based on early work that you've done.
It is something like dosing flexibility or flatter PK/PD profile or what exactly? And then on solanezumab just if I can get an update on timing.
You said in the past it would not make the late July meetings.
I think it used to be called ICAD [ph].
What would be the next logical medical meeting after that because it doesn't look like there's much in the second half of the year? ANA is in October but that's not typically an Alzheimer's meeting.
And it kind of begs the question of is your goal still to present results for the first time at a medical meeting versus top lining them in the press release? Great.
Jan? Okay.
If we look at our novel basal insulin we are looking there to differentiate with some clinically meaningful outcome for our diabetes patients.
And this could be for instance less hypoglycemia versus Lantus.
It could be differences in body weight changes versus Lantus and potentially could be even a better glycemic control.
We know from our earlier studies that this agent has a very flat profile with very small interindividual variation.
So we are very hopeful about the types of differentiation that we can see from this agent and we will report at the ADA in June our data from both type 1 and type 2 studies comparing with Lantus.
The timing for solanezumab communication et cetera is as follows.
The first EXPEDITION trial has completed.
Last patient visit now in April; the second one we'll do it in June.
We will have a quarter 4 communication of the data in detail and plan also to have a high level communication before that on the top line data.
Tim this is Ilissa.
Just to give an update of the DMC did meet again earlier this month and they recommended continuing the double-blind and open-label studies without modification.
Okay.
The last thing I'd add in terms of ADA and the information on our novel basal insulin analog we will have I think 10 different abstracts and presentations at ADA this year spanning preclinical Phase I and the 2 Phase II trials.
And we are anticipating we'll have more details for you in the next week or 2 on having an investor event at ADA to discuss not only the data for the novel basal insulin analog but also the data we've presented earlier in May on our hemodynamic study for dulaglutide.
So look for the notice on that.
We look forward to having you participate in the call or some of you live with us at ADA.
We'll go to the line of Mark Schoenebaum at ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask about something that I think is -- personally I think is Lilly's most important commercial business which is the insulin business.
I haven't heard any questions on this from the analysts.
So and a little last year has looked like you guys have done a good job of stabilizing the share losses to Novo.
So I'm kind of wondering Derica I'm not sure who to direct the question to but if you could kind of give us an update and reflect back on 2011 what you did to stabilize that share.
And how as analysts and investors we should be thinking about share in the U.S.
and in Europe for the insulin franchise versus Novo? And then the corollary to that is if you could update us on what's going on in Emerging Markets.
I know in the Emerging Markets in the insulin business right now you trail Novo quite a bit.
But in a sense if that's all room for upside.
So maybe you could give us an update on share and how that market overall is growing.
And then the second question I had was I think this is the last conference call we're going to have with you guys before the Supreme Court has its way with the health care law.
And I was just wondering in general over the short term and over the long term if the mandate is struck down and if the overall law is struck down what kind of impact do you see to Lilly's short-term business and also the long term? I'd appreciate any comments you have around that.
Great.
Let's go ahead and have Derica take the insulin and we'll have Travis who wants to help.
Who followed that business with the team over the last quarter.
And then John if you'd comment on the Supreme Court ruling.
Derica? In the U.S.
if you look at our insulin business and specifically Humalog we've had a number of interventions I think that’s improved our performance there [indiscernible] the president of that unit was here.
He’d probably say one was we obviously have gone back and upped our game in terms of our medical reps and the quality information they're bringing.
With that it's accentuated through: one the launch of the 3 ml vial in the hospital setting and that's allowed us to gain much greater traction there.
Third we've been able to really leverage the launch of Tradjenta on our insulin business.
So therefore we're bringing more comprehensive meaningful solutions to the customer and the physician in this case.
And then last but not least obviously we've also had some impact in contracting.
Now what you'll see is that year-to-year that's going to ebb and flow.
So last year in 2011 we benefited from some of the contracting work that we have done.
And if you look at our Q1 results and you're tracking the shares in Humalog in the U.S.
you'll see in the first quarter we've lost some share and this was essentially due to us losing the CBS [ph] contract to Novo.
But still the underlying performance has gone quite steady and we see improvements and including in our key markets outside of U.S.
where we continue to gain share as well.
And Mark this is Travis.
The only thing I'll add to Derica's comment around the Caremark formulary is that there were really 2 parts of that that impacted our business.
One being the Medicare Part D part and then the other part being the commercial part.
With respect to erosion of share based on loss of that formulary we do expect that with that as largely behind us on both of those parts it is worth noting that the custom plans which are part of the commercial part we did not see share of market erosion.
So I just wanted to leave that point with you as well.
In terms of Emerging Markets in diabetes diabetes is an area of great importance for us in Emerging Markets and our goal is to regain market leadership in diabetes.
This quarter we saw strong growth in Humalog.
In terms of how we perform against Novo we have approximately a 15% share and this is something we're going to grow over time but it will take time.
One thing that's of key importance is ACCEPT.
We've made significant progress on this front.
And it has now put us on equal footing with Novo.
In terms of growth just to put some numbers around that if you look at the last sort of trailing 12 months the latest data we have is of January.
But mealtime insulin market in China is growing around 17% and changing.
Our growth market was over 60% 6-0%.
John? Well everybody else has commented on diabetes so I'd better get my 2 cents' worth in.
I think you're right Mark.
This is -- we view diabetes as being figuratively and literally the heart of our business.
And insulin and continued competitiveness in insulin is the key for our success in this therapeutic area.
I think looking ahead what are the levers that we have and what are the things that we think will amount to critical success factors.
Certainly the BI partnership which is global in reach gives us not only additional coverage and presence in key markets but also access to new molecules.
We're focused on increasing the competitiveness of our manufacturing process and the competitiveness of the delivery devices that more and more are key determinants of patient choice in terms of people starting on insulin therapy.
And of course innovation.
We have a pipeline today in concert with BI that includes the DPP-4 Tradjenta currently the fastest-growing class empagliflozin now completing Phase III.
We have dulaglutide our GLP and of course 2 insulins.
So I think all of this [indiscernible] well for us being able to offer a broad range of products to the diabetologist to the physician to really focus on what the patient needs and not just on what we have to offer.
With respect to the Supreme Court obviously if the law is upheld we keep on keeping on.
Last year to put this in perspective we paid about $586 million out of our treasury as a result of the Affordable Care Act.
That was partly the fee partly the increase the rebate on products sold into Medicaid and then the additional money needed to help Medicare patients bridge the donut hole.
If the law is overturned obviously we would not have that sort of short.
We would presumably regain what we essentially paid out in 2011 at least going forward.
On the other hand until something comes along that can replace the ACA I don't think any of us believe there's a "status quo." It will be unclear how we address the very real needs of 50 million people in this country who are uninsured and who therefore presumably have less access or no access to products like the ones that Lilly offers.
We'll go to the line of John Boris at Citi.
Research Division</strong> First couple are just pipeline related for Jan on solanezumab.
Can you give any commentary on the dropouts or dropout rate out of the clinical trials that are currently ongoing? Second question on the pipeline has to do with the BI deal.
There certainly is the prospects for attractive combination products.
Are you and BI exploring a combination of Tradjenta with impactful flows? And going forward it would seem that the hemoglobin A1C [ph] lowering effect to that combo could potentially be pretty compelling? And then last question for John just on the political scene.
If we can possibly just get an update there in particular on how PDUFA is being shaped.
And also do you see potentially there being any risk to higher discounts or rebates on dual eligibles and any additional givebacks on Medicare Part D? John we'll have Jan start off and maybe Ilissa chime in.
And then we'll in move over to John for the last part of your question.
Yes if you look at the dropout rates for the sola trial it's a different pattern than what we saw for semagacestat.
For semagacestat there were many more issues with patients dropping out because of side effects.
For solanezumab there is a small dropout but that has mainly been due to practical reasons with infusion centers et cetera.
So I think we are quite encouraged by this and also by the follow-on trial where 95% of the patients had continued actually with solanezumab infusions.
So I think that tells about the safety profile of these agents.
I agree that to have both the DPP-4 and the SGL T-2 in the pipeline is great.
And we have opportunities which we are pursuing there off combos between these 2 agents.
John this is John Leichleiter.
I think on PDUFA we're pleased at this stage with the way in which the PDUFA 5 [ph] has been received on Capitol Hill.
Certainly we've engaged in a lot of dialogue with legislators there.
And we believe that we're making good progress towards the passage of that including the reauthorization of the pediatric extension or pediatric exclusivity provision.
With respect to some of the issues that we've wrestled with certainly in the last year in the context of the deficit reduction and other things the higher rebates for the duals or other changes to Medicare Part D I expect these are going to continue to be discussed.
I don't expect in light of this being an election year that there's going to be action one way or the other but obviously waiting.
So the country is wrestling this long-term deficit and the consequences of that to the ground.
And I expect we're going to have to continue to stay very attentive to this issue and tuned into this.
And to continue to make the case that Medicare Part D is not only working for seniors it's wildly exceeding anyone's expectation in terms of its effectiveness and its cost.
We are nearing the top of the hour which is our allotted time for the call.
Because of technical difficulties we will continue for a few more minutes.
That will come from the line of Greg Gilbert at Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> A couple for Jan.
First anything to update as on the timing and design of the evacetrapib studies.
Secondly on your GLP-1 given that you have results in-house can you comment on your confidence in the safety profile of your drug versus the class? Or in any way that you feel comfortable disclosing the bigger picture confidence there? And I guess lastly for John I can't let you off the hook on Washington matters here.
Which way is the wind blowing on taxation and repatriation? And when might we see some action on those fronts if ever? Great.
Jan? Yes.
Let's start with the evacetrapib.
As you know we communicated a very promising data then in the fall.
And we have -- during extensive planning then for the Phase III trial including then interaction with regulators which we are close to completing.
We have also been preparing the CMC material for the trial.
We feel very good about the options we have to start this trial before the end of this year as we have communicated.
In relation to safety of dulaglutide Enrica [ph] presented some data last year about this agent.
And as we said we have completed the large hemodynamic study which was originally a potential Achilles' heel for this agent.
And we will now present this data very soon at the American Society of Hypertension meeting which I think will clarify the situation for this agent.
But we are very confident.
Greg with respect to your last question I'm going to turn it over to our tax expert Mr.
Rice.
Obviously there are discussions and debates that continues.
I think given this being an election year no one anticipates that there's going to be any resolution on the tax front.
And likewise same thing is true in terms of repatriation.
I think everyone is gearing towards that.
Obviously there are multiple proposals out there depending upon what member of Congress you're talking to or the Senate.
So this is just a space we're going to have to continue to watch.
We continue to engage.
From our position our focus is on obviously if we can go to a territorial tax system we believe that that will be best for all.
And if we can get repatriation relief that would be outstanding.
But that's not our #1 priority.
We'll go to the line of Seamus Fernandez at Leerink.
Research Division</strong> So just a quick question on the Alimta patent situation.
Can you update us on progress both in Europe and the U.S.
with regard to the patent that could potentially extend the life of Alimta to 2021 2022? And how that might bake into your long-term expectations for the business? And then second question is really on the evolution of the potential insulin portfolio.
Can you just give us again not just the thoughts on how the COGS could improve from the development or successful development of both the novel basal insulin and the biosimilar? But how do you envision the market evolving with both of those products potentially available? Ilissa I think tackle the Alimta patent question and then I think Derica might want to chime in as well.
Ilissa? The patent for Alimta that you're referring to covers the administration of folic acid and vitamin B12 prior to treatment of patients with Alimta.
In terms of an update there was a Markman hearing that occurred yesterday.
And that case was to determine the meaning of 2 disputed claim terms vitamin B12 and patient.
That hearing happened yesterday.
The judge did state that a decision is expected within 45 days.
Other than that the case is still in early stages of fact discovery and a trial date has not been set.
Obviously we're not able to speculate on what the outcome will be but we're prepared to continue our vigorous defense of this patent.
And as you mentioned it would extend Alimta exclusivity through May 2022 in the U.S.
and 2020 in Europe.
And then the first instance overseas in Europe Seamus we had prevailed.
That's now in the process of appeal.
I don't know that any hearings are scheduled to occur again in that particular proceeding until potentially into next year.
Derica do you want to comment at all on sort of how this might play into our planning going forward if it's upheld or if it's not upheld? Seamus if this is upheld then this will be upside for us.
And clearly we will reap the benefits of the continuing revenue stream and obviously cash flow from that.
In regard to your next question in terms of the evolution of our insulin portfolio we actually are very excited about the breadth of portfolio that we have in the diabetes space going from our presence now in oral to our presence in GLP to now with the 2 basal insulins that we have and the development of the basal space as well as the mealtime.
So we believe on a competitive front we'd be the only big pharma company that will play in all of the diabetes segments.
As it relates to the particular -- the insulin portfolio in particular and in focusing more on the basals we believe just looking at the basal space clearly Lantus glargine has become the standard of care there and we believe it will have a continuing presence there.
So we looked at the market dissection.
We believe Lantus will retain at least about 1/3 of the basal market.
We believe that biosimilars including our glargine-like product will occupy about that second third.
And then we believe there's space for a new innovation in that basal space and this is where we look to play with our novel basal insulin in that last third.
Thanks Derica.
As always we definitely appreciate your interest in Lilly and your participation in today's call.
In particular today we appreciate your patience as we worked through technical difficulties.
If you do have additional questions the IR team will be available throughout the day.
Hope you have a great day.
We'll talk to you soon.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Q2 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Vice President Investor Relations Phil Johnson.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us for Eli Lilly &amp; Co.'s Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Phil Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me are John Lechleiter our Chairman President and CEO; Derica Rice our Chief Financial Officer; Dr.
Jan Lundberg our President of Lilly Research Laboratories; Dave Ricks President of our Lilly Bio-Medicines business; Enrique Conterno President of our Diabetes business; and Ilissa Rassner and Travis Coy from the Investor Relations team.
During this conference call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on Slide 3 and those outlined in our latest forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
We're very pleased with our performance in the second quarter 2012.
In the face of significant reductions in revenue and earnings due to the Zyprexa patent expiration Lilly employees around the world continue to focus on execution.
They delivered results that position us to raise our 2012 financial guidance and it places us on track to meet or exceed our financial minimum goals through 2014.
Let's begin today's call with a review of events that have taken place since our last earnings call.
First 2 important decisions from Washington.
In a much-anticipated ruling the Supreme Court upheld most aspects of the Affordable Care Act and the FDA Safety and Improvement Act was signed into law which included the reauthorization of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act or PDUFA.
From a commercial perspective Cymbalta received pediatric exclusivity from the U.S.
FDA.
As a result U.S.
exclusivity for Cymbalta will expire in December 2013 and Amyvid became available to imaging centers in many U.S.
cities across the country.
On the regulatory front the U.S.
FDA approved Erbitux in combination with FOLFIRI as first-line treatment for patients with KRAS mutation-negative EGFR-expressing metastatic colorectal cancer and Europe's CHMP issued a positive opinion recommending approval of Jentadueto for use along with diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes who are inadequately controlled by metformin or sulfonylurea or a combination of both as well as those who were already taking linagliptin and metformin.
I'm pleased to report that we just recently received European Commission approval for this indication.
In clinical news we presented Phase II data on 3 compounds.
At the American Diabetes Association scientific sessions we presented data on our novel basal insulin analog from Phase II studies in patients with both type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
At the meeting of the American Society of Hypertension we presented the data from a large Phase II ambulatory blood pressure monitoring safety study of dulaglutide.
And along with Incyte at the European League Against Rheumatism's Annual European Congress of Rheumatology we presented 12-week data from the Phase IIb trial of baricitinib in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis.
We believe that these Phase II data support the decisions we've made to move our novel basal insulin analog and dulaglutide into Phase III testing.
And in the case of baricitinib if supported by the 24-week data of moving that molecule into Phase III testing in rheumatoid arthritis later this year or early next year.
In other clinical news we also announced the first of 2 pivotal trials for pomaglumetad  methionil as monotherapy therapy for schizophrenia did not meet its primary efficacy endpoints.
Interim data from the second pivotal monotherapy trial and final data from a Phase II adjunctive trial are expected later this year and will inform future development plans for the molecule.
At the meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology we presented overall survival data from the Phase III PARAMOUNT trial with Alimta induction therapy followed by Alimta's maintenance therapy.
Patients on the Alimta continuation maintenance arm achieved a median overall survival of 13.9 months from randomization compared to 11.0 months from randomization for patients on the placebo arm.
We expect FDA action later this year on our sNDA for this indication.
There are a few other important events over the past few months.
Our Board of Directors authorized the resumption of a share repurchase program begun in 2000.
We expect to purchase the remaining 420 million in shares by the end of this year.
Following the completion of the current program we anticipate resuming share repurchases with size and timing subject to board approval.
The district court judge provided a ruling in the Markman hearing held as part of litigation on Alimta's method-of-use patent which expires in the U.S.
in 2022.
The judge's ruling was in line with Lilly's interpretation of the 2 disputed terms: "patient" and "vitamin B12." The trial will now move into the discovery phase.
A trial date has not yet been set.
Finally we took a number of actions to reinforce Lilly's vibrant long-term presence in China.
Specifically we opened a Lilly China Research and Development Center focused on discovering innovative diabetes medicines tailored to the Chinese population.
We inaugurated the Lilly China East Lake [ph]  Manufacturing site which will provide insulin capacity for anticipated growth in our sales of Humulin and Humalog.
And we announced an expanded collaboration with Novast Laboratories a generic and specialty pharmaceutical company based in Nantong China.
Lilly will increase its equity position in Novast by $20 million while Novast will increase the manufacturing capacity at its Nantong site over the next several years.
We expect this expanded collaboration will enhance our efforts to build a portfolio of Lilly-branded generic medicines in China.
Now let's move on to discuss our financial performance.
As we've done on previous calls we'll focus our comments on the non-GAAP results which we believe provide insights into the underlying trends in our business.
This view excludes certain items such as restructuring charges asset impairments and other special charges.
Turning to the income statement on Slide 7 you can see that revenue in Q2 was $5.6 billion a decline of 10% from Q2 of last year.
This decrease in revenue was due to the loss of patent exclusivity for Zyprexa in most major markets outside of Japan partially offset by growth from other products.
Excluding Zyprexa outside of Japan the rest of our worldwide revenue grew 8%.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue decreased to 0.9 percentage points from 80.4% to 79.5%.
The gross margin percent was negatively affected by lower Zyprexa sales.
However this was largely offset by the impact of foreign exchange rates on international inventories sold.
Excluding this effect of FX from both 2011 and 2012 gross margin as a percent of revenue declined by nearly 4 percentage points from 81.7% in Q2 of 2011 to 77.9% in Q2 of 2012.
As in past quarters we've included a supplementary slide providing our gross margin percent for the last 10 quarters with and without this FX effect.
Moving down the income statement this quarter's total operating expense defined as the sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A declined 2%.
Within operating expenses marketing selling and administrative expenses fell 5% while R&amp;D expenses grew 5%.
The reduction in marketing selling and administrative expenses was driven by lower marketing expenses and to a lesser extent by lower administrative expenses.
The growth in R&amp;D expense was largely driven by higher late-stage clinical trial costs.
Other income and deductions was a modestly smaller net expense in this year's quarter.
In Q2 last year we recognized a write-down in the value of the liprotamase that was only partially offset by a gain on sale of investment securities.
Our tax rate was 22.1% this quarter an increase of 1.2 percentage points from Q2 2011 primarily due to the expiration of the R&amp;D tax credit at the end of 2011.
At the bottom line our non-GAAP EPS decreased 30% to $0.83 per share.
In summary our Q2 results clearly reflect Zyprexa patent expirations outside of Japan.
At the same time we've continued to drive revenue growth for many products and prudently managed expenses in the rest of our business putting us on a solid financial footing going forward.
We'll continue that same focus and we'll rigorously prioritize investments to achieve our midterm financial targets and position the company to return to growth post 2014.
Slide 8 shows our reported income statement while Slide 9 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS.
Additional details about our reported earnings are available in today's earnings press release.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ilissa.
Thanks Phil.
As you can see on Slide 10 the total revenue decline of 10% for the quarter was driven by a negative volume impact of 9% and a negative foreign exchange impact of 2% partially offset by a favorable price impact of 1%.
By geography you'll notice that U.S.
volume decreased 20%.
This was entirely due to Zyprexa sales erosion.
Excluding olanzapine from both 2011 and 2012 volume in the rest of our U.S.
business was up about 1.5%.
Similarly in Europe the volume decline of 12% was entirely due to the Zyprexa patent expiration.
Excluding Zyprexa from both 2011 and 2012 volume growth for the rest of our European products was 6%.
The year-on-year European price change of negative 8% was also heavily influenced by Zyprexa.
Excluding Zyprexa European price declined 3%.
Historically we've experienced a 1% to 2% price decline in Europe.
So this 3% decline confirms that we've not seen significant new austerity measures that impact our products.
Staying in Europe accounts receivable particularly in Southern Europe has been a hot topic lately.
And thinking about our exposure keep in mind that the majority of our European sales are to private sector wholesalers.
Payments by these customers have remained timely throughout the European crisis.
A smaller portion of our sales are to government entities particularly sales to hospitals.
Receivables from these customers have been and continue to be immaterial to our financial position.
Currently our European receivables and the percent of receivables that are overdue are lower than they've been for many years.
Given the economic situation we will continue to closely monitor and manage our European receivables.
Turning to Japan robust volume growth of 18% was driven primarily by Forteo Alimta and Zyprexa while the negative 5% price impact reflects a full quarter of the biannual price decreases with Alimta and Gemzar seeing the largest impact.
Within the ROW line I'd highlight continued strong growth in China which grew 28% this quarter with strong growth across multiple products most notably Humalog Humulin and Zyprexa as well as Alimta Cialis and Cymbalta.
More generally emerging market sales declined 3% driven by a 5% decline from weaker foreign currencies.
Excluding FX Emerging Markets' revenue grew 2% despite a significant impact of generics particularly in Brazil and Mexico.
As we discussed when providing 2012 guidance in early January in 2012 we expect generics to negatively affect our emerging market sales by about $250 million or roughly 10% of 2011 Emerging Markets sales.
Excluding the effect of generics in Q2 our Emerging Markets business would have grown 12% in performance.
Elanco Animal Health once again delivered strong growth with volume increasing 26%.
Driving the strong quarter were continued growth of Trifexis the inclusion of Janssen and ChemGen animal health sales and continued strong demand for our food annual products.
Elanco continues to outperform the broader animal health market and is poised to deliver double-digit income growth during the YZ years and beyond.
Finally the 13% decrease in collaboration and other revenue is due to the transfer of U.S.
exenatide rights to Amylin.
Excluding exenatide collaboration and other revenue grew 22% in the quarter.
Slide 11 shows the year-on-year growth of select line items of our non-GAAP income statement with and without the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates.
Before I run through the specific numbers however I want to highlight that despite weaker foreign currencies FX contributed positively to EPS growth in Q2.
This is because the negative effect of FX on our revenue was more than offset by the positive effect of FX on operating expenses and on international inventories sold that flows through cost of sales.
As we've discussed in the past this effect on cost of goods sold provides a near-term natural hedge against movements in FX rates.
Getting into the details I'll focus on the second column of numbers since the numbers in the first column are the same as those on Slide 7.
In Q2 FX movements reduced growth in revenue and operating expenses by only a couple of percentage points.
You can see that excluding FX revenue declined 8% and operating expenses were flat.
While FX had a relatively modest impact on revenue and operating expenses that was not the case for cost of goods sold.
As I mentioned earlier cost of goods sold was significantly affected by the impact of FX on international inventories sold.
Specifically in Q2 of last year this FX affect substantially increased cost of goods sold while in this year's second quarter it substantially decreased cost of goods sold.
It was this affect that drove cost of sales as reported to decrease 7% year-on-year.
Excluding FX cost of sales grew 10%.
Compensation and benefits and depreciation make up the majority of our manufacturing expenses.
And these items actually declined versus last year.
The 10% performance increase in cost of goods sold was driven by a host of miscellaneous items.
At the bottom line you can see that excluding FX Q2 EPS declined 37%.
For your information on Slide 12 we've provided the year-on-year growth of select line items of our reported income statement with and without the effect of foreign exchange rates.
Next I'll provide a brief pipeline update before turning the call over to Derica.
Slide 13 shows our pipeline as of July 15.
Changes since our last earnings call are highlighted with green arrows showing progression and red arrows showing attrition.
You'll see that we began Phase II testing of our once-daily oral beta-secretase inhibitor for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
In addition we began Phase II testing of 2 potential oncology medicines.
One is the JAK2 inhibitor Jan discussed at last June's investment community meeting while the other is a Chk1 inhibitor.
And we began Phase I testing of potential medicines for osteoarthritis and chronic kidney disease.
Finally we terminated development of a Phase I diabetes molecule.
We believe our pipeline of 12 potential new medicines in Phase III testing 8 of which are biotech molecules spanning oncology diabetes neuroscience and autoimmune diseases positions us for growth post 2014.
Now I'll turn the call over to Derica to cover some of the key events for 2012 our financial guidance and some closing comments before we open the call for Q&amp;A.
Derica? Thanks Ilissa.
As I've have done in the past I'll start with the progress update on key events we've highlighted for 2012.
The green check marks show what we've achieved so far this year including regulatory approval of Amyvid and of new indications or line extensions for Trajenta and Erbitux as well as important data disclosures for Alimta dulaglutide ixekizumab and our novel basal insulin analog.
In the remainder of 2012 we anticipate an FDA decision on Alimta as continuation maintenance therapy for patients with non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer.
We also could begin Phase III trials for evacetrapib our CETP inhibitor as well as for baricitinib our oral JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor for rheumatoid arthritis in partnership with Incyte.
In addition we expect to compete and disclose data from a number of important Phase III trials including the EXPEDITION studies with solanezumab for Alzheimer's disease; the TRILOGY study with Effient and ACS medically managed patients; and the POINTBREAK study with Alimta a non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer.
We will also complete a number of the Phase III trials for dulaglutide and in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim for empagliflozin.
We expect to disclose results from some of these trials at the ADA in 2013.
And we plan to disclose 24-week data from the Phase IIb trial of baricitinib at a medical meeting later this year.
As outlined in our press release we've updated our 2012 financial guidance.
This update takes into account the impact of weaker foreign currencies strong sales performance for Cymbalta Cialis Evista Forteo Alimta and Elanco and the expectation that OUS [ph]  Rights for exenatide transfer in 2013 and not in 2012.
Our guidance does not assume accelerated repayment of Amylin's revenue-sharing obligation.
In terms of the individual line items we still project revenue to be between $21.8 billion and $22.8 billion.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue is now projected to be approximately 78%.
Marketing selling and administrative expenses are now forecast to be between $7.3 billion and $7.7 billion.
R&amp;D expenses are still expected to be between $5 billion and $5.3 billion.
OID is now expected to be in the range of a net deduction of $75 million to a net income of $50 million.
The tax rate is still expected to be approximately 21%.
This assumes the R&amp;D tax credit is passed before year end and is made retroactive to January 1.
We believe it is likely that this will occur in the fourth quarter and will result in a meaningful EPS benefit in Q4 as our Q4 tax rate will be significantly lower than in Q3 or the first half of the year.
Driven primarily by stronger underlying sales performance that offsets the negative effect of FX as well as by the positive effect of FX on cost of goods sold EPS is now expected to be in the range of $3.30 to $3.40 per share.
Finally we still expect capital expenditures to be roughly $800 million.
Now slide 16 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS for 2011 and the associated growth rates from these numbers to our 2012 guidance.
Now looking beyond 2012 we've built a solid foundation to bridge this period of patent expirations and return to sustainable growth post 2014.
Since 2009 we provided you with our minimum financial performance goals through 2014 and mile markers to track our progress.
We said we expect annual revenue to be at least $20 billion net income to be at least $3 billion and operating cash flow to be at least $4 billion.
We continue to hold these goals.
This will position us to fund the R&amp;D that will drive our future growth recapitalize our physical assets and engage in opportunistic business development while paying the dividend at least at its current level.
Now we said that at our top priority was to replenish and advance our pipeline and that we expected to have at least 10 assets in Phase III testing by the end of 2011.
As you know we finished last year with 12 assets in Phase III including 4 in diabetes 3 in oncology 3 in neuroscience and 2 in autoimmune.
We also have more than 20 assets in Phase II testing and expect to maintain a robust Phase III portfolio which gives us the confidence that we can deliver a more sustainable flow of innovative medicines than in the recent past.
As I mentioned in the coming months we could begin Phase III testing for evacetrapib and baricitinib both of which have generated very encouraging Phase II data.
We also said that we would invest to drive growth in Japan emerging markets and Elanco as well as in brands not losing patent protection during this period brands like Alimta Cialis Forteo and our insulins.
We've continued to deliver strong growth in these areas.
Collectively Japan emerging markets and Elanco grew over 11% in Q2 which was nearly 14% excluding FX and now represent 30% of our total corporate revenue up from 24% in Q2 of last year.
In total Alimta Cialis Forteo and our insulins grew 5% in Q2 or 8% excluding FX.
Finally we said that we would improve productivity across our business reducing our cost structure to help fund R&amp;D.
We exceeded our goals of reducing our projected 2011 costs by $1 billion and reducing our headcount by 5 500 excluding strategic additions.
We've put in place the fundamental building blocks necessary to overcome our patent expirations and return to growth.
Now today I'd like to discuss for the first time at a high level our outlook for our financial performance in years beyond 2014.
Hopefully this will provide you with insight into how we view our prospects and how we intend to manage our business.
At the highest level we anticipate a return to revenue and income growth post 2014 fueled in large part by our pipeline.
This growth combined with leveraging our existing infrastructure and managing cost should lead to expanding margins.
More specifically post 2014 we expect to return to levels of R&amp;D spend as a percent of revenue that are more consistent with our historical averages in the 18% to 20% range.
Just as we don't intend to reduce our investment in R&amp;D due to temporary reductions of revenue from patent expirations we will not increase our investment in R&amp;D at the same pace as revenue as we return to growth post 2014.
We believe this will be sufficient to support our innovation-based strategy.
For SG&amp;A it's reasonable to expect that within a few years post 2014 we'll move more in line with the industry averages in the range of 28% to 30% of revenue.
We've made important investments in commercial infrastructure that we intend to leverage in the coming years.
For example we've expanded the commercial footprint of our diabetes business.
With the anticipated launch of some or all of our 4 Phase III diabetes molecules we'll be able to leverage this investment to expand margins.
We've made similar infrastructure investments in Japan China and Elanco that we also expect to leverage to drive future revenue growth and expand margins.
Now this expected expansion will be helped by anticipated revenue growth.
However I want to emphasize that expense management will play a significant role and that we aren't waiting until 2014 or 2015 to take action.
As we've discussed in the past in our manufacturing operations we're in the midst of implementing a process technology agenda to standardize along common platforms for insulins and devices.
By 2017 and without building a new manufacturing plant we expect to double capacity to meet projected demands of our entire range of insulins while reducing capital requirements reducing unit cost and improving insulin gross margin by several percentage points.
On the commercial side of our business we're taking steps in Europe to respond to difficult market conditions for branded pharmaceuticals to better position Lilly to successfully market our future product portfolio and to optimize future profitability across the continent.
While Europe will continue to be an important market for Lilly we expect it to decline in value driven by the difficult macroeconomic environment faster generic erosion than in the past and excessive hurdles for reimbursement and access of new products.
In the coming years we also expect our product portfolio to become more focused on specialty care products than on primary care products.
To respond to this external environment and to our evolving portfolio we're streamlining certain European operations.
Specifically we're simplifying the organization from 12 to 5 geographic hubs giving us critical mass and delivering efficiencies across markets.
In addition we'll organize marketing medical and other commercial support functions into Pan-European therapeutic communities.
These changes will create a more focused organization one able to respond effectively to customer needs.
We anticipate that these changes will deliver substantial savings in the coming years.
Now to sum up we continue to execute the plan we first outlined for you in December of 2009.
We've been hitting many of our mileposts and remaining on track to meet or exceed our financial targets and we're approaching these next 2 years with the same diligence focus and commitment as the past 2 years.
When we prepared for the Zyprexa patent expiration we took actions early to position Lilly to overcome the challenge posed by the loss of revenue and income just when we needed to fund our maturing pipeline.
We're now applying the same disciplined approach as we prepare for the Cymbalta patent expiration in the U.S.
at the end of 2013 and for our return to growth and expanding margins post 2014.
With more than 30 assets in Phase II and Phase III we have tremendous opportunities ahead of us and we're determined to make the most of them.
In closing I want to again recognize my Lilly colleagues for their resolve in facing head on the challenge of the Zyprexa patent expiration.
They've continued to deliver solid financial results in those areas of our business not affected by patent expirations and have been diligently executing our strategy to replenish and advance our pipeline to drive growth in our on-patent brands and in Elanco Japan and emerging markets and to drive productivity gains across all areas of our business.
The progress that we've made to date positions us to meet or exceed our midterm financial minimum goals and has given our management team and board the confidence to resume our share repurchase program.
As I outlined we expect the margin compression caused by our patent expirations to be temporary.
Post 2014 we anticipate revenue growth and expense management to expand margins.
We remain committed to our innovation-based strategy and we believe it is the best strategy to create value for shareholders.
Over the next 18 months we'll generate a significant amount of clinical data that will help you better gauge our longer-term growth potential.
We'll keep you updated on our progress.
This concludes our prepared remarks and now we'll take your questions.
Operator first caller please.
[Operator Instructions] So our first question will come from the line of Tony Butler with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Derica you did make a comment about implementation and standardization for insulins and devices that would actually double capacity for insulin.
I wonder if you could flush that out more.
And does that actually imply or does that also include that the basal insulin needs to be on the market in order for gross margins to improve? And then my second question which is totally separate is you had previously given guidance that Elanco profit would double in YZ.
And I wondered if you could actually flush that out a little bit.
What -- I mean I understand the word double but can you give us some idea of the magnitude of -- in absolute numbers? Tony this is Phil.
Since we do have Enrique Conterno with us we'll actually have him address your first question on the insulin manufacturing agenda and then come back to Derica for the Elanco profit expansion.
Tony yes it does include the full range of insulin.
So as we think about our manufacturing plant they will have the capability of being able to make the full range of insulin that we have available today and the ones that we plan to make available in the future.
As you can appreciate this provides significant flexibility for us.
And as Derica said we will be able to support twice the current demand that we have with the same manufacturing footprint that we have today.
Tony this is Derica.
In regards to Elanco yes we still expect to double the size of our Elanco business over this YZ time period this 4- to 5-year period.
And at the same time we're also expanding margins.
So if you were to look we have gone from about 18% to about 25% profit margins in our Elanco business over this time frame as well.
So they're performing quite well.
From ISI we'll go to the line of Mark Schanberg (sic) [Schoenebaum].
Research Division</strong> It's Mark Schoenebaum.
I had one question perhaps for Derica and that is I think a question on a lot of people's minds.
The guidance is predicated on both revenue growth post 2014 as well as expense management and so I guess the question on everyone's mind including mine is what if your revenue doesn't grow or certainly doesn't grow very much? Should the investor community still expect that you'll be able to honor your new R&amp;D and SG&amp;A expense guidance? And then sort of the partner question I suppose is is it realistic to expect that you could if needed reduce R&amp;D and SG&amp;A dollars not just the percent of sales? And then finally just a quick one you've said that you expect your Phase III pipeline to -- the probability of success to be in near industry averages.
I was wondering what your data show the industry average probability of success is? Okay Mark this is Derica.
Let me try to answer at least 2 of your first 3 questions.
First of all in regards to our expense management and our margin expansion we are absolutely committed to prudently managing our business.
And definitely obviously today we're factoring in revenue growth coming out of the 2014 time period as well as continued prudent expense management.
One could argue that if we are in a scenario where our pipeline is not successful then that will call for even more prudent management of our expenses.
So we're still committed to the longer-term outlook that we shared with you all here today and we believe it is absolutely achievable.
In regards to your question around are we able to reduce SG&amp;A or R&amp;D spend in absolute dollars I think that will be one thing that we'll have to see how it plays out.
Obviously as we go through and see how the pipeline matures especially given some of the therapy areas we're in based upon where we have success and where we have failure will be a key determinant in terms of what our commercial footprint looks like.
So if we find that for example neuroscience if we're not successful there then one could argue do we still need the neuroscience footprint that we have today? So we'll have to see how this plays out.
But obviously we're prepared to be nimble and agile and respond to the outcomes of our pipeline.
I'm not sure I understand your last question to be honest in regards to the probability of success of the pipeline versus industry averages.
I think when we were talking about returning the industry averages in our call text we were talking about returning for SG&amp;A to more be in line with industry averages.
And for our R&amp;D spend as a percent of revenue we said we'll return back closer to our levels of historical averages of the 18% to 20% range.
Yes if I can go ahead and add and this is Phil.
We have had some comments in the past where we cited some of the industry benchmarking data that indicate that in past years you would have seen something like 70% to 80% probably as a more likely success rate for Phase III compounds.
That maybe I think what  [indiscernible] was referring to.
We'll go to the line of Tim Anderson with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> On your long-term guidance on the spend element post 2014 to give those aspirational percentages you obviously have to have a revenue forecast.
And any chance you would be willing to bracket your assumptions for revenue growth in that post-2014 period? Also what's embedded in that guidance for Alimta exclusivity? And then on solanezumab and upcoming data release if you see hints of efficacy that support the beta-amyloid hypothesis but those data are not good enough for approval can you say whether you'd likely push solanezumab into the next round of clinical trials or whether you'd more likely move on to other approaches like BACE inhibition? Tim this is Derica.
Let me take your first question regarding post 2014 in revenue.
We're not prepared to share our revenue forecast at this time frame.
Obviously as we continue to work through YZ we'll have an opportunity to reengage in that particular specific aspect of our business going forward.
But I did want to get out there today in terms of what the profile of Lilly should look like in terms of our business longer term.
That should begin to hopefully give you guys greater insight as to how we look to manage our business.
Tim on the Alimta exclusivity currently we have a compound patent that with the pediatric exclusivity and other provisions would expire in January of 2017.
We believe we have valid IP that we intend to pursue and uphold for the method-of-use patent that would expire in 2022.
So really any outcome that would be negative on that method of use patent really wouldn't come into play until that 2017 time frame.
And then in terms of the strategy for solanezumab data obviously if we do as you're mentioning fall short of hitting the primary endpoints clearly we'll look to see if there are any strong signals and subpopulations.
There's been some talk about this in prior investment meetings we've had.
Obviously we'd want to discuss that with the agency if we would see such results.
At this point it would be premature to speculate on whether or not that would require or whether or not we would pursue additional clinical studies with solanezumab.
As you mentioned we do have a BACE compound that just started Phase II very encouraged by the data we've seen today with that compound and excited to take that forward into development.
From Leerink Swann we'll go to the line of Seamus Fernandez.
Research Division</strong> So just a couple of quick questions.
The performance in the diabetes portfolio this quarter can you just kind of comment on again the sort of slowing script trends.
Is that entirely due to Caremark in your view or is there some other contributing feature in that regard? And then how would that trajectory how do you see that trajectory changing with a basal insulin? And then separately I think just following up on one of the earlier questions I think Tony's earlier question -- historically you've kind of in some meetings characterized the value of having the expanded manufacturing capability as contributing the value of a blockbuster from an operational perspective.
Can you help us think about that? Should we be thinking about that as kind of a $350 million number relative to a blockbuster in terms of cost avoidance? Thanks Seamus.
We'll have Enrique respond.
Yes.
So when we look at the performance in U.S.
for diabetes which is what I think you are referring to because when we look outside of the U.S.
it is pretty clear that when we look at our mealtime [ph] share performance we have shared trends that are positive whether it's in Europe Japan or emerging markets.
In the U.S.
we specifically lost very -- we -- Humalog got removed from a very large formulary.
And the impact that we see is basically very specific to that.
Of course there's always some spillover effect that we see.
But 80% of the share loss can be directly attributed to basically lines [ph]  That are covered by the large formulary.
If we were to look outside of that specific segment for example we've talked in the past about our hospital share.
Our hospital share continues to go up and continues to increase with the introduction of the [indiscernible].
The dynamics of our performance outside of this one event continue to be very consistent.
I think it's important to emphasize that we are very much looking at protecting the gross margin that we have when it comes to our insulin business.
Clearly we are concerned about single-source type deals and this dynamic that is happening in the marketplace.
But we're monitoring this very very closely.
At the end of the day we need to make sure that patients are going to be in Lilly insulin products.
Clearly when we look at the future portfolio additional critical mass and starting patients on basal insulin will make us more competitive.
We know that patients start insulin on a basal product.
So to the extent that that is Lilly insulin that will make us even more competitive when we're able to have that.
As far as the impact the financial impact from manufacturing we have characterized this.
We should be thinking about a gross margin expansion of several percentage points whenever we look at our overall insulin business.
So this is very significant but it's going to take time for this to materialize.
One of the things Seamus that I'd have you consider on the overall financial benefit of this manufacturing technical agenda -- as Enrique mentioned we expect to expand margins by several percentage points.
To put that into the context we had a $3.5 billion insulins business last year and we see that business expanding pretty considerably over time.
And the other thing that contributes very favorably to the overall financial impact is significant capital avoidance.
When we were talking about this having the essential value of a blockbuster it was the combination of the 2 things -- the reduced costs over time and then significant capital avoidance.
Just to put that into perspective to put in a new insulin plant you're talking multiple hundreds of millions of dollars for that similar kinds of investment somewhat smaller on the fill-finish side.
To the line of Catherine Arnold from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I have a question about Alzheimer's and then I wanted to talk to you about evacetrapib.
On Alzheimer's could you just share if you know the percentage of patients in EXPEDITION that were ApoE4 carriers and is it in line with the generally quoted sort of incidence of 60%? And does the  [indiscernible] study change your probability of success in any way? And then on the evacetrapib is there a possibility of partnership for this molecule given the large-scale work and expense? And is that a gating factor before starting Phase III? How does it impact your R&amp;D guidance for the longer term? Great Catherine this is Phil.
I'll take your first one on Alzheimer's and I'll have Dave Ricks take your second question on evacetrapib.
So we have not had any kind of a presentation or publication of baseline characteristics of the patients in the solanezumab studies.
The one piece that we have commented on over time is that in the general population there would be roughly about 1/3 mild 1/3 moderate 1/3 severe.
If you recall our trials are just in the mild-to-moderate patient population and we have said that there is a larger percentage of the mild patients as opposed to moderate.
But we've not presented other baseline characteristics to date including the percentage of ApoE4 carrier versus non-carrier.
And then Dave on the evacetrapib question? Sure.
Catherine we remain very excited about this program based on the data we released at AHA last year which shows a compelling benefit on both HDL and LDL.
As mentioned earlier we are hoping to start this program very soon.
Without commenting specifically on evacetrapib I can say broadly we always look at our options to maximize the molecule share risk and bring them forward through the Phase III process with partners or without.
And I think that's certainly an option on this program as well as others but we have made no specific determinations at this time.
From Cowen we'll go to the line of Steve Scala.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First apologies if I misunderstood but the post-2014 guidance to what years does it apply? It sounds like it does not contemplate what happens in 2017 when Alimta's substance patent expires.
And the second question is back on Alzheimer's disease Merck has said its beta-secretase inhibitor lowers CSF Abeta by more than 90% than a once-daily oral formulation based on a very early study.
Can you characterize how yours might compare? Steve we'll have Derica take the financial question and then Jan respond on the base inhibitor.
Steve this is Derica.
In regards to the post 2014 we haven't given a specific time frame but you got to think that we're talking about in that '15 '16 '17 time frame as being in the range of years when we should be able to move back into those levels of profitability.
Jan? Yes we recently communicated as you heard that our new beta-secretase oral inhibitor has entered Phase II.
Some data were recently communicated about the effects of this agent on healthy volunteers.
And the reduction we reported at the 35-milligram dose was around 60% reduction in the cerebrospinal fluid A-beta.
It's not really known currently how much you need to reduce A-beta to have a significant potential effect.
In the paper about the mutation in APP at the close to the beta cleavage side which then has protective components against Alzheimer dementia and also other aging dementia the tentative reduction that this mutation caused was around 40% reduction.
That had then the protective effect.
Then realizing of course that that is present during the whole lifetime while we then are trying to influence this process by treating people later in life.
So our molecule is very potent and we are very encouraged of what we have seen so far.
We'll go to the line of Marc Goodman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Derica in the past you've talked about that extra $1 billion of cost savings that you guys were going to get out of the business.
And I was curious your comments about Europe is this kind of wrapped up in it or is this an additional type of effort to bring cost down because of European austerity that's really kind of kicked in so much over the past 6 to 12 months? And is there anyway you can help quantify like how much you're talking about taking out of Europe if it is additional? And will we see it in the 2013 numbers or when will we start to see that kind of kick in? Second question is just from the tofacitinib panel I was wondering if there was anything that happened or any learnings that you'll have that you can comment on relative to your product.
And then in emerging markets can you talk about any key launches that will occur whether it's the rest of the year or over the next year in 2013 that will drive emerging markets once again? Mark we'll have Derica start off and then go over to Jan for the tofa question.
And then we'll congregate here and see who can answer your question on the emerging markets piece.
Derica? Mark in regards to Europe just to remind everyone we said that we would take out the $1 billion by the end of '11.
And we more than exceeded that goal.
So the actions we're currently talking about in Europe are more in response to the evolving environment and portfolio as we've described it.
So as we see the austerity measures in Europe and how that market is evolving as well as when we look at our own portfolio and if it we'd be progressing more towards a specialty-focused portfolio rather than a broad primary care portfolio we see the changes that Dave and his team have outlined as being essential and mitigating those kinds of risk and addressing those kinds of challenges.
In regards to quantification we haven't put any specific numbers out there at this time.
And real quick on that piece the $1 billion that I think you may be referring to Marc you may be referring to a slide Derica presented last June.
We talked about $1 billion of operating improvement.
That was actually through '05 to '10.
The other $1 billion that was talked about on the call today was the $1 billion that we had talked about removing from our 2011 cost structure so this would not have been contemplated in that 2011 cost basis.
This is an action now that we're talking about in '12 would impact by '13 and beyond.
Jan? We are very keen to apply the comments from the advisory committee for then the Pfizer JAK inhibitor tofacitinib.
The key learnings were first of all that the advisory committee felt that this could be a major advance as a class of drugs then as new oral disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs actually than the first one in 10 years.
The second thing is that different JAK inhibitors may have different safety profiles in particular.
And we know that the Pfizer molecule is more a pan-JAK inhibitor including JAK3 whilst our molecule is selective for JAK1/JAK2.
And thirdly we need now to design the right Phase III trials to then exploit these type of reasonings both regarding efficacy and safety.
And as communicated earlier we anticipate starting those trials before the end of this year or early next year.
And Marc in terms of the emerging market launches for sure we'll have continued rollouts of Trajenta.
And then I'll follow up off-line with our Emerging Markets business to see if we're missing any major line extensions that can be rolled out during this time frame as well.
From JPMorgan we'll go to the line of Chris Schott.
Research Division</strong> First question I guess for Derica and then very much appreciate those long-term margin targets.
On those targets though what gives you the confidence in providing these updates versus just your prior floor estimates? Is this based on some of the pipeline data we've seen so far this year or as you're thinking of all of done [ph] your expense base? And then the second question is shifting over to the insulin franchise can you just elaborate a little bit more on the feedback you've had on the Caremark formulary change either from patients or employers using that Caremark formulary? Just I guess on some of the questions really are you getting any sense that other plans are considering moving maybe to a single insulin for their formularies as well? Great Chris.
We'll have Derica and Enrique respond respectively.
Chris this is Derica.
It's a great question.
What gives us the confidence is the performance the we're seeing to date.
The goals that we outlined wasn't just those minimum financial performance but we also talked as a part about the -- how we would progress our pipeline.
We talked about how would we address our cost structures as we were managing through YZ.
And I can sit here today and say along many of those elements we are actually achieving the mileposts the we laid out.
So we absolutely feel confident about staying above the $20 billion in revenue.
We took out the additional $1 billion by the end of '11 in our cost structure.
And if you look at our pipeline we have 12 assets in Phase III.
More importantly we also have a Phase II pipeline that's positioned to sustain that same type of output going forward.
So when we look at each of the elements of our business in aggregate we're seeing the pieces of the puzzle come together.
And that's also what gave us the confidence even when we talked about capital allocation that we felt comfortable both management and the board and beginning to return some of our excess capital back to shareholders through the resumption of our share repurchase program.
So we feel very good about where we are.
Enrique? Without commenting about any specific formulary.
We do see significant disruption at the patient level.
Clearly diabetes is a complex disease.
And while some may think that there is some sort of savings when it comes to the medicine that can be passed to employers there are significant hidden costs -- and we're planning to study this very very carefully -- that go beyond the medicine when it comes to the treatment of diabetes.
So it is difficult to say where the trends will go.
But long term the more that these get studied in particular when it comes to patients in late-stage diabetes utilizing insulin we will see that the other costs completely overburden any type of savings that people believe they may have in the medicine.
From Bank of America we'll go to the line of Greg Gilbert.
Research Division</strong> I have a few.
First on Alimta.
It was good to see the positive Markman ruling.
But can you discuss the patent and exclusivity picture for Alimta in key non-U.S.
markets and whether anything's changed there from a ruling standpoint? Second is on Effient.
It seems that you clearly have a share of voice [ph] opportunity would with Plavix going generic.
Can you comment on how access and cost of access is shaping up for next year? And lastly for Derica you touched on this in your prior answer.
I wanted to know if you could talk about the board and management discussion around resuming the share repurchase and whether there's been a change in how you view that particular mechanism even beyond the current authorization that's left? We'll have Ilissa handle your first question on the Alimta Markman hearing and then Dave Ricks for Effient and then to Derica for share repurchase.
Ilissa? Yes Greg as we mentioned earlier in the U.S.
we had the Markman hearing and had a positive ruling in Lilly's favor and we are waiting for a trial date to be set.
In Europe a similar patent has been challenged and a ruling was also issued in Lilly's favor in the first instance.
This ruling has been appealed but no date has been set yet for the appeal.
There was another company that submitted third-party observations in this pending appeal but we're still in the very early stages of that.
And the patent date in Europe is slightly different in the U.S.
That would go into 2020.
On Effient Greg as we see in the Q2 results we reported very strong sales growth for this product both in Europe and the U.S.
I think your question is really referring to the Plavix exclusivity and clearly Bristol and Sanofi pulling out of that.
We don't see that as a trend changer in any case for Effient.
Effient is used in the cath labs with very sick patients.
And the choice-making there really is driven by the clinical benefits.
And as you know from the TRITON-TIMI 38 study we've got a compelling advantage we believe over Plavix generic or branded in patients who -- particularly those with diabetes with high-risk cardiovascular disease and in the STEMI population.
That's where we're driving share and were seeing that convert into nice sales growth across the globe.
Derica? Greg quite honestly our capital allocation strategy actually hasn't changed.
We've always been very clear that in regards to utilization of our capital our first protocol was making sure we were properly investing and resourcing the internal opportunities that we had specifically the pipeline.
Our second protocol was then to pursue opportunistic business development opportunities that were out there that we felt could compliment our existing footprint.
In this case bring in revenue and cash generating opportunities or augment our pipeline.
And then at the end of that if we had excess capital we would look to return that to shareholders.
We believe that we've -- we're accomplishing the first 2.
We feel very good about where we are with R&amp;D and our resourcing.
As it relates to business development you've seen the type of deals we've been active in.
We continue to look for in-licensing opportunities.
We believe we can still continue to do that while at the same time beginning to return some of our excess capital back to shareholders being the resumption of the share repurchase program throughout the end of this year.
And obviously to going beyond this year it will be a continual discussion we'll have with our board around the timing and the amount of any potential future share repurchase activity.
Since we are a couple of minutes past the top of the hour we'll go ahead and close the call here.
We do hope you found some of the additional commentary that was provided on the post-2014 time frame helpful.
We do recognize there are a few of you still left in queue.
The IR team will get back to you very shortly and our team will remain available during the rest of the day for any other questions you may have post today's call.
Thank you very much for your interest in Lilly and for spending time with us today.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 11:00 a.m.
Eastern today through August 1 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive replay system at anytime by dialing either 1 (800) 475-6701 or 1 (320) 365-3844 and entering the access code 253309.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Q3 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions]  We do remind you today's call is being recorded.
Your host and speaker Vice President of Investor Relations Phil Johnson.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us for Eli Lilly &amp; Company's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Phil Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me this morning are John Lechleiter our Chairman President and CEO; Derica Rice our Chief Financial Officer; Dr.
Jan Lundberg our President of Lilly Research Laboratories; Enrique Conterno President of our Diabetes business; and Ilissa Rassner and Travis Coy from the Investor Relations team.
During this conference call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on Slide 3 and those outlined in our latest Forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
We're pleased with our financial performance in the third quarter of 2012.
In the face of significant reductions in revenue and earnings due to the Zyprexa patent expiration we prudently controlled expenses and remain on track to meet our 2012 non-GAAP financial guidance and to meet or exceed our financial minimum goals through 2014.
In addition we continue to advance our pipeline and have begun to produce and communicate important data on key assets.
Let's begin today's call with a review of events that have taken place since our Q2 earnings call in late July.
We've had a flurry of regulatory and clinical activity.
On the regulatory front we received FDA approval for a new use of Alimta in the continuation maintenance setting for advanced nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer and for Tradjenta for use as add-on therapy to insulin in adults with type 2 diabetes.
Strattera was approved in Japan for adult ADHD.
While in Europe the CHMP issued 3 positive opinions recommending approval of Cialis for once daily use for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia or BPH; Trajenta for use as add-on therapy to insulin and adults with type 2 diabetes; and Amyvid as a diagnostic tool for imaging beta-amyloid neuritic plaque density in patients with cognitive impairment who are being evaluated for Alzheimer's disease and other causes of cognitive impairment.
Turning to clinical news we had multiple disclosures.
We announced the decision to stop ongoing Phase III studies investigating pomaglumetad methionil also known as mGlu2/3 for the treatment of patients suffering from schizophrenia.
For Effient along with our partner Daiichi Sankyo we disclosed data at ESC from the TRILOGY study a Phase III trial in patients who are managed medically without an artery-opening procedure.
The study did not demonstrate that prasugrel was superior to clopidogrel in reducing cardiovascular events in these patients.
We also announced that the Phase III POINTBREAK trial comparing Alimta in combination with Avastin to Avastin alone did not meet its primary endpoint of improved overall survival for patients with nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer.
We also disclosed encouraging data on 3 of our late-stage molecules.
Specifically we announced both top line and detailed results of the Phase III solanezumab EXPEDITION studies Lilly's analysis showed primary endpoints both cognitive and functional were not met in the 2 Phase III EXPEDITION trials in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.
However a prespecified secondary analysis of pooled data across both trials showed a 34% reduction of cognitive decline in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease.
We also saw a trend toward a reduction in functional decline in this mild patient population.
The next steps for solanezumab will be determined after discussions with regulators.
We announced that the REGARD trial a Phase III study of ramucirumab as second-line monotherapy in patients with metastatic gastric cancer met its primary endpoint of improved overall survival and also showed prolonged progression-free survival.
This is encouraging data ramucirumab uses monotherapy in a difficult-to-treat disease.
We intend to discuss these data with regulatory authorities and expect to present detailed data at upcoming scientific meetings.
Finally for dulaglutide we announced that the primary endpoints related to reduction in HbA1c were met in the Phase III AWARD-1 AWARD-3 and AWARD-5 studies in patients with type 2 diabetes.
Having met the primary endpoints superiority for HbA1c was examined and both doses of dulaglutide 0.75 milligrams and 1.5 milligrams demonstrated statistically superior reduction in HbA1c from baseline compared to exenatide twice-daily injection at 26 weeks in AWARD-1 metformin at 26 weeks in AWARD-3 and sitagliptin at 52 weeks in AWARD-5.
In addition to these data over the next 12 to 18 months we will generate Phase III data on multiple assets and indications.
These data will provide the investment community with greater clarity on our future growth prospects.
The data on solanezumab ramucirumab and dulaglutide reaffirmed our confidence in and commitment to our innovation-based strategy.
Finally there were 2 other noteworthy events since the Q2 earnings call.
Following the completion of its acquisition by Bristol-Myers Squibb Amylin paid Lilly $1.259 billion to fulfill its exenatide revenue-sharing obligation.
Amylin also paid off $165 million loan plus accrued interest.
And the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed a prior district court ruling for the company's compound patent for Alimta is valid.
The compound patent provides protection for Alimta in the U.S.
through January of 2017.
In addition we have a concomitant nutritional use supplement patent expiring in 2022 that is also the subject of litigation.
Now let's discuss our financial performance for the quarter.
As we've done on previous calls we'll focus our comments on the non-GAAP results which we believe provide insights into the underlying trends in our business.
This view excludes certain items such as restructuring charges asset impairments and other special charges.
Based on recent investor and analyst questions I should point out that our non-GAAP results include ongoing costs such as amortization and stock-based compensation.
On Slide 7 you can see that revenue this quarter was $5.4 billion or 11% below Q3 last year.
This decrease in revenue was due to the loss of patent exclusivity for Zyprexa in most major markets outside of Japan partially offset by growth from several other products including double-digit growth in the U.S.
for Alimta Cialis Cymbalta and our animal health products and in both the U.S.
and international markets for Effient and Forteo.
This quarter excluding Zyprexa outside of Japan the rest of our worldwide revenue grew 2%.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue decreased 30 basis points from 78.2% to 77.9%.
Lower Zyprexa sales had a significant negative effect on the gross margin percent.
However this is largely offset by the impact of foreign exchange rates on international inventories sold that increased cost of sales in Q3 last year but reduced cost of sales in Q3 this year.
Excluding this FX effect from both 2011 and 2012 gross margin as a percent of revenue declined by 3.6 percentage points from 80% in Q3 2011 to 76.4% in Q3 2012.
In today's slide deck you'll find a supplementary slide providing our gross margin percent for the last 10 quarters with and without this FX effect.
Moving down the income statement this quarter's total operating expense defined as the sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A declined 3%.
This reflects continued discipline in managing our operating expenses while investing in our pipeline to drive future growth.
Specifically this 3% decline is comprised of an 8% reduction in marketing selling and administrative expenses and 5% growth in R&amp;D expenses.
The reduction in marketing selling and administrative expenses was driven by lower marketing expenses and to a lesser extent by lower selling expenses.
The growth in R&amp;D expenses was largely driven by higher late-stage clinical trial costs.
In addition this quarter's R&amp;D expense included the charge of approximately $20 million for estimated future period costs related to the termination of the pomaglumetad methionil Phase III program.
Other income and deductions improved from a net deduction of $83 million in the third quarter of 2011 to a net income of $1 million this year.
This improvement is largely due to the recognition in this year's quarter of the gain on our sale of Amylin stock as well as a charge taken in Q3 last year due to a partial write-down in the IP R&amp;D value of Amyvid.
Our tax rate was 22.1% an increase of 4.2 percentage points from Q3 2011 primarily due to the recognition in Q3 2011 of a discrete tax benefit resulting from resolution of the company's 2007 IRS tax audit and the negative effect in 2012 of the expiration of the R&amp;D tax credit at the end of 2011.
At the bottom line our non-GAAP EPS decreased 30% to $0.79.
In summary our Q3 financial results reflect Zyprexa patent expirations outside of Japan.
At the same time we've continued to drive revenue growth for a number of products and to prudently manage expenses in the rest of our business putting us on solid financial footing going forward.
As we've discussed in past calls we'll rigorously prioritize investments to achieve our midterm financial targets and position the company to return to growth post 2014.
Slide 8 shows our reported income statement while Slide 9 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS.
As you can see for non-GAAP results we excluded pretax income of $788 million or $0.43 per share recognized in Q3 2012 as a result of the early payment by Amylin of the exenatide revenue-sharing obligation.
So this income is related to U.S.
exenatide rights.
Currently we expect to recognize income of approximately $490 million in early 2013 contingent upon transfer of exenatide commercial rights outside the U.S.
We expect to exclude this future income from our non-GAAP results.
Additional details about our reported earnings are available in today's earnings press release.
Now I'll turn the call over to Travis.
Thanks Phil.
As you can see on Slide 10 the total revenue decline of 11% for the quarter shown in the yellow bar on the middle of the page was driven by a negative volume impact of 9% and a negative foreign exchange impact of 3% partially offset by a favorable price impact of 1%.
By geography you'll notice that U.S.
volume decreased 17%.
This was due to Zyprexa sales erosion.
Excluding olanzapine from both 2011 and 2012 volume in the rest of our U.S.
business was up about 1%.
Similarly in Europe the volume decline of 12% was due to the Zyprexa patent expiration.
Excluding Zyprexa from both 2011 and 2012 volume growth for the rest of our European products was about 2.5%.
Please note that the 7% price decline in Europe is not fully reflective of government pricing actions.
It is also influenced by the loss of Zyprexa exclusivity.
Excluding Zyprexa European price declined 4%.
Turning to Japan.
Robust volume growth of 15% was driven primarily by Forteo Alimta and Zyprexa.
The negative 9% price impact reflects the biannual price decreases that took effect earlier this year primarily affecting Alimta and Gemzar.
Within the Rest of World line I'd highlight continued strong growth in China  where sales increased 20% this quarter driven by multiple products most notably Humalog Humulin Zyprexa and Cialis.
More broadly Emerging Markets sales declined 6% driven by a 6% decline from weaker foreign currencies.
Excluding FX Emerging Markets revenue was flat despite a significant impact of generics particularly in Brazil and Mexico.
As we discussed when providing guidance in early January in 2012 we expect generics to negatively affect our Emerging Market sales by about $250 million or roughly 10% of 2011 Emerging Markets sales.
Excluding both FX and the effect of generics in Q3 our Emerging Markets business would have grown 13%.
Elanco Animal Health delivered double-digit volume growth of 10%.
Overall Animal Health sales growth of 6% was smaller than in prior quarters due to a number of factors including annualization of revenue from acquisitions stocking of Trifexis in prior quarters that did not recur in Q3 and weak September food animal sales.
It's unclear if this was a temporary phenomenon or a signal of weakening demand.
Elanco continues to outperform the broader animal health market and is poised to delivered double-digit income growth during the YZ years and beyond.
Finally the 19% decrease in collaboration and other revenue is due to the transfer of U.S.
exenatide rights to Amylin.
Excluding exenatide collaboration and other revenue grew 19% in the quarter.
Slide 11 shows the year-on-year growth of select line items of our non-GAAP income statement with and without the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates.
As was the case last quarter FX contributed positively to EPS growth in Q3 despite weaker foreign currencies.
While FX did have a negative effect on revenue this was more than offset by the positive effect of FX on operating expenses and especially on international inventories sold which flows through cost of sales.
You can see that FX reduced revenue growth by 3 percentage points in Q3 while it reduced operating expense growth by 2 percentage points.
In contrast to these more modest movements due to FX you can also see that cost of sales decreased 10% including FX but increased 8% excluding FX.
In part the FX effect is due to weaker foreign currencies reducing the U.S.
dollar value of O-U.S.
manufacturing expense.
However the vast majority of the FX effect is from the impact of foreign exchange on international inventories sold.
Specifically in Q3 of last year this FX effect substantially increased cost of goods sold while this year it substantially decreased cost of goods sold.
As a result at the bottom line you can see that the Q3 EPS declined 30% including FX and 37% excluding FX.
For your information on Slide 12 we provided the year-on-year growth of select line items of our reported income statement with and without the effect of foreign exchange rates.
Next I'll provide a brief pipeline update before turning the call over to Derica.
Slide 13 shows our pipeline as of October 17.
Changes since our last earnings call are highlighted with green arrows showing progression and red arrows showing attrition.
You'll see that we began Phase III testing of our once-daily oral CETP inhibitor Evacetrapib being studied for the treatment of high-risk vascular disease.
Our pivotal trial called ACCELERATE began earlier this month.
It's slated to enroll approximately 11 000 patients and could complete in late 2015.
In addition we began Phase II testing of a monoclonal antibody for potential use in migraine prevention and began Phase I testing of 3 potential medicines for insomnia and cancer.
Finally as Phil mentioned we terminated Phase III development of pomaglumetad methionil.
We also terminated 1 Phase II asset and 3 Phase I assets.
We continue to believe that our robust pipeline including 12 potential new medicines in Phase III testing spanning oncology diabetes cardiovascular neuroscience and autoimmune diseases positions us well for growth post 2014.
Our recent data readouts reinforce our confidence in the potential of our pipeline.
Now I'll turn the call over to Derica to cover some of the key events for 2012 our financial guidance and some closing comments before we open the call for Q&amp;A.
Derica? Thanks Travis.
First I'll provide a progress update on key events we've highlighted for 2012.
Now as illustrated here the checkmarks show what we've achieved so far this year.
We're pleased with the number of green check marks indicating positive progress and outcomes.
Now since the second quarter earnings call we received U.S.
approval of the Alimta continuation maintenance indication we started Phase III development of Evacetrapib in high-risk vascular disease we've terminated Phase III development of mGlu2/3.
And we announced results of a number of Phase III clinical trials including solanezumab in Alzheimer's disease Effient in ACS medical management the Alimta POINTBREAK trial the REGARD trial of ramucirumab in second-line gastric cancer and top line results of 3 of the Phase III trials for dulaglutide.
I'd also highlight that later this year we plan to begin Phase III trials for baricitinib our oral JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor for rheumatoid arthritis which we have in partnership with Incyte.
In addition we plan to disclose 24-week data from the Phase IIb trial of baricitinib at ACR next month.
Along with Incyte we will also host an on-site investor event to review the data.
Now as Phil mentioned earlier we are pleased with the progress we continue to make in advancing our pipeline and we look forward to continuing this momentum and sharing both top line and detailed results with the scientific and investment communities.
Turning to our 2012 financial guidance.
Our continued solid performance puts us on track to meet our previously issued revenue and non-GAAP EPS guidance.
You will see that we have made updates to a couple of line items primarily to reflect the income recognized in Q3 related to accelerated repayments of the exenatide revenue-sharing obligation.
Please note that our GAAP guidance does not assume any additional income as recognized during 2012 related to the exenatide revenue-sharing obligation.
As mentioned earlier we do expect to recognize income of approximately $490 million in early 2013 which is contingent upon transfer of exenatide commercial rights outside of the U.S.
Moving to the individual line items.
We still expect revenue to be between $21.8 billion and $22.8 billion; gross margin as a percent of revenue to be approximately 78%; marketing selling and administrative expenses to be between $7.3 billion and $7.7 billion; and R&amp;D expenses to be between $5 billion and $5.3 billion.
On a non-GAAP basis OID is now expected to be in the range of a net deduction of $75 million to $150 million.
Due to the early payment of the exenatide revenue-sharing obligation OID on a GAAP basis is now expected to be in the range of a net gain between $640 million and $715 million.
The non-GAAP tax rate is still expected to be approximately 21% and the GAAP tax rate is expected to be approximately 23.5% reflecting the income booked this quarter from Amylin's early payment of the exenatide revenue-sharing obligation.
Both assumed R&amp;D tax credit is passed before year-end and made retroactive to January 1.
Should this not occur our full year tax rates would be higher and our full year EPS would be about $0.07 to $0.08 lower.
We still expect non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $3.30 to $3.40 per share.
GAAP EPS is now expected to be in the range of $3.68 to $3.78 per share.
Capital expenditures are still expected to be roughly $800 million.
Also during the fourth quarter we intend to repurchase the remaining $420 million of Lilly shares to complete our previously authorized share repurchase program.
Slide 16 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS for 2011 and the associated growth rates from these numbers to our 2012 guidance.
In closing I want to again recognize all my Lilly colleagues for their resolve in addressing this challenging period.
They've continued to execute our strategy of advancing our pipeline of driving growth and improving productivity.
As a result we continue to deliver solid financial performance and we are on track to meet or exceed our midterm financial minimum goals.
We also believe we're on track to realize the fruits of our innovation strategy.
Now we know this strategy is not without risks but we believe it is the best way to improve human health and to create value for our shareholders.
We're very encouraged by the recent data we've generated for solanezumab ramucirumab and dulaglutide.
And over the next 18 months we'll see even more clinical data that will help you better gauge our longer-term growth potential.
As always we'll keep you updated on our progress.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And now we'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] First question is from the line of Catherine Arnold Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask you a couple of product-related questions.
On the ramu gastric study I understand you have a combination trial that should be reporting on I believe next year.
But I think you had potentially changed your plans it's filing.
You may be filing for the monotherapy trial that you just press released.
Could you confirm what your filing strategy is for gastric? And then I also wanted to ask you in terms of your biosimilar Lantus program do you -- can you confirm that you have one or both of those studies and how -- what are your plans are for releasing that data and if it met your expectations? And if I could just throw one more in on baricitinib you didn't identify that going into Phase III but obviously the Phase II data on ACR are actually very positive.
I would assume that's just a function of conversations with your partner if you could comment there.
Absolutely.
Catherine thank you for the questions.
I'll go ahead and handle your first on the filing strategy for ramucirumab gastric cancer we'll have Enrique chime in on the trials for our insulin glargine product.
And then Travis do you want to give us an update on [indiscernible] ACR as well on the baricitinib piece.
Okay.
So Catherine as you mentioned the original strategy was to have this gastric monotherapy trial to be a supportive trial for a submission that would include the gastric combination data once it matures in the latter part of next year.
Based on the strength of the data that we've seen in the monotherapy trial we will go ahead and discuss with regulators that data and the possibility of having a standalone application.
And we'll keep you guys appraised of our progress in that regard.
Enrique? Yes thanks for the question.
Regarding the new insulin glargine product we are in the process of reviewing the data.
We're not going to be announcing what the results of those studies are.
But so far I would say that the data looks encouraging.
And with regards to baricitinib Catherine we're obviously very encouraged by the data we saw on safety and efficacy front for baricitinib.
And we do anticipate the Phase III could start imminently.
We look forward to disclosing more of that data at ACR at the investor meeting and also describing in more detail the Phase III development program.
Catherine this is Derica.
We're able to and we do plan to start Phase III for baricitinib in the fourth quarter.
That would also be one quarter earlier that we were anticipating so credit to our development and regulatory group.
That also comes with that a $50 million milestone payment that we would accelerate payment for as well to Incyte that was planned for Q1 that now will be moved into the fourth quarter.
And that is contemplated Catherine in the guidance that we provided as well for the full year.
And the next question is from the line of Greg Gilbert Bank of America Merrill.
Research Division</strong> First by when should we hear from Lilly what next steps are on sola? And then for Enrique a couple diabetes questions.
First on lin and log was there any pressure on ASPs or inventory destocking in the quarter or anything else to comment on that franchise as it seems a bit soft relative to script trends? And lastly the dulaglutide data shared to-date seems to support approvability but does not really help us understand whether the drug will be competitive against the market leader.
Is there anything you can say about that other than just wait and see for the actual proof? Greg we'll have Jan take your first question on sola then I'll go to Enrique for the 2 diabetes questions.
Jan? First we are encouraged by our data on sola showing slowing nano-cognitive decline in the mild Alzheimer population.
What I can say is that we will provide you with an update once we have received the clear guidance from regulatory authorities on the next steps for sola.
Enrique? Greg let me start with the dulaglutide.
We are very encouraged by the results from AWARD-1 3 and 5.
We were able to demonstrate statistically superior in the reduction of hemoglobin A1C from baseline versus all of the comparators in some of the secondary endpoints.
When we think about dulaglutide I think what we basically see is a product that embodies the best attributes of the GLP-1s that we see in the market and the ones that we see coming.
We have a very competitive efficacy on tolerability profile.
It is a once-weekly dosing and a very user-friendly device.
So from our perspective we like what our chances are when it comes to dulaglutide competing in the GLP-1 markets.
Now related to insulin clearly this is a very competitive environment.
In the U.S.
we are -- we were and we are expecting the Q3 and Q4 will be tough compared quarters.
As you may recall we were gaining share in the first half of last year and we lost share in the first half of this year.
That makes Q3 and Q4 difficult from a comparison perspective on a quarter-to-quarter basis versus the previous year.
What we see though is that our share in the U.S.
has been stable flat over the last 3 to 4 months which is encouraging for us.
Outside of the U.S.
we've seen a little bit of a slowdown in the overall insulin market.
We need to watch that a little bit further.
But we continue when it comes to our share trends we continue with our performance which is basically some share gains in both the mealtime insulin market were the relevant market for us as well as human insulin.
It is difficult to say whether there's been destocking at the wholesaler or at the retail level.
We clearly have a little more visibility in the wholesaler level than the retail level.
But if you were to look at some of the script trends I may agree with you.
There might have been some destocking but we don't have full visibility there.
Next question is from the line of David Risinger Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have 3 questions on the pipeline.
First can you just help us understand when we are going to see data on ramu versus a control arm that is on traditional cancer therapies? Second with respect to the insulin glargine comment could you just explain why you're not disclosing that data? It seems like Lilly has been disclosing more pipeline data this year and I just wanted to understand why you're not disclosing that data.
And then third I was hoping that you could provide a framework for the upcoming CTAD conference next Monday on the upcoming disclosures and your plans for communication and discussion of the CDR-Sum of Boxes and biomarkers.
Great Dave.
Thanks for your questions.
We'll have Travis take your question for the ramucirumab data disclosure Enrique for insulin glargine and I'll finalize it with the CTAD disclosures.
Thanks Dave.
I'm assuming you're talking about the combination gastric cancer trial that we have in combination with paclitaxel.
So we'll hope to see that data and complete that trial sometime mid next year.
Enrique? Yes.
It's -- in this particular case it seems what we're looking at is basically establishing comparability versus Lantus.
For competitive reasons what I -- we don't have any plans to basically disclose the different trials.
As we have shared in the past we expect to be filing this product sometime next year.
Great.
And Dave in terms of CTAD as it was at ANA the group that will be presenting the data is the ADCS group.
It will be Dr.
Rochelle Doody again presenting that data that they have analyzed independently.
At this point we don't know the specifics around what might be presented.
You may recall that at the ANA meeting she had mentioned that they'd likely be presenting biomarker data as well as potential other secondary endpoints like the CDR-Sum of Boxes.
In terms of the expectations we did on our call that Monday evening at ANA provide sort of a top line if you will of what we saw with biomarkers.
Now with our slide 18 it was the second bullet point where we had said that in our analysis solanezumab did demonstrate target engagement.
You should be thinking there are things like plasma and CSF Abeta 1-40 and 1-42 measurements.
We did see evidence of an effect on plaque there you'd be looking at things like differential effects on Abeta 1-42 compared to 1-40 as well as the Amyvid scans.
And then we said we did not see evidence of an effect on the cellular pathology of Alzheimer's disease.
I guess a more complicated way of saying that things like phosphotal and your volumetric MRI did not demonstrate treatment effect.
And again more detailed data will be coming at CTAD presented by the ADCS group.
Finally in terms of just data disclosures in general for ramucirumab the gastric monotherapy trial that we had the top line release on it's still unclear exactly what venues that will be presented in but clearly you can imagine that we'd be shooting for things like ASCO mid next year as well as potentially the ASCO GI conference that's early in the year.
And then that gastric -- or combination trial excuse me since it won't read out data internally until we get into the second half of the year it might not have a scientific data disclosure until '14.
Research Division</strong> And on CDR-Sum of Boxes Phil? And Yes CDR-Sum of Boxes again our guess is that there will be more details provided by ADCS.
As you know from prior discussions and the presentation we have we saw great consistency on a number of measurements across both studies cognitive and functional ADAS-Cog11 ADAS-Cog14 and MMSE for functional as well as things like the ADCS-ADL and in particular the IADL for the functional scale.
The CDR-Sum of Boxes did not show a statistically significant result and did not behave as we had anticipated or hoped.
Again we're looking into why that may have occurred and some of the explanations.
And again it may be that the ADCS presents some of their specific data findings and conclusions on that at CTAD.
I would say that in coming months maybe even yet this year but definitely early next year you should expect to see additional presentations and publications likely both by ADCS and Lilly on the solanezumab EXPEDITION trials.
Next question is from the line of Mark Schoenebaum ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I had to hop off for a minute so I apologize if this was asked but I think the next data point for ramucirumab is breast cancer.
I was wondering -- and I think that the primary endpoint in that trial was PFS? I was just wondering if -- what the company's position is on the filability/approvability of ramucirumab with just a PFS benefit given obviously the [indiscernible] experience.
And then my second question -- my second and final question was if I could go back perhaps to the margin longer-term margin guidance that you gave on your July call and maybe just a follow-up on that.
Could you just clarify for us is that margin guidance dependent on pipeline success in any way? And I guess I'll just leave it at that.
Great.
Thanks Mark.
We'll have Travis handle your first question for ramucirumab.
And then I'll ask Derica for the long-term margin guidance.
Travis? Hey Mark with respect to ramucirumab and breast cancer we expect to have that progression.
So yes I can confirm the primary endpoint for that trial is progression-free survival.
We expect to have that data sometime mid-next year.
However I do also need to mention that we are also looking in conjunction with the progression-free survival for trends in overall survival.
And specifically we'll look at the interim overall survival results which we intend to have about the same time as the final progression-free results.
So and I -- when I say have those I mean have those internally.
So again this may be similar to the gastric combination trial that Phil mentioned where we may not be in a position to disclose those results externally until 2014.
Before we go over to Derica in terms of the filability Mark our expectations would be that the ability to file based on the final PFS data and interim OS data will depend on the strength of that data.
But yes if it's extremely strong PFS data and there's a very strong trend on the interim OS that is certainly a possibility obviously subject to discussions with regulators.
The trial is in fact powered for OS even though that is a secondary endpoint.
So Derica if you can comment on the long-term margin guidance.
Sure.
Mark the -- we are committed to improving our margins beyond 2014 regardless.
Clearly at this stage we're planning on driving growth driven by the output from our pipeline.
And we're very encouraged as we talked about earlier the data that we're seeing.
This is always our -- part of our long-term strategy.
And clearly we still have other cards to turn over.
But even if the pipeline wasn't successful or as successful as we had hoped for we would still seek to take actions to improve our margins.
So that longer-term guidance that we provided is really where we see taking the business regardless of the pipeline outcomes when we look beyond that 2014 timeframe.
And I must say today when I look at the underlying growth of our business 9% growth in the U.S.
excluding Zyprexa; Japan is still growing 15% volumes; Alimta growing 13% volume; China growing 20% we're very much on track to meet or exceed those minimum financial goals that we set between now -- for 2014.
And that was also very important that we are -- our starting point is on the right bases.
And we're very encouraged by what -- the trends that we're seeing.
Next question is from the line of Jami Rubin Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions and again apologies if this was asked before I had to jump off.
But the Humalog and Humilin sales were light relative to our expectations.
And looking at insulin scripts insulin scripts have been strong.
So what's happening with the pricing environment? Is Novo taking or has Novo taken market share from you? If you can just provide a little bit more granularity on what you're seeing there.
And also I don't know if you answered the question as previously on ramu for gastric cancer what your filing plans are for that indication.
Great.
Thanks Jami.
You did ask a little more detailed than had been asked on the prior question for Humalog and Humulin about -- from the pricing environment thing so in the interest of time if it's okay we'll have Enrique answer that.
We actually did answer the filing question for ramucirumab.
So I'll be happy to follow up with you as soon as the call has concluded.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
I'm sorry about that.
No problem.
Enrique? Sure.
We do see pricing pressure in the U.S.
in particular.
What we basically see is that the negotiations that we basically have with some of the major players are more difficult than we have seen.
Their leverage increase as they have the ability to be able to move share as they restrict access to products given the contracts that they are able to establish.
So yes there is some pressure.
As we see from our perspective next year we expect to maintain the access that we basically have if anything maybe a slight net gain when it comes to the life for both human insulin Humulin as well as Humalog.
Next question is from the line of Tim Anderson Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> On -- back on the insulin products that lost formulary positioning in the U.S.
that contributed to weaker sales in the quarter.
Can you talk about whether you think there might be further formulary slippage going into 2013? And then on Alzheimer's disease I have a question not on solanezumab but rather on Amyvid your imaging agent.
You bought the company that developed the compound a couple of years ago and you brought it in-house.
And I'm trying to understand the strategic rationale for doing that seeing as Lilly doesn't really have a diagnostics business.
Are you expecting that Amyvid could be a significant product in terms of its sales potential as a stand-alone product? Or is the greater value tied to it somehow having synergies from the standpoint of developing your therapeutics? Great.
Thanks Tim for the questions.
We'll go to Enrique obviously for the insulin question and then to John on the strategy around Amyvid.
Enrique? Yes.
We do not expect to see slips when it comes to formulary.
What we expect if anything net gain a slight net gain when it comes to lives that are covered when we look at both Humilin and Humalog.
With respect to Amyvid the decision to acquire the company was one that we made independent of our assessment at that time of the likelihood of success with a therapeutic.
We believe then and we believe now that it's going to be important to provide tools like this to help positions make better diagnoses of people who are presumed maybe but not proven yet to have Alzheimer's.
So this is a company that we invested in through our venture fund and sort of had a connection with already when we made that decision to acquire Abbott.
I think the way in which this plays out in other words if the question is if there are going to be other PET ligands that we develop other diagnostic tools that we develop I will say that we are maintaining an active research program today at Avid across several different diseases including Alzheimer's.
And we'll continue to move forward with that and to consider the role that -- or the -- consider this in light of the fact that we have a pipeline that has a number of molecules and that they could emerge as therapeutic agents.
I'd also like to note that in early October CMS began what will probably be about a year-long process of looking at the question of reimbursability of these imaging agents in this category.
Recall that over 10 years ago a rule was put in place.
It really limited the use of PET imaging reimbursement from the standpoint of Medicare reimbursement to the FDG-type applications.
So this as we've said all along dating back from the approval is a very important aspect of us ultimately being able to supply Amyvid to people who could then get and hope to receive reimbursement through Medicare.
Marc Goodman UBS.
Research Division</strong> Yes a couple questions.
First Derica can you just talk about with respect to cost cutting where we are for the immediate term? I know you mentioned a longer-term guidance and obviously those changes will be made according to the pipeline.
But right now when we look at it have you made most of the cuts or are they in the numbers or are there still a couple more quarters from the original work that you were doing? Second question is if you could point to the Phase II pipeline which you've got a lot of products in there and just talk about 1 or 2 that are -- you're most excited about that we should be focused on.
And then third back to the GLP-1 market if you could just talk about what's going on there in the market what you're seeing and how excited you are about your product? I'm looking at BYDUREON Scripps and they don't seem to be moving as much as you would've expected.
So I guess I was curious how your product relates to that and about the overall market and your expectations.
Great.
Thanks for the questions Marc.
Obviously Derica for the first on the cost cutting.
Jan will come over to you then for the Phase II pipeline.
And then back to you Enrique on the GLP-1 market.
Mark in regard to cost cutting as you see this quarter our total expenses actually declined 3%.
Now that's primarily driven by our SG&amp;A.
And then in fact our R&amp;D expense was up 5%.
But the net decline was 3%.
We still see further opportunities to continue to improve our cost base.
We're still employing tools like Six Sigma and we're still looking at other transformation opportunities.
Obviously as our pipeline plays out that will also impact what our footprint and our infrastructure looks like going forward as well.
But we have not let our foot up off the gas in terms of continuing to look for greater efficiencies and more prudent ways to run our business.
And we think that that's really showing in the results that you're seeing.
In regards to where we are versus where we had planned to be I think we're actually ahead of schedule.
We more than exceeded our $1 billion cost-reduction goals last year by the end of 2011.
We're very much on track to be consistent with the cost bases that we are anticipating in this '12 to '14 timeframe.
So I'm very encouraged by the results and the trends that I'm seeing Marc.
Jan? Right.
So let me start by mentioning again baricitinib the oral molecule then for autoimmune disease developed together with Incyte.
And as you heard that will be presented in more details very soon.
The next one is the beta-secretase inhibitor which is an oral agent in the Alzheimer's disease space.
Again in the amyloid pathway and there has been an interesting study presented now that shows if you have mutations in the amyloid precursor protein at the [indiscernible] you are protected against Alzheimer's disease a study from the from the Icelandic population.
And we believe our base inhibitor could mimic this genetic experiment so to say in humans.
And we have a Phase II study ongoing where we actually have imaging positivity for Amyvid as an inclusion criteria to directly study that population.
The next one is glosuzumab [ph] a Sclerostin antibody where we have -- are receiving Phase IIb data as a bone anabolic but it looks very promising.
And finally an oral agent in diabetes a glucagon receptor antagonist where we also see opportunities to lower blood glucose using this very well-established mechanism that actually never have been exploited in diabetes particularly type 2 treatment.
Marc in addition -- this is Derica.
One of the other things we're encouraged by is we don't have to rely on a single asset.
So much like we talked about for our Phase III portfolio where we've got 12 assets sitting there we're not a one-horse bet here.
Likewise when we look at our Phase II pipeline we've got 22 assets that are sitting there today.
And you're talking about the breadth of both biologics versus small molecule.
And therapeutically we're looking at spans from oncology to still the neuroscience space as Jan said with BACE to also diabetes.
And so we're able to also continue to maintain the breadth in terms of our portfolio outlook that you're seeing today in terms of our current business mix.
Enrique for the GLP-1? Sure.
When we look at the market for GLP-1s outside of the U.S.
I would say that we're seeing good growth in particular in markets where BYDUREON has been launched whether it's Germany or the U.K.
I think the growth overall I think is meeting expectations.
When it comes to the U.S.
we've seen somewhat of a slowdown when it comes to the GLP-1 market.
I won't be able to comment on the BYDUREON performance in the U.S.
That question is probably best addressed by Bristol-Myers and AstraZeneca.
Next question is Chris Schott JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First set of questions just on the -- following up on some of the insulin dynamics.
I guess my first question is just looking at U.S.
insulin you lost some share this year.
It sounds like that's stabilized.
You're commenting the pricing environment is getting a bit tougher.
Can you just comment about what ultimately gets that business to reaccelerate as we think about the longer-term franchise? The second question in insulin you mentioned some geographies you were seeing a bit of a slowdown in insulin.
Just elaborate what geographies those are and what you think is behind all that.
And then a final question shifting gears a little bit to the pipeline.
Talk a little bit about the clinical program for your CETP how you're comparing that to anacetrapib but I think it's running a very -- can be a bit different Phase III program and how you see your CETP differentiating from anacetrapib.
Great.
Thanks for the questions Chris.
We'll have Enrique handle the first 2 and then have Jan and Travis get into the CETP question you've asked.
Enrique? Sure.
When it comes to the insulin the overall insulin market what we basically see is a very significant adoption of DPP-4s.
And we commented also on GLP-1s.
To some extent that is delaying the initiation on insulin and some of the earlier use of insulin.
We believe that some of these impacts are more short term.
I think we saw similar impacts when for example metformin was introduced in the U.S.
many years ago.
So my sense is that we will continue to see long-term insulin growth rates that are much more aligned with the historical rates but we're seeing some depressed rates now.
When it comes to the U.S.
clearly we do see some ebb and flow when it comes to the access in the payer environment.
We do expect insulin units to continue to grow.
People that are on insulin utilize about 2% to 3% more insulin every single year.
So we see a growing market long term in the U.S.
What we have to do is make sure that we have a level playing field when it comes to accessing in the U.S.
Our position when it comes to access is one of open access and having the ability to compete in that environment.
And we like our chances when it comes to both Humalog and Humulin within each of its relevant markets.
Now of course we're very excited about the pipeline that we have and the 2 insulins the basal analogues which for us is very significant because for us all of that means incremental revenue.
This is a segment of the market where we do not compete today.
And not only will we compete there but it will make us stronger in the other segments where we do compete today.
Jan? In relation to CETP inhibitors our evacetrapib have shown as you know impressive elevation of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol HDL and also a lowering of LDL which you could say is relatively similar to what anacetrapib have been publishing.
To directly compare them though it's harder to do it since we'd really need head-to-head studies.
Both agents have also shown that they don't share the properties of torcetrapib the Pfizer agent that failed in relation to blood pressure effects.
The type of outcome trials that we have for evacetrapib is in 11 000-patient trials and with a MACE outcome that is somewhat different in relation to endpoints compared to Merck's trial.
And we also have a higher-risk population for cardiovascular outcomes.
We are considering potentially here to publish a design paper together with the study investigators to provide more details about this trial.
Next question is Seamus Fernandez Leerink.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions one for Derica and John.
Can -- you guys now are operating with a fairly significant net cash position to my understanding particularly when you consider some of the investments on the balance sheet.
Can you just give us your thoughts on capital allocation going forward? You guys have opened up share repurchase possibilities but that looks like it's going to potentially close out towards the end of this year.
The dividend is obviously there as well as potential M&amp;A opportunities.
So just wondering if you could update us as you kind of move towards a larger net cash position.
And then the other question for Enrique.
Enrique can you just maybe give us your thoughts on again the opportunity of the larger portfolio in diabetes and what that really -- not just what it offers but the areas of the world in which you think that will be most impactful? And then just the last question on the Animal Health business can you just again update us on the slowdown in the Animal Health business? And really it sounded like it was coming from more of the feed additives portion of the market.
Which markets in particular was the source of this weakness? Great.
Thanks for the questions.
Seamus.
Derica you want to start us off with the net cash question and capital allocation? Sure.
In terms of our capital allocation strategy first it has very much been tied to our business strategy and it has not changed.
Our first priority was always to make sure that are properly funding our R&amp;D opportunities and I think we're beginning to see the merits of that investment today with the data that we've been able to begin to disclose.
Our second element of our strategy was to make sure that we -- from a capital standpoint that we were funding our growth opportunities.
So you've seen investments we've made in Animal Health both organically as well as some of the business development deals we've done.
We've talked earlier with John about the acquisition of Amyvid where we've been able to complement our existing molecular footprint.
And those were our first protocols.
Given that if we do continue to be very active in the business development space we said historically we have not been interested in the large-scale M&amp;A but we have been looking for those opportunities where we can either complement our existing commercial footprint and augment it or bring additional scientific value in terms of portfolio.
Having exhausted all those opportunities our last protocol then will be to begin to return some of that capital back to shareholders.
Given our -- the execution of our business strategy and where we stand today and the fact that I believe that we're actually ahead of where we thought we'd be this is what enabled us to be able to announce our share repurchase resumption back in June.
And well obviously as we stated at that time in terms of future share repurchases that's a conversation we'll have well with the board and it will have to be approved each year.
But lacking other investment opportunities we will seek to return that capital to shareholders.
Enrique for the opportunity for the larger portfolio and diabetes? We do see significant opportunities in diabetes across the globe.
We are pursuing a broad and comprehensive portfolio of medicines.
As we think about for example the oral classes we expect the DPP-4 class and the SGLT-2 class to be the largest oral classes by revenue by the end of the decade.
We are pleased with the progress that we're making with Tradjenta.
We are gaining share consistently across the world.
In particular in some of the emerging markets the product where we have comparable access or out-of-pocket market that product seems to be performing very very well and we have some of our high shares in the world.
And I think this speaks very well to what the product can offer in a playing field where we basically have comparable access which is something that we're very much working and improving in the U.S.
market.
We continue to be encouraged by the data that we see on empagliflozin.
We have spoken quite a bit about the GLP-1.
And then we have a broad range portfolio of insulins.
The critical mass that this portfolio is going to provide to us is very significant.
We'll be able to have a very significant reach which is critical when it comes to geographies all over the world because primary care today is the gatekeeper when it comes to diabetes treatment.
So we will have the right portfolio and the right commercial presence to ensure that we're meeting the needs of people with diabetes everywhere.
Ilissa? For Animal Health we saw growth of 6% in Q3 which was less than the significant double-digit growth that we saw in previous quarters.
In the U.S.
the growth was 16%.
And outside the United States we saw a decrease of 4%.
The growth was -- the slowing of growth was primarily due to the annualization of revenue from our acquisitions.
So last quarter that contributed 9 percentage points of growth.
In this quarter it only contributed 1 percentage point.
We also have mentioned on the call we saw stocking of Trifexis in prior quarters which we did not see in this quarter.
And then we saw weak September food animal sales and we're still looking to see if that's an anomaly for this one particular month or something that will continue which we'll keep a close eye on.
I just want -- this is John Lechleiter.
I want to just make a comment of as you saw on one of the slides we showed you earlier the volume growth for the quarter was 10% with Elanco so they were adversely affected by currency to some extent as well.
This is going to continue to be a very important segment for us.
I think the fact that we've grown up in the last decade or so organically a companion animal business really makes us a little less dependent on the ups and downs in the crops cycle and the impact that might have on the food animal part of our business.
So the secret sauce for Elanco is its pipeline.
And this is a company that has been -- has produced more innovation than anybody else in this space.
That's really what has driven growth thus far and we expect that to continue.
Great.
This is Phil.
Since we've gone past the top of the hour we'll close the Q&amp;A session here.
As we break I would like to recognize individual who for the investors has toiled behind the scenes that has been an invaluable support in Investor Relations group.
That's Arnie Hanish our Chief Accounting Officer who's retiring soon after 29 years with the company.
So Arnie thank you for your contributions.
And we thank all of you that have joined us this morning and appreciate your interest in Eli Lilly &amp; Company.
Travis Ilissa and myself will be available for the rest of the day for further questions that you may have.
We look forward to seeing you soon at ACR and other venues.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference.
We do thank you for joining -- or using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Q4 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct the question-and-answer session with instructions given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Phil Johnson.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for Eli Lilly &amp; Company’s Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
I’m Phil Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me this morning are Derica Rice our Chief Financial Officer; Dr.
Jan Lundberg President of Lilly Research Laboratories; Sue Mahony President of our Oncology business and Ilissa Rassner and Travis Coy from the Investor Relations team.
John Lechleiter our Chairman President and CEO is traveling overseas and is unable to join us today.
During this conference call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on Slide 3 and those outlined in our latest Forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
Since our last earnings call we had a number of significant events.
Here are some of the highlights.
On the regulatory front we had three approvals by the European Commission including Cialis for once-daily use for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of BPH; Amyvid is a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical for the PET imaging of beta-amyloid neuritic plaque density in the brains of adult patients with cognitive impairment who are being evaluated for Alzheimer’s Disease and other causes of cognitive impairment; and along with our partner Boehringer Ingelheim Trajenta for use in combination with insulin in adults with type 2 diabetes.
Erbitux received two approvals.
In Japan we along with our partners Merck Serono and Bristol-Myers Squibb received approval for Erbitux for the treatment of patients who had neck cancers.
And in Canada along with our partner Bristol-Myers Squibb we received approval for Erbitux in combination with a chemotherapy regimen as an initial treatment of patients with EGFR-expressing metastatic colorectal cancer.
Turning to clinical moves the Alzheimer’s disease cooperative study presented additional data from the solanezumab EXPEDITION studies at CTAD.
We also announced that we plan to conduct an additional Phase III study of solanezumab in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease.
At the American College of Rheumatology Annual Meeting we presented Phase II RA data for two of our autoimmune assays baricitinib the oral JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor in partnership with Incyte; and tabalumab our anti-BAFF monoclonal antibody.
For tabalumab we also announced the discontinuation of one of the three Phase III RA registration studies due to insufficient efficacy.
Timely with our partner Boehringer Ingelheim we announced top-line results for four Phase III trials of empagliflozin and SGLT-2 inhibitor being studied for the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes.
In all four studies the primary efficacy endpoint was met.
In business development news Lilly along with our partner Boehringer Ingelheim announced an adjustment to the scope of our diabetes alliance with Lilly reassuming sole worldwide development and commercialization rights to our investigational novel basal insulin analog.
And we received notice from Bristol-Myers Squibb to terminate the collaboration for necitumumab in North America and Japan which will result in Lilly assuming sole worldwide development and commercialization rights.
There were three other noteworthy events since the Q3 earnings call.
We reached an agreement with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to settle the issues regarding compliance with the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
As part of our efforts to align global manufacturing with long-term business needs we announced we will discontinue manufacturing operations in Mexico by mid-2015.
And our Board of Directors authorized the initiation of the new 1.5 billion share repurchase program which we anticipate completing in 2013.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 we repurchased $400 million worth of shares under this program and also completed the $490 million remaining in our previously authorized share repurchase program.
Now let’s discuss our financial performance for the quarter and the full year of 2012.
As we have done on previous calls we will focus our comments on the non-GAAP results which we believe provide insights into the underlying trends in our business.
This view excludes certain item such as restructuring charges asset impairments and other special charges.
On slide seven you can see that revenue in Q4 2012 was nearly $6 billion which is 1% below Q4 2011.
This decrease in revenue was due to the loss of patent exclusivity for Zyprexa in most major markets outside of Japan nearly entirely offset by growth from several other products including double-digit growth in the US for Cymbalta Alimta and our animal health products in international markets for Forteo Humalog and Strattera and in both US and international markets for Effient.
In Q4 2012 excluding Zyprexa outside of Japan the rest of our worldwide revenue grew 5%.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue increased 90 basis points from 78.1% to 79.0%.
This increase was driven by the impact of foreign exchange rates on international inventory sold which increased cost of sales in Q4 2011 but reduced cost of sales in Q4 2012.
Excluding these FX effect from both 2011 and 2012 gross margin as a percent of revenue declined by 0.3 percentage points from 78.8% in Q4 2011 to 78.5% in Q4 2012.
Moving down the income statement Q4 2012 total operating expense defined as the sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A declined 1%.
This reflects continued discipline in managing our operating expenses while investing in our pipeline to drive future growth.
Specifically this 1% decline is comprised of a 7% reduction in marketing selling and administrative expenses and 8% growth in R&amp;D expenses.
The reduction in marketing selling and administrative expenses was driven by lower marketing expenses and to a lesser extent by lower selling expenses.
The growth in R&amp;D expenses was largely driven by higher late stage clinical trial costs including a $50 million milestone payment to Incyte based on initiation of RA Phase III program for baricitinib and a $30 million charge related to the decision to stop one of the Phase III trials for tabalumab in rheumatoid arthritis.
Other income and deductions was the net expense of $52 million in Q4 2012 compared to net expense of $27 million in the fourth quarter 2011.
Our tax rate was 22.3% an increase of 2.4 percentage points from Q4 2011 primarily due to the lapse of R&amp;D tax credit in 2012.
Since the American Taxpayer Relief Act was passed in January of this year the full-year 2012 R&amp;D tax credit we recognized as a discrete tax benefit in Q1 2013.
At the bottom line net income and earnings per share each decreased 2% resulting in non-GAAP EPS of $0.85 for the quarter.
For the full year revenue decreased 7% driven by the loss of patent exclusivity for Zyprexa in most markets outside of Japan.
Excluding Zyprexa outside of Japan the rest of our worldwide revenue grew 6% for the full year.
Operating expenses in 2012 decreased 1% driven primarily by lower marketing expenses partially offset by increases in R&amp;D due to late stage clinical trial costs.
Finally net income and EPS each declined 23% driven by lower sales from the Zyprexa patent expiration.
In summary our full-year 2012 financial results clearly reflect the impact of Zyprexa patent expirations outside of Japan.
However 2012 results also demonstrate continued growth in a number of products and businesses not experiencing patent expiration.
Our fourth quarter results show that we’re emerging from the Zyprexa patent expiration period and with continued growth in the rest of our business along with Prudent Expense Management we are on track to return to growth in 2013.
We remain committed to meet or exceed our minimum financial targets through 2014 and are positioned to return to growth post-2014.
Slide eight shows our reported income statement while slide nine provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS.
Additional details about our reported earnings are available in today’s earnings press release.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Illisa.
Thanks Phil.
As we can see on slide 10 the total revenue decline of 1% in Q4 2012 shown in the yellow bar on the middle of the page was driven by a negative volume impact of 3% and a negative foreign exchange impact of 1% partially offset by a favorable price impact of 2%.
By geography you’ll notice that U.S.
volume decreased 10% and Europe’s volume decreased 3%.
both of these decreases were due to Zyprexa.
excluding olanzapine from both 2011 and 2012 volume in the rest of our U.S.
business is flat and was up 3% in Europe.
In Europe you’ll see a positive 1% impact from price.
Normally price in Europe was negative.
The increase in Q4 was driven by new information that led to accrual adjustments related to prior quarters of 2012.
Excluding these adjustments European price would have been down about 2%.
Turning to Japan we had another quarter of robust volume growth of 16% driven primarily by Forteo Alimta Zyprexa Strattera Cialis and Cymbalta.
This was partially offset by a negative 10% price impact due to the biannual price decreases primarily affecting Alimta and Gemzar.
In our ROW Line China was a significant growth driver in Q4 delivering 22% total growth almost entirely from volume.
Elanco Animal Health also delivered robust growth of 19% driven by strong organic growth in both the food and companion animal businesses.
Elanco continues to outperform the broader animal health market and is poised for double-digit income growth during the YZ years and beyond.
Finally the 17% decrease in collaboration and other revenue was due to the transfer of U.S.
exenatide rights to Amylin.
Excluding exenatide collaboration and other revenue grew 24% in the quarter.
Slide 11 shows the year-on-year growth of select line items of our non-GAAP income statement with and without the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates.
For both the quarter and the full year FX contributed positively to EPS growth despite weaker foreign currencies that had a negative effect on revenue.
This was more than offset by the positive effect of FX on international inventory sold which was through cost of sales.
As a result at the bottom line you can see that Q4 EPS declined 2% including FX and 6% excluding FX.
For the full year EPS declined 23% including FX and 29% excluding FX.
For your information on slide 12 we've provided the year-on-year growth of select line items our reported income statement with and without the effect of foreign exchange rates.
Slide 13 shows our pipeline as of January 21.
Changes since our last earnings call are highlighted with green arrows showing progression and red arrow showing attrition.
You will see that we began Phase III testing of the oral JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor baricitinib which we are developing in partnership with Incyte.
In addition we began Phase II testing of the small molecule for depression and a cancer biologics.
And we started Phase I testing of four assets three for diabetes and one for cancer.
we now have 13 assets in Phase III and we continue to believe that our robust pipeline spanning oncology diabetes cardiovascular neuroscience and autoimmune diseases positions us for growth post 2014.
We had a number of encouraging data readouts in 2012 that reinforce our confidence in the potential of our pipeline.
As we discussed in our dial-ins call earlier this month we expect a lot of pipeline activity in 2013 including our oncology molecule.
We are pleased to have Sue Mahony President of our Oncology business with us this morning to provide an update on the oncology pipeline.
Sue? Thanks Ilissa.
We are excited about the progress that we made in advancing our late-stage oncology pipeline in 2012 and we expect to continue this progress in 2013 with a number of data disclosures and potential submissions.
I will start with an update on ramucirumab.
Last week at ASCO GI we disclosed the first Phase III data of fully human monoclonal antibody which is a key late-stage pipeline assets similarly.
Ramucirumab selectively targets and blocks the VEGF receptor-2 into changes in blood vessel formation in humans.
The data was from the REGARD trial evaluating ramucirumab as a single agent compared to placebo and best supportive care in the second line treatment setting for patients with metastatic gastric cancer.
The trial met its primary endpoint of improved overall survival and also showed prolonged progression free survival.
Currently there are no agents specifically approved for second-line gastric cancer treatment in the U.S.
and Europe.
We believe that the overall efficacy and safety data from the REGARD trial demonstrated that ramucirumab has a promising treatment profile in the difficult to treat patient population.
We have been meeting with regulators to discuss our filing strategies and we intend to submit the regulatory approval in the U.S.
and Europe in 2013.
We also intend to have additional data presented and published from REGARD later this year.
Aside from REGARD three of the Phase III ramucirumab trials have completed patient enrollment ROW the first line metastatic breast cancer trial RAINBOW Moving on to necitumumab Lilly will be assuming sole worldwide development and commercialization rights from the termination of our agreement in North America and Japan from our partner Bristol-Myers Squibb.
We're fully committed to the development of necitumumab for which a Phase III study in squamous first-line metastatic non-small cell lung cancer SQUIRE is ongoing and fully enrolled.
We expect to have data readout from the SQUIRE trial later this year or early next year.
If the lung cancer trial necitumumab and ramucirumab are positive we will be positioned off a comprehensive treatment strategy for non-small cell lung cancer patient.
For Alimta the standard of care the first line of nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer.
With necitumumab the first-line squamous non-small cell lung cancer and with ramucirumab the second-line treatment.
Our third Phase III molecule Enzastaurin is being studied as maintenance therapy in patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma at high risk of relapse after heart shock induction therapy.
The prognosis for high risk patients through disease recurred is poor and there are no approved treatment in this clinical setting.
We expect to have the required number of events in the 12 new trial in the first half of 2013 and plan to submit later this year if the results are positive.
In addition to the three late stage molecules we have a robust early and mid-stage pipeline with novel mechanisms of action tailoring potential and early data in areas of significant unmet need.
We believe that Lilly’s large and diverse oncology pipelines positions us to success in the coming years and provide the basis for continued future growth.
And now Derica will summarize key events across our entire corporate portfolio for 2012 and ‘13 and discuss our updated 2013 financial guidance Derica?  Thanks Sue.
When we rolled out our 2012 guidance we've provided you with the list of key events for the year.
Now we updated that list quarterly so that you can keep track of our progress.
As those rated by the green checkmarks on slide 14 you can see that we made significant advances with our pipeline in 2012.
Now as Ilissa mentioned there is a lot to look forward to in 2013 as well.
Specifically as shown on slide 15 we anticipate a number of potential external data disclosures at scientific meetings.
These include presentation of detailed data from some of the Phase III trials for dulaglutide and in collaboration with Bullinger Ingelheim for empagliflozin.
Both potential treatment for type II diabetes.
And presentation of data from the Phase III trial of ramucirumab in first-line breast cancer.
Note that the data we expect to receive in 2013 from this trial will be the final progression free survival data and the interim overall survival data.
And finally presentation of data for the Phase III trial of enzastaurin as maintenance therapy for patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.
There are also a number of Phase III trials that may produce data in 2013 although presentation of detailed data at medical meetings would likely occur later.
These include the initial Phase III trials of our novel basal insulin analog for both type 1 and type 2 diabetes the pivotal trials for our new insulin glargine product.
The Phase III study of ramucirumab as combination therapy in second-line gastric cancer the initial trials of edivoxetine as adjunctive therapy for major depressive disorder.
Also we’ll conduct additional analyses of Phase III trials of tabalumab for rheumatoid arthritis.
In total we’ll have Phase III data read outs or detailed data presentation on 8 of our 13 Phase III assets.
in 2013 we could see up to five regulatory filings.
these include three diabetes assets dulaglutide empagliflozin and our new insulin glargine product and two oncology assets ramucirumab as monotherapy for second-line gastric cancer as well as enzastaurin for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.
As for other key events to watchful in 2013.
We plan to initiate another pivotal trial of solanezumab in patients with mild Alzheimer’s disease.
In August we’ll have the U.S.
District Court trial for the Alimta method of use patent and in December we’ll lose U.S.
exclusivity for Cymbalta.
We’re excited about 2013 and the opportunities we have to continue to advance our pipeline and to share data that will help investors better judge our growth potential post-2014.
Slide 16 shows the 2013 financial guidance that we discussed in detail on our call on January 4.
We have now incorporated the one-time benefit of the 2012 R&amp;D tax credit that will be recorded as a discrete item in Q1 of 2013.
You can see that the estimated full-year GAAP and non-GAAP tax rates have been lowered by 1.5 percentage point.
We've also raised our GAAP and non-GAAP EPS ranges by $0.07.
We now expect full year 2013 earnings per share to be in the range of $4.10 to $4.25 on a GAAP basis or $3.82 to $3.97 cents on a non-GAAP basis.
All other line items of our previously issued guidance remain unchanged.
If you are looking for additional color commentary on our 2013 guidance please refer to today's press release as well as the investor section at lilly.com where you will find the slides and audio from our January 4 call.
Slide 17 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS for 2012 and the associated growth rate from these numbers to our 2013 guidance.
To sum up we made steady progress in 2012 implementing our three strategic priorities; replenishing and advancing our pipeline driving strong performance on our marketed brands in key growth areas; and increasing productivity and reducing our cost structure.
Our financial results for Q4 2012 and the full year show our progress with China Japan Elanco and several key brands all producing double-digit volume growth for the quarter and the full year.
This strong performance combined with our disciplined and managing costs generated $5 billion of operating cash flow covering capital expenditures of about $900 million and our dividend are roughly $2.2 billion and enabling us to complete our prior share repurchase program and to initiate the new $1.5 billion share repurchase program.
Our continued strong operating performance gives us confidence that we will successfully navigate through IV with the capacity to drive future growth.
We continue to be on track to meet or exceed our mid-term financial projections.
Minimum annual revenue of at least $20 billion net income of at least $3 billion and operating cash flow of at least $4 billion.
Looking at the pipeline we made significant progress over the past 12 months.
We advanced 12 molecules into Phase 1 eight molecules into Phase II two molecules into Phase III and launched Amyvid in the U.S.
We now have 13 assets in Phase III and 23 assets in Phase II with a good mix of small molecules and biologics across all basis of our portfolio.
We generated a significant amount of data in 2012 and we anticipate data readout or detailed presentations on each of our 13 Phase III assets this year.
This is the most robust mid to late stage pipeline in our history and it positions us to drive growth post 2014.
We continue to believe that our innovation strategy is the right one to benefit patients and create value for shareholders.
We look forward to providing more update as we continue to execute this strategy.
Now this concludes our prepared remarks and we will take your questions.
Julie first caller please?   Thank you very much and good morning.
I had a question for Sue; I was wondering if you could comment on if there is a scenario in the cancer area where a drug hit PFS and OS and wasn’t approved or didn’t get priority review.
And whether if you could just comment on Eli’s data is out what was most surprising to HER as far as total dataset released thanks? Thank you Catherine.
With regards to your first question about whether there’s has been agents in the cancer market that has overall survival on PFS data without approval of priority review.
I am not aware of any molecule in the cancer market that has had overall survival and PFS data that hasn’t been approved or indeed have priority review.
With regard to your question about the data for REGARD for Ramucirumab obviously we were very pleased to see the data and we were pleased by the reaction that we had from investigators and thought leaders in prescribing physicians ASCO GI last week.
I think specifically this is the first study to show both an overall survival and progression free survival advantage in a difficult to treat patient population in a high unmet need.
As a single agent and this was a single agent study for Ramucirumab.
And in addition to that we saw a safety and side effect profile with again we we’re pleased to see with just 10.5% of patients coming off therapy because of the side effects in the ram arm 6% in the placebo arm.
So I think it is a balance between the efficacy that we saw and the safety that we saw in that trial that we were presently pleased to see.
Catherine thanks for the questions.
Julie if we have the next caller please.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
Couple of pipeline questions.
Your pipeline charges that you have a CDK4/6 inhibitors in Phase II that’s similar to the Pfizer compound.
I am wondering when we might see that efficacy data from that Phase II trial.
And then on solanezumab just a regulatory update in the ex-U.S.
markets if I understand it correctly that you could potentially file the drug for approval in certain ex-U.S.
markets without the need for the additional trial that you described on December 12 and if there is a possibility when what might we hear more from you on this matter? Okay great.
Tim thanks for the question.
Sue do you want to answer the question on the CDK4/6 timing? Sure yeah.
You have to give update on the – okay.
Yes you are correct we do have a CDK4/6 inhibitor in Phase II study.
It’s currently being developed for relapsed and refractory (inaudible).
And we expect this trial to conclude in 2014 and we are also planning on future trials with this molecule.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Jan.
In relation to our plans with solanezumab outside U.S.
we are in preliminary discussions with a number of regulators but it’s too early to comment it there could be different actions being taken in different geographies but the systems are somewhat different compared to the FDA.
LLC.
Research Division</strong>  Great.
Tim thank you for the questions.
Julie can we have our next caller please.
Yeah.
Just one follow-up on the CDK4\6 the Phase II trial you’ve had ongoing out fragmental has been running for three four years or so.
Is this a function of focus of Lilly or could you just comment on the competitive specificity of both the Asian competitor and Pfizer component? Okay Sue? Yeah we obviously don’t have comparative data both despite (inaudible).
I can tell you that we are very excited by our CDK4\6 inhibitor and as I mentioned we have on going plans to have further studies of this molecule going forward.
So you should be seeing more and hearing more about this molecule going forward? Okay thanks Sue.
Julie next caller please.
Inc.</strong>  Thanks very much.
Also one for Sue Mahony Sue I understand that and then respectful of the comments with Ramucirumab and the REGARD trial and filing in the second line monotherapy indication but I’m curious just simply based on the six week benefit if that’s truly sufficient that you do not need RAINBOW in order to support that filing and you could add RAINBOW or provide that to the FDA in the subsequent time.
Thanks very much.
Thank your for the question.
With regard to the data from the monotherapy study REGARD just to – we emphasized why we believe that this is a study that we plan to submit to the authority this year.
Again there is no approved agent in the second line setting in gastric cancer and this is the first non-chemotherapy agent that will have shown both an overall survival and a progression free survival improvement.
Now you mentioned the 1.4 months we put that into perspective.
The patients in the control arm with the medium of 3.8 months and that compared to 5.2 months for the Ramucirumab with a hazard ratio that shows a reduced risk of death of 22% and this corresponds to increase in medium survival of 37%.
Again with a safety profile were 10.5% of patients discontinued therapy due to adverse events in the random arm compared to 6% in the placebo arm and the most frequent grade three or moderate adverse event being hypertension 7.6% grade three in the random arm versus 2.6% grade in the placebo arm with no grade four severe hypertension.
So we believe again with that the balance of efficacy and safety in this very high unmet need with this no approved therapies but this is a chart that we believe that we should submit and plan to submit as quickly as possible.
now obviously we cannot comment on how the regulatory authorities will view this data and we will continue to work with the regulatory authorities to ensure that we have a robust data packages possible to ensure approve this molecule as quickly as possible for patients.
Okay.
Thank you Sue.
thanks Tony.
Julie next caller please.
Operator Thank you.
Greg Gilbert from Bank of America please go ahead.
Sure.
A couple of more on ramucirumab 2 you guys have had the data for some time and you’ve been talking to the regulators for some time.
so can you share with us what piece of info or conversation guidance that you would actually submit? And secondly Sue how quickly could the organization be ready to launch and can you put some context around that organization and how nimble it is and what would we like to launch a new product in the current configuration? Thanks.
All right yeah.
Thank you.
We have initiated conversations with regulatory authorities but I really can’t comment at this point on what those conversations have been or really anticipate or make any predictions about what the regulatory authorities will do with this data.
And we made the decision to submit based on what we believe is the robustness of both this data and the stipulating activity that we’ve seen.
With regard to preparation for launch we have a history of oncology with deep oncology experience at Lilly and our objectives and plan will be to get this agent approved as quickly as possible and we will see to PET to launch accordingly.
Greg thanks for the questions.
Julie next caller please.
Hi thanks very much for the questions.
So quickly Sue can you give us an idea of how we should think about the commercial opportunity in the second line of setting for Ramucirumab particularly in gastric cancer first off.
What’s the number of patients that we would expect to see whether it would be in the US or internationally with gastric cancer for this indication? And then second question as it relates to Ramucirumab specifically in the other cancers what do you think that you are learning about Ramucirumab at this point that’s new and different from Avastin? Is it differentiating itself more on the efficacy in your opinion or the safety or both? Thanks.
Okay.
With regards to your first question about the opportunity in gastric cancer if we look globally gastric cancer is the forth most common cancer in the world with nearly a million patient being diagnosed each year with gastric cancer and about 700 000 deaths each year.
Now it is more prevalent in Asian countries than it is in the Western world.
And in the US the incidence is about 20 000 Americans who we diagnosed with gastric cancer and about 10 000 death.
So the larger population is in the Asia world however again as I mentioned the unmet need is great and there are no approved medicines in the US and there is no agreed standard of care in the US.
With regards to the second….
What are you learning with the possibility for ram in terms of how it may or may not compare with the last month safety and efficacy.
Yeah Ramucirumab is an anti-angiogenic but it works very differently to Avatin.
Ramucirumab is selective to the VEGF 2 receptor and we see this as being a different mechanism of action.
So we will continue to see data going forward.
The hypothesis when we developed Ramucirumab would be – well that selectivity would generate both efficacy and potentially both efficacy and safety benefit.
Obviously we’ll continue to see more data over the next 12 months to 18 months with our trials but we’re pleased to see the third trial lead out in monotherapy which is different and with the safety profile that we’ve see again looks very promising.
Okay thanks Sue.
Thanks Seamus.
Julie next caller please.
Thanks.
Two questions.
First on the last call you stated that you are in a process of reviewing glargine biosimiliar data and that it was encouraging relative to comparability.
I am wondering if you have any further thoughts on the data and how is this data different than the data Derica referred to on Page 15.
So that’s the first question.
Then second question is for Dr.
Lundberg does Lilly believe 18 months is sufficiently long to test the base inhibitor in Phase III and does Lilly believe monomers are inherently toxic or are they devoid of biologic activity.
Thank you.
All right great.
Thanks Steve I’ll go ahead and answer your first question on glargine before turning it over to Jan.
So the data that and Rick I think mentioned on our last call that Derica also mentioned on this call is essentially the same.
There are number of studies to support registration that we’re in the process of concluding or we’ll conclude here in the first part of 2013.
That we expect to support a submission later this year.
Jan? The duration of Alzheimer trials it’s the key topic for our future discussions here regarding various agents.
Currently solanezumab was tested for 18 months are there we were actually able to see reduction in cognitive decline.
So I think that tells that 18 month could be enough providing that we chose the population of mild Alzheimer's disease.
The specific PRO-based needs to be determined after we have the full Phase 2 data and discussions that regulates this.
The toxicity of monomers for Ab1-42 is there and sola data suggests that if you influence the free monomers you actually have a beneficial effect on cognition in the Alzheimer’s disease patients.
Great.
Thanks Jan.
Thanks Steve.
Julie next caller please.
Hi this is Jay Olson on behalf of Jami Rubin.
Couple of questions first off on Alimta could you please update on the status of your method of use patent in Europe and when we should expect to hear more in that? And secondly one of your competitors are about to spin-off their animal health business and if that transaction goes well would you consider a similar approach with your animal health business? Thank you.
Great thanks Jay.
Sue for the Alimta question then Derica for the question on animal health.
Sure the Alimta question was around the method of use.
Let me just comment on the fact to remind people that the court affirmed the validity of the compound patent last year so we have Alimta patent in Europe through to 2017 and sorry – U.S.
through 2017 and Europe through 2015.
And with regard to the method of use patent which is the administration of (inaudible) and bitumen B trials.
The court hearing will be held in the U.S.
here in August.
In Europe the patent or a similar patent was challenged by the European Patent Office and a ruling was issued in Lilly’s favor in the first instant; this is being appealed but we do not have any update on the timing of that appeal.
Great.
Derica? In regards to our animal health business obviously we know that there is a lot of interest in Pfizer spin out there but in regards to Lilly we have no intention to divesting of our animal health business.
We’ve been quiet pleased with it.
As you heard earlier in the fourth quarter our animal health business grew about 18% and for the year it grew about 21% and this is the business that we actually anticipate will double over this period we call it YZ.
And so we have got great returns from that business and great benefit for Lilly.
We also have received significant synergies between our animal health business as well as with our human pharma business both in terms of innovation.
Most of our human before testing a human we run our molecules through animal model.
And so that provide you a lot of leverage to our animal health.
And then in addition to that we also give leverage through and synergies through our manufacturing and corporate overhead base.
So for now we are very pleased with our animal health business and we see this being a long main stay in terms of our portfolio mix.
Yeah one thing Jim I would add as well is in the animal health business in large part due to the entry into and substantial success that we’ve had in the companion animal market but also due to continuing productivity efforts within our food animal business we’ve seen a substantial margin expansion over the last few years out of Elanco Animal Health.
We have been running with margins on a pre-tax basis of roughly sort of high-teens and that’s now into the mid-20s with the factors that I just mentioned.
We are very pleased with the performance that unit has generated and is poised to generate going forward.
Julie next caller please.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Just had two questions first was on diabetes I know it’s early.
But in this scenario where you have a basal insulin but it’s just biosimilar glargine how meaningful opportunity is that for Lilly and is that a more instinct product in the emerging markets or the dealt markets.
And the second question was has the failure of Merck’s productive changed how you’re thinking of CTP in your program there? Thank you.
Okay great.
I think I’ll go ahead Chris and take your question on diabetes and then maybe have Jan comment on the cardiovascular space.
In a scenario where we would just have the biosimiliar if you will insulin glargine product.
We do view that as an opportunity not just for emerging markets but also for developed markets.
We do think we’re probably one of the very small number of the companies that’s well positioned to compete effectively in this space given the current insulin manufacturing infrastructure that we have.
The commercial infrastructure that we’ll continue to have as well as the device presence as well.
It’s hard to predict going forward but in large numbers we said that we could certainly see significant continued views of the glargine molecule through this decade roughly maybe a third of it still being branded Lantus and another third roughly being the other forms or other companies insulin glargine products that which we know were as far long as anyone if not the furthest along in that development path.
So there still would be I think a very substantial market opportunity in both developed as well as developing markets for this kind of a product.
Jan? See the key mechanism is very different compared to the recently reported Merck data and with our CETP inhibitor we can really maximize the elevation of HDL more than 100% and in addition we have a LDL lowering.
And genetic data also support that if you have certain mutations of the CETP you can actually have a protection of cardiovascular risk.
Okay.
Thank you Jan.
Thanks Chris.
Julie next caller.
Yeah thanks very much.
I have two questions first with respect to your CETP inhibitor; I was just hoping that you could explain the trial rationale.
So Lilly's outcomes trial is 11 000 patients and is shorter in duration than Merck’s and Merck’s is 30 000 patients.
So just trying to understand the rationale for a much smaller and shorter trial than Merck’s.
And then second with respect to the sola publication timing could you just give us an update on that when that data will be published? Thank you.
Okay thanks Dave for the questions.
We’ll have Ilissa comments.
Jan feel free to join if you like.
Ilissa? Thanks David.
For the CETP inhibitor we believe we've designed an appropriately powered study to test the study hypostasis.
One thing you'll notice if you look in ct.gov you'll see that the populations of the two trials are different as are the primary endpoints.
And we’re currently in the process of evaluating on the possibility of publishing a paper to talk more about the specifics of the trial.
In regards to solanezumab and the publication strategy actually it’s the ADCS that will be publishing so it's really up to their timeline.
I think it's possible that you could potentially see something later this year and again it's in their hands and we'll have to see what they come up with.
Great.
Thanks Dave.
Thanks Ilissa.
Julie next caller.
Yes Sue maybe you can talk about the many oncology drugs in Phase II.
can you pick a couple of them and can you talk about what you’re most excited about and why? And then second question just on the insulin franchise can you give us a sense of any major changes going on and just trends and things like that just both in the U.S.
and overseas any managed care contracts and changes that we should be aware of for 2013 in the U.S.? Thanks.
Great thanks Marc.
Sue and then I’ll take the question on the insulin.
Yeah.
We have a number of products staying in Phase II into the oncology and patent.
If we look across our pipeline we’ve got a pretty robust and diverse pipeline of those small and large molecules.
And I never like to pick some of the babies or preferred in any of these discussions but as we indicate what we’ve already mentioned and this is one that we intend to be pretty aggressive going forward on as a company and as a business unit.
And we’re also excited by our JAK2 inhibitor and continue to progress that molecule.
c-Met antibody is another one that you should be hearing more about as it’s tedious data.
So there are a large number of them.
I’d mention a few back we should be seeing more data on in the coming months and years and that we continue to look at to aggressively develop those molecules.
Great.
Thanks Sue.
So Marc in terms of trends that are happening in the insulin market that’s going to start with the U.S.
For 2013 we don’t expect significant changes in the payer environment nothing to the extent that we would have seen these in our favor as we went into 2011 or in the favor for novel in 2012.
You have seen stabilization in terms of share market within the mealtime insulin segment on the NRx basis where we basically had the trough in sort of the June-July period of last year have been creeping backup slightly since then and on TRx basis we have pretty much leveled out around that 39.5% from the last three or four months.
So I think relatively stable picture in terms of share market which should mean that in a growing market we could return to have some volume growth here in the U.S.
Pricing will continue I think to be pressured from some of the payor actions that we’re taking in 2012.
I think you will continue to see that as we head through in particular the first half of 2013 until that begins to annualize and then with some of the adjustments that were made in some of our accruals for rebates and discounts the detriment of our result in Q4 of 2012 actually by the time get to Q4 of 2013 you will have a pretty favorable comparing you could see a much different dynamic on the year-on-year changes.
Only U.S.
we have seen pretty stable to slightly increasing market shares.
We have continued to be talked about in the past to gain share in China for example.
So I think we are very pleased with the performance in holding our own to slightly increasing share overall outside the U.S.
Julie next caller please? Hey guys thanks a lot for taking my question.
I apologize if I repeat a question my line dropped few times if I do just don’t answer it but maybe apologies for that.
But maybe I can ask some oncology stuff.
For Ramucirumab in breast cancer if you are unable to show an overall survival benefit in breast cancer I think most people understand you could still file on that but I think the question becomes what do you think of the clinically significant improvement in PFS if no OS benefit is shown.
I thin when we look at the vast and experience we are all trying to figure out what the FDA might consider to be a clinically significant PFS change without an OS benefit? And then can you just quickly on necitumumab without a new disclosure that Bristol you’re no longer working with Bristol on that program and if so are you able to provide any color.
Thank you.
Great thanks Mark.
Sue you want to take the two questions.
With regard to the breast cancer study we should get data on the breast cancer study later this year.
And we’re anticipating that we will see both progression free survival and hopefully a trend overall survival as well we’ll be looking at both of those.
We will make a decision to submit based on the overall data.
I don’t think there is one point either on PFS or OS or has the ratio that we will be looking for.
We will be looking at the total efficacy and safety of this molecule to make a decision with regard to submission in the likelihood of approval.
And we’re no more in that later this year.
With regard to necitumumab yes this is a new disclosure BMS have exercised there right to terminate the agreement on the necitumumab.
It’s a strategic decision that they’ve made.
We remain very committed to necitumumab in fact we see necitumumab as a key part of our lung cancer strategy with Alimta being those standard of care and first line nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer with necitumumab being studied in squamous non-small cell lung cancer and ramucirumab being studied in second line lung cancer.
So we see this as an important asset for strategically.
Great thanks.
Thanks Mark.
Julie next caller please.
Thanks.
Just a follow-up on the CETP outcome study.
Do you have any color as to what the base line HDL of the patient that you’ve been bold or are in the ranges of less than 30 or in the mid-40s.
And then secondly Derica I noticed in Europe pricing has improved a little bit in the fourth quarter.
Is that something of a trend that you can call out or was there something special in that quarter? Thank you Michael.
this is Phil so on the CETP I need to follow-up since in the room here we don’t have the specific answer to your question and then Derica and or Travis you want to comment on the European price that would be great.
Sure Michael in terms of the EU you did see that we had showed a 1% price increase in the fourth quarter of 2012 that is not the typical pricing pattern that we would see.
We did have some adjustments made through prior accruals in the fourth quarter if you were to exclude those you would see the usual 1% to 2% price decline which is more typical what we would see in Europe.
Thanks Derica.
Julie next caller please.
Great.
Good morning thanks for taking the questions.
Just two questions one on Boehringer Ingelheim’s decision to move away from the novel insulin just want to see if we should look at any sort of red flags being raised with that sort of strategic decision and kind of your enthusiasm still behind that product.
And then secondly I know it’s still several quarters away but as we look to the exchange is being set up for 2014 in the U.S.
I was wondering if you could talk about your pricing power for those particular markets.
Thanks.
All right thanks Damien.
With regard to the BI decision to no longer participate in the novel basal insulin analog this I don’t think you should read any particular red flag so particularly from a clinical perspective on we are in the process of running the Phase III trial and those produced data beginning later this year we continue to be as we outline the ADA meeting we had our investor events there last year in 2012 very interested in this molecule.
I think that particular set of data that was discussed ADA gave people a better feeling for why it is that we were talking about the potential to show not just differences and rates of hyperglycaemia but also to see a potential different weight profile compared to the current alternative as well as potential tighter control of HbA1c.
I’d also remind you that we saw a pretty significant reduction as well in the utilization of mealtime insulin as well that could be another benefit from both the patient as well the payor perspective for this molecule.
So we remain very excited about this opportunity and look forward to the data that will come from the Phase III trial starting later this year.
Derica? In regards to the U.S.
exchange is that just given that at early stages of development it’s very difficult to speculate at this time what the pricing environment will be as a result of those.
I think once if and when they come online and we get more insights will be more than willing to share that.
But at this stage we’re really not in a position to speculate.
Okay.
Thanks Derica.
Thanks Damian.
Julie next caller please.
Thanks for the follow-up question.
Just have a very quick question maybe this is more for Derica.
We’re actually hearing from physicians here and there some concerns about I would say it’s a follow-up to Damian’s question on exchanges more than anything.
but can you just give us your general thoughts on the impact of accountable care organizations as it relates to potential prescribing going forward particularly of new molecules that would be priced at a premium? Thanks.
Again many of those organizations are still under development.
If you were to talk to our managed care group in our U.S.
business what they would tell you that one of the changes we are seeing is that innovation has become more important than ever.
And your ability or our ability to clinically differentiate our molecules is going to be the biggest determinant of us achieving both formulary access as well as pricing flexibility especially if you’re pursuing or speaking anything similar to what we’ve experienced previously.
In the absence of that then you’re more likely to experience more commodity like behavior and we’ve seen a little bit of that on the insulin side here recently.
so when we look at our portfolio of late stage product those 13 assets that we have in Phase III development we feel very good about the clinical differentiation that we’ve seen in that data that we’ve shared externally and what we’ve seen internally and that’s’ why when we talked about ram here today.
The fact that there is no agent currently approved in the U.S.
or the EU no single-agent approved for second-line gastric.
So if we’re able to with that data like that we feel very good about not only getting through the regulatory hurdle but also achieving formulary access and refill pricing environment.
Julie has there anyone else joined the queue? One last quick one Derica what was that change in Europe that led to the revenue tweak in the fourth quarter? I just want to make sure it’s not something with important read through going forward in Europe? Thanks.
There was nothing in particular other than just of looking at prior period accruals and having to adjust those along the way based upon new information.
Thanks.
Greg if you want little more detail on that.
I mean as Derica mentioned just third-party and government rebate accruals.
Thank you.
Very good well thank you very much for dialing in and listening to the call today and the participation in the Q&amp;A session.
Obviously I had a very strong finish to 2012 that positions us well heading into ‘13 and ‘14 and definitely a lot on our plate in terms of data readouts this year that should provide you quite a bit of information on how to return to growth in that post ‘14 period.
We look forward to the future interactions and keeping up to date on our progress.
Hope you have a great day.
Take care.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Q1 Earnings Call 2013.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session with instructions being given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder today’s conference is being recorded.
I’d now like to turn the conference over to our host Vice President of Investor Relations Phil Johnson.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us for Eli Lilly and Company’s first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
I’m Phil Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are our Chairman and CEO Dr.
John Lechleiter; our Chief Financial Officer Derica Rice; our President of Lilly Research Laboratories Dr.
Jan Lundberg; our President of Elanco Animal Health Jeff Simmons; and Ilissa Rassner and Travis Coy from the Investor Relations.
During this conference call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on slide three and those outlined in our latest Forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
We’re pleased with our performance in the first quarter of 2013 as growth in key products and regions replaced the lost revenue in earnings due to the Zyprexa patent expirations.
Lilly employees remain focused on advancing the pipeline and on increasing productivity while delivering results that put us on track to meet our 2013 financial guidance and to meet or exceed our mid-term financial minimum goals.
Let’s start with a quick review events that have taken place since our last earnings call.
From a regulatory perspective the first two items that I’d like to highlight were achieved in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim.
We received approval in Japan for Tradjenta as add-on therapeutic insulin and we submitted the SGLT2 inhibitor empagliflozin to both the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration and the European Medicines Agency for review as a treatment for type 2 diabetes.
We also submitted insulin lispro U-200 in the U.S.
for type 1 and type 2 diabetes patients.
And we’re pleased to announce that the complication with the FDA we received Fast Track designation and have initiated a rolling BLA submission for ramucirumab as monotherapy treatment for second-line gastric cancer.
The first module was recently submitted and we anticipate that the final module will be submitted before the end of the year.
Based on the overall efficacy and safety data from the REGARD trial we believe that ramucirumab has a promising treatment profile in this difficult to treat patient population and we look forward to completing the rolling submission.
In clinical news for dulaglutide our investigational GLP-1 receptor agonist being studied as a once-weekly treatment for type 2 diabetes.
We announced that the primary end points related to reduction in HbA1c were met in the Phase 3 AWARD-2 and AWARD-4 studies.
Furthermore the 1.5 milligram dose demonstrated statistically superior reduction in HbA1c from base line compared to insulin glargine in both trials.
We also announced that we have discontinued the Phase 3 Rheumatoid Arthritis program for Tabalumab due to lack of efficacy.
The Phase 3 program for lupus is continuing as planned.
On the business development front Elanco announced the investment of approximately $100 million to purchase a minority equity stake in China Animal Healthcare one of the leading players in the animal health industry in the People’s Republic of China.
The investment expands Elanco’s commitment to China with the goal of providing innovative safety enhancing food production solutions to help meet the growing food demands nutritional needs of the Chinese people.
And we completed the transfer of OUS commercial rights for exenatide to Amylin Bristol-Myers Squibb and AstraZeneca.
In other news we completed the $1.5 billion share repurchase program that we announced late last year.
To prepare for the upcoming loss of exclusivity for Cymbalta and Evista adapt to changing customer needs and the evolution of the U.S.
healthcare environment we initiated a restructuring of our U.S.
sales force.
The main component is restructuring it is significant reduction to our U.S.
biomedicine sales force with the reductions focused on our primary care sales force.
In addition the restructuring takes into account termination of our U.S.
promotion of Livalo and transfer of the rights back to Kowa Pharmaceuticals as well as a small expansion of our diabetes sales force.
Finally as part of our continued efforts to align global manufacturing capacity with long-term business needs we announced that we will close our packaging and distribution side in Eastern Germany during 2014.
Now let’s move on to discuss our financial performance as we’ve done on previous calls we will focus our comments on the non-GAAP results which we believe provide insights into the underlying trends in our business.
This will exclude certain items such as restructuring charges asset impairments and other special charges.
I should point out that our non-GAAP results include ongoing costs such as amortization and stock-based compensation.
Turning to the income statement on slide 7 you can see the total revenue was flat at $5.6 billion as growth in key products and regions offset lower revenue following a loss of patent exclusivity for Zyprexa in most major markets outside of Japan.
Excluding Zyprexa outside of Japan the rest of our revenue grew 5%.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue increased 70 basis points from 78.6% to 79.3%.
The increase in gross margin percent was due to higher production volumes and higher prices partially offset by higher manufacturing expenses.
This quarter’s total operating expense defined as the sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A was also flat.
Within operating expenses marketing selling and administrative expenses declined 11% as a result of the company’s cost containment efforts.
R&amp;D expenses increased 17% largely driven by higher late-stage clinical trial costs including roughly $90 million of milestone payments to Boehringer Ingelheim for the U.S.
and European regulatory submissions for empagliflozin and about $60 million related to the discontinuation of the Phase 3 tabalumab RA program.
Excluding these items R&amp;D expenses grew only 4%.
Other income and deductions was a net income of $34 million in Q1 2013 compared to a net expense of $46 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Our tax rate was 15.5% this quarter a decrease of nearly 9 percentage points from Q1 2012.
The decrease reflects the reinstatement of U.S.
R&amp;D tax credit for 2013 as well as the one-time impact associated with R&amp;D tax credit for 2012 that was recorded this quarter.
At the bottom line our non-GAAP EPS increased 24% to $1.14.
This includes a benefit of $0.07 due to the 2012 R&amp;D tax credit.
Slide eight shows our reported income statement while slide nine provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS.
As expected this quarter we recognized approximately $495 million of income or $0.29 of EPS due to the transfer of exenatide commercialized Amylin Bristol-Myers Squibb and AstraZeneca in all markets outside the U.S.
Additional details about our reported earnings are available in today's earnings press release.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Travis.
Thanks Phil.
As you can see on slide 10 our revenue was flat as the result of a 4% increase in higher prices offset by a 3% decline in volume and 1% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange rate.
You will notice that U.S.
Pharma sales increased 3% driven by increased price that was partially offset by lower volume.
The volume decline was primarily due to the loss of patent exclusivity for Zyprexa.
This quarter our revenues in Japan were significantly impacted by the weakening of the yen.
The 13% decline from foreign exchange and 3% decline due to the Q1 2012 by annual price decreases were partially offset by strong double-digit volume growth of 11%.
As for emerging market which is embedded in rest of the world revenue grew 3% this quarter or 6% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Within emerging market China continued to register double-digit revenue growth up a 11% driven by strong volume growth of 18%.
Elanco Animal Health sales grew 2% this quarter in the U.S.
sales grew 9% as increased demand for continued animal products offset lower volume for food animal products outside the U.S.
sales decreased 8% driven by lower volume for food animal products.
The volume decrease in food animal products outside the U.S.
was due to transition stocking in 2012 associated with the Janssen acquisition as well as weakness in demand in many emerging markets that was consistent with rather industry trends.
Despite the slowing of growth this quarter we continue to expect that Elanco will deliver robust growth in 2013 and in the coming years.
Finally the 18% decrease in collaboration and other revenue is due to the transfer of exenatide rights to Amylin.
Excluding exenatide collaboration and other revenue grew 12% this quarter driven by Tradjenta.
Foreign exchange had a relatively small impact upon our financial performance this quarter.
Consequently we have moved the slide showing the impact of FX upon line items in our P&amp;L to the supplementary section in the back of the deck.
Next I’ll provide a brief pipeline update before turning the call over to Derica.
Slide 11 shows our pipeline as of April 17.
Changes since our last earnings call are highlighted with green arrow showing progression and red arrow showing attrition.
As Phil mentioned in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim we’ve submitted empagliflozin to the U.S.
and European Regulatory Agencies.
We are excited by the potential of the SGLT-2 class for the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes.
We believe empagliflozin’s ability to lower blood glucose via a mechanism of action that is independent of beta-cell function or insulin resistant could offer benefit for people managing their diabetes.
As noted by the double asterisks we also initiated a rolling BLA submission for ramucirumab.
With respect to earlier stages of the pipeline you’ll see that we began Phase 2 testing of three potential medicines a biologic for chronic kidney disease and two small molecules for cancer (inaudible) inhibitor and EGFR inhibitor and we began Phase 1 testing of a small molecule for chronic kidney disease.
In addition we terminated development of four molecules two in Phase 2 and two in Phase 1.
In addition to empagliflozin and ramucirumab we have the potential to complete filings for three more Phase 3 assets this year and believe this pipeline positioned us well for growth post 2014.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Derica to cover some of the key events for 2013 to review our financial guidance and to provide closing comments before we open the call for Q&amp;A.
Derica?  Thanks Travis.
I’ll begin my remarks with slide 12 now as we mentioned previously 2013 is an exciting year Eli Lilly and Company.
Let me give you a quick reminder of the potential key events for remainder of this year and we continue to advance our pipeline and generating share clinical data that will help you better gauge our growth potential post 2014.
A number of potential external data disclosures remain this year these include presentation of detailed data at the American Diabetes Association from the AWARD-1 AWARD-3 and AWARD-5 trials of the Phase 3 program for dulaglutide and in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim for multiple Phase 3 trials for empagliflozin both potential treatments for type 2 diabetes.
On June 24 we’ll host an Investor event to discuss these data.
In oncology we could have presentation of data from the Phase 3 trial of Ramucirumab in first-line breast cancer now recall that the data we expect to receive in 2013 will be the final progression-free survival data and the Ingelheim overall survival data.
And finally.
presentation of data for the Phase 3 trial of enzastaurin as maintenance therapy for patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.
There are also several Phase 3 trials that may produce data in 2013 although presentation of detailed data and medical meetings would likely occur in 2014.
These include the initial Phase 3 trials of our novel basal insulin analogue for both type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
The pivotal trials for our new insulin glargine product ramucirumab as combination therapy for second line gastric cancer.
Our Phase 3 trial for Necitumumab in combination with gemcitabine and Cisplatin for first line squamous non-small cell lung cancer and the initial trials of edivoxetine as adjunctive therapy for major depressive disorder.
In total we’ll have Phase 3 data readout or detailed data presentations on 8<sup>th</sup> of our 13 Phase III assets.
As Travis mentioned in 2013 we could have up to five regulatory filings 3 diabetes assets empagliflozin which has been submitted in the U.S.
and Europe dulaglutide and our new insulin glargine product and two oncology assets ramucirumab as monotherapy for second-line gastric cancer for which we’ve initiated a rolling submission as well as enzastaurin for diffused large B-cell lymphoma.
Other key events to watch for in 2013.
We plan to initiate another pivotal trial of solanezumab in patients with mild Alzheimer’s disease.
In August we’ll have the U.S.
District Court trial for the Alimta method-of-use patent and in December we’ll lose U.S.
exclusivity for Cymbalta.
Now moving on to guidance.
We’re pleased with our solid first quarter results and are encouraged that we’ve been able to offset the Zyprexa patent expiration through growth and other key products and regions.
As mentioned in our press release we’re not changing our EPS guidance for the full year.
However we are updating a couple of line items.
Effective July 1st we expect to see an increase in the Puerto Rico excise tax.
This has the effect of increasing our cost of goods sold and decreasing our tax rate.
Giving the dollar amount of gross margin our gross margin guidance of approximately 78% of revenue is unchanged.
However given the smaller dollar amount of pre-tax income we’ve lowered our GAAP and non-GAAP tax rates by 50 basis points.
We’ve also updated our R&amp;D expense and OID guidance.
The range of R&amp;D expense increased $100 million offset by $100 million increase to other income.
This change is due to the impact of empagliflozin submission milestones that hit R&amp;D expense not OID as our original guidance assumed.
While all other line items including EPS guidance are unchanged I do want to mention two factors affecting our business.
First we received updated information showing higher-than-expected utilization of our products and Medicare Part D thus increasing the impact of the donut hole coverage gap to Lilly.
Second significant devaluation of the yen is reducing the U.S.
dollar value of sales from our Japanese affiliates.
We anticipate that the headwinds from increased cost associated with the Affordable Care Act and those Japanese yen devaluation will be mitigated by our continued focus to drive growth in our marketed product portfolio and by our efforts to reduce expenses.
As a result we are not changing our revenue or EPS guidance for the year.
Slide 14 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS for 2012 and the associated growth rates from these numbers to our 2013 guidance.
You can see that our GAAP EPS has benefited substantially from income-related to exenatide.
Now in closing we’ll continue to focus relentlessly executing our strategy; to replenish and advance our pipeline; to drive growth in our on-pattern brands and in key growth areas of Elanco Japan and emerging markets; and to drive productivity grains across all areas of our value chain.
We’ve designed this strategy to observe the effect of our pattern losses while funding the dividend at least at its current level as well as the R&amp;D that will drive our future growth.
This has allowed us to return nearly $2 billion to shareholders in the last year on top of the dividend.
Our financial performance this quarter positions us well to continue to meet or exceed our mid-term financial projections of minimum annual revenue of at least $20 billion net income of at least $3 billion and operating cash flow of at least $4 billion.
We submitted empagliflozin in the U.S.
and Europe.
We’ve initiated a rolling submission for ramucirumab and we have the potential for up to three more submissions this year two more in diabetes and one more in oncology.
And we continue to generate and disseminate important data that will help investors and analysts to better gauge our longer term growth potential with much more data to come over the course of 2013 and 2014.
We believe this pipeline with drive strong growth post YZ.
We’re confident in our strategy and in our ability to successfully navigate our patent expirations and emerge with even greater strength and capacity to drive growth.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Now we’ll take your questions.
Operator first caller please? (Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from the line of Tim Anderson of Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead  This is Bruce (inaudible) in for Tim Anderson.
I have two questions please.
Your tax rate guidance for 2013 is now on 19%.
Previously you have said that your tax rate would rise to the mid 20% in the 2012 to 2014 timeframe because of patent expiries.
Is that mid 20% tax rate guidance to relevant for 2014? And my second question is you mention that you expect to have Phase 3 data for enzastaurin this year.
Can you give us your overall thoughts on the product? Great Bruce thank you for the questions.
We’ll have Derica to take your first question Jan just go into the second one then.
Derica? Hi Bruce.
In regard to our tax rate guidance just a reminder we said that in our mid-term guidance that our tax rate would be no higher than the mid 20s meaning of that’s the maximal we expected to go.
Fortunately we’ve been very successful thus far and through the management of operations as well as where our cash has been generated our income has been generated around the world and we’d be able to stay in that low 20s.
As you see here in the first quarter we’re also benefiting from how the impact of the U.S.
R&amp;D tax credit both in terms of the full effect of ‘12 being recorded in the first quarter of ‘13 as well as the resumption of the R&amp;D tax credit in the Q1 itself.
So we still believe that we’ll be able to say below that mid 20s at least.
And we’re also at the same time well able to bring back sufficient cash to the U.S.
to fund that U.S.
operations.
Great thanks Derica.
Jan? Right so w are evaluating and the story in the Phase 3 trial for the diffused large B-cell lymphoma and the inherited test for the potential to present relapse in patients following standard of care which is called R-CHOP for this particular form of new format.
We have completed the enrollment and are expecting data very soon and the primary end point is disease free survival.
If positive we could potentially have an NDA submission later this year.
Great thanks Jan.
Paul we have the next caller please.
Next from ISI Group Mark Schoenebaum.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Thanks a lot for taking my question.
I really appreciate it.
I think Animal Health is in the room correct? Absolutely we’ve got Jeff Simmons here with us.
We’ve got the expert.
Okay fantastic.
So maybe I will ask you an animal health question if I may.
Absolutely.
I saw in the press release it looks like your ex-U.S.
growth were slowed down considerably this quarter and as you said it was consistent with industry trends out of the couple of other companies.
I was wondering if you could go into any detail specifically what’s driving the ex-U.S.
weakness whether or not you think that’s kind of one-time-ish or whether or not you think we should kind of be rethinking ex-U.S.
growth rates in general.
I mean the second part of the question is a little bit off the beaten path but obviously in China what’s going on with the bird flu? Do you anticipate this ever do you anticipate this having any impact on the animal health business over the near-term or over the long-term? I thank you very much.
Okay thank you Mark.
Thanks for the questions.
I would say overall if you look at our business and the animal health business especially the food animal side OUS we are operating in the business that is cyclical in nature.
Meat [noggin] eggs cycle relative to demand.
Those cycles have now become a lot more global as there is more global companies connected to this supply and demand.
And you see this every three to five years you see a cycle happen and you see that with the public meat companies as well.
Today currently meat supply is exceeding demand in certain parts of the world and that’s creating we believe a driver in the slowing of this industry growth.
I don’t want to forecast the severity of it or the length of it but we do see this merge relative to Q1 2013 versus Q1 of 2012.
I will speak on behalf of Elanco and say that even despite this we continue to see our strategy that built on diversity that’s built on animal food animal therapy and productivity on the food animal side.
We continue to expect that Elanco will deliver robust growth for 2013 and in the coming years and exceed industry growth rate as we have in the past five years.
Now if we look at bird flu I would say that similar nature you see in these different flus in different emerging diseases occur we had bluetongue in Europe a few years we had a bird flu occur in Mexico a few years ago and this one in China.
What we need to look for is that do anything to soften the demand of key protein groups like poultry and pork in the markets like China.
So this will be something that we will be watching and assessing.
Our recent investment in China Animal Healthcare will bring us closer to that marketplace which will help us understand that marketplace which is a key marketplace.
So the big impact is – watching the impact that it has on overall consumer demand.
And the impact this quarter Mark would have been nil to our business.
No impact on bird flus.
Paul next caller please.
Next we’ll go to the line of Gregg Gilbert of Bank of America Thanks good morning.
Jan I was hoping if you could walk us through the specific mechanics for the ramucirumab rolling submission and gastric and why that path was decide upon.
And then for Derica it looks like pricing negativity in Europe was quite good this quarter compared to prior quarters.
I don’t want to get carried away but is this new inflection point or this in specific sort of one-time things there? And lastly if Dave is on the call U.S.
bio the commercial footprint is it right sized for the foreseeable future given you current products as well as your expectations for…  Gregg you still there? Apologies your line is open.
Can you here me?   Yeah.
So we don’t have Dave with us on the call.
So I think we’ll go ahead and have Jan handle your first question with regards to ramucirumab and then Derica you can handle the last two.
Great thanks.
All right.
So as you know we have completed regard trial for ramucirumab and monotherapy for second line gastric cancer where we showed overall survival.
The Fast Track status has been granted and we have initiated a rolling submission starting with the preclinical module and the plan is to have everything submitted before the end of the year for ram.
Okay.
Gregg in regards to price as you saw in Europe we were down 1% in the first quarter.
Typically we’re somewhere in that minus 2% to 3% that’s about what would be.
We did see in the first quarter an adjustment for the transfer of exenatide rights outside the U.S.
And then if you’re looking back at the fourth quarter you saw that we had more of a 7% reduction and that was really for the year and that was driven by the impact of the Zyprexa patent loss in Europe but typically we’re in that minus 2% to 3% pricing impact in the European region.
And then the question on if what this action yields that the commercial footprints right sized going forward?  Clearly we believe we’re right sized great for the moment given the mix and the composition of the portfolio that we have in hand today.
Now as we look at the Phase 3 pipeline and depending upon what emerges I think in the primary care will find what you may find is that we may have to build some presence as some new therapeutic areas where we haven’t competed previously such as autoimmune great in the neurologist.
Those are all possible areas of expansion as we think about our U.S.
sales force footprint.
But at the moment on the primary care side we think we’re properly positioned.
And Travis you’ve got an add on maybe to complement Jan’s response? Yeah Gregg I’ll just give you one more detail on rolling submission.
We just need to complete some typical product stability work.
And as Jan mentioned we do anticipate being able to complete that work by the end of the year.
Great thank you.
Paul next caller please.
From JPMorgan we’ll go to the line of Chris Schott.
Please go ahead.
All right great thanks very much.
Just a two questions first going back to Elanco you said you mentioned these kind of three to five year cycles.
Can you just give us a sense of – typically when we see one of these how long until growth normalizes? Is this something that’s going to take a couple quarters to play out or something longer than that? And maybe when you’re talking about I wonder if you are bit interested in giving us your kind of best guess at what industry growth might look like in 2013 versus where you’ve been historically.
Final question just shifting gears just some quick thoughts on the FDA’s review of pancreatic abnormality seen with the DPP-4 and GLP-1 category just any thoughts you might have there appreciate it.
Okay.
Great thanks Chris.
We’ll have Jeff obviously handle your first question and then either Travis or Jan I think will go ahead and handle the second one.
Jeff.
Thanks Chris.
It’s hard to predict on length of cycles and severity.
I think you’re seeing less severe swings and cycles being a little shorter given the way that companies are able to impact their supply chain of meat and swing to these demands are much quicker.
So I would say that I think you’re going to see them last in a probably shorter period of time and less severe but it’s hard to predict.
And then I would say it’s going to be a challenge this year to predict growth rates again where we’re going to continue to look at robust growth rates and continue to exceed industry growth rates.
But I think this year will be a challenging year to predict the exact growth rate number at this time.
Jan?  Right.
So the question about pancreas effects of DPP-4s and GLP-1s have been debated for sometime and we should remember first here that diabetes patients in general has the higher risk for pancreatitis and also then in the label for DPP-4s.
There is an increased risk of pancreatitis dimension.
The – in relation to dulaglutide we are still analyzing the data which will be presented at the ADA in June.
But so far we have not seen any established quarter link between the dulaglutide and pancreatitis nor pancreas cancer.
We are carefully watching this area and as you know safety is very high on our agenda.
Thank you.
Paul if you can go to the next caller please.
From Cowen we’ll go to the line of Steve Scala.
Please go ahead.
Well thank you just a few questions.
First just to be clear just a rolling filing of ramucirumab and gastric and provide that’s a head to head study versus chemo will be part of the filing.
Second the ramucirumab breast cancer trial I believe has done will you top line the data in the first half of this year.
And then second then lastly that the 10-K had stated at the Alimta 2022 patent has now referred to as a vitamin dosage regimen patent as opposed to a concomitant nutrition supplement use patent to confirm to legal strategy.
What should we gleam on legal strategy from this change and why was it made so late in the process? Thank you.
Okay Steve thanks for the questions.
I will go ahead and handle these feel free to chime in the table if you like.
So as we mentioned earlier you’re seeing us not proceed with the submission of ramucirumab and second line gastric monotheraphy without waiting for the data in that second line trial and they’ll get the regulators determined as the data that we have is sufficient for them to go ahead in the time.
As we mentioned in the past we’re very encouraged by the data and it’s typical to treat cancer and line of therapy where there are no approved agency yet in the U.S.
and Europe.
In terms of the ram breast cancer timing we have talked about having something in mid-year or summer of the two different ways we’ve described it.
Appreciate the question.
I am trying to nail down a little bit more closely when that might occur.
We’ll have to monitor receive the actually occurrence of the event that are necessary to get the final PFS as well as the interim OS.
I would indicate probably not very likely that that would occur in time to lead to a topline in the first half but clearly we stick with sort of this mid-year summer time type of guidance that we said we’re having data internally and then very quickly getting some kind of communication out of the Street would be our intention.
And then there is really nothing I think to read into the change in our SEC filing in terms of the way that the method of use path and the concomitant use of vitamin B12 and folic acid with pemetrexed as described.
I think it was just some shoring up of the other language based on reviews with internal counsel.
So Paul if we can go to the next caller please.
From Goldman Sachs we’ll go to the line of Jami Rubin.
Please go ahead.
Jami are you there? If your line is muted Jami please un-mute hearing nothing.
We’ll go to the next caller.
Okay Paul if you could make sure you pull Jami in as soon as he can then we should be able to reconnect that would be great.
Very good.
From Morgan Stanley we’ll go to David Risinger.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
So I was particularly impressed with the SG&amp;A controls this quarter.
It seems like you made the rationalizing the sales force earlier than I expected with the main patent expiration pressures from Cymbalta and Evista next year.
So this quarter the expense level for SG&amp;A was $1.65 billion.
Should we assume that that reflects the appropriate level of spending? Or do you plan to take the run rate of SG&amp;A down in the near-term Derica? And then just one quick financial question for the China Animal Health deal how much incremental annual revenue does that add and how much of that move the needle for your overall global animal health business please?  Great.
Thanks for the questions David and we have Derica will handle both of those.
Okay David in regards to SG&amp;A just to remind in the guidance that we provided at the beginning of the year it included the actions that you’ve seen culminating in terms of us announcing here today in terms of the U.S.
restructuring of our sales force.
So all of these things have contemplated in the forward-looking statements that we’ve made in regards to kind of the future we believe we have again the right sales force footprint to accommodate the portfolio mix that we have at the moment.
The biggest key is going to see how the pipeline plays out and the future impact that has there you would expect that in terms of as we progressed through the year and if we march closer towards December [11] when we lose Cymbalta that you will see us further pull back on some of our promotional activities behind Cymbalta such as DTC but until that when exactly that will happen we will not disclose.
And we will constantly going to monitor the effect that is having and obviously as we also get into the fourth quarter you will see us beginning to have to deal with either both by returns reserve for Cymbalta and you could see wholesale is beginning to the stock so these are the kinds of things we will be monitoring as we process through the year to understand what are our promotional mix should be behind that brand.
And Dave in terms of the revenues that we’d be bringing in from the investment and the Chinese healthcare company Animal Healthcare company we don’t anticipated this time based on the structure and the minority stake that we have taken but that would lead to equity accounting and therefore any particular impact on our financials.
I also would say if you look historically on your first question SG&amp;A is typically significantly lower in the first quarter of the year than it is in the second third or fourth quarters.
If you force out our SG&amp;A guidance for the full year subtracting than the SG&amp;A for Q1 you will see that we still do in total expect you are going to see higher levels of SG&amp;A spend on average in these next three quarters than you saw in the first quarter of the year.
Again we will have to monitor our progress both on rightsizing our detailing and marketing activities as well progress you make on cost controls and update guidance appropriately as we go through the year.
But currently we still are expecting that $7.1 billion and $7.4 billion in SG&amp;A for the full year.
So Paul I think we can go to the next caller please.
Yes.
We got Jami Rubin back from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey I’ll try that again thank you.
Just I may have missed it but did you update us on the solanezumab trial design your new Phase 3 trial in moderate patients and if you haven’t when might you update us? And then secondly a question for Derica I was wondering if you anticipate any impact from sequestration and as you know the 2% price cut has been applied across the Board and wondering what you plan to do to make sure that these hospitals are not diverting sales away from Medicare Part B to hospital based products? I mean if you plan to discount it et cetera.
If you are expecting any sort of impact at all? Thanks very much Great Jami.
And thanks for getting back in queue and thanks for the questions.
Jan if you want to go ahead and take the first question on update for the sola trial and then we’ll obviously have Travis comments as you close to that.
And then Derica you’re [if you just chime] and if you’d like on the second.
Okay.
Let me just start by saying that we are going to test mild Alzheimer's Disease not moderate patients and that is based on the previous data than from EXPEDITION I and II where it was the tool mild patient population that’s actually had a significant benefit particularly on commission and the slight effect those on function.
What we are doing currently is that we have ongoing discussions with regulators globally to prepare them for EXPEDITION III which we plan to start during Q3 and that is what we can say for the moment.
Yeah.
Actually before going to that next part of Jami’s question so Jami clearly at some point prior to the first patient visit we’ll be posting the study design to clinicaltrials.gov.
And I think we’ll be looking for an appropriate way to either reactively or proactively depending on the timing of this discuss that trial design with those of you and in the investment community that are instead more details.
Travis? Hey Jami.
We do understand that sequestration has introduced some challenges for oncologist with regards to treating patients that’s in Medicare system.
At this time we are not seeing a significant impact to our Alimta sales but obviously we are going to continue to monitor that situation and – we’ll continue to work towards making sure our patients have access to into.
Thanks.
Paul.
We can go to the next caller please.
Yes.
From Leerink we’ll go the line of Seamus Fernandez.
Please go ahead Oh thanks very much.
So as I look at the P&amp;L overall I’m just wondering if you guys could talk a little bit about comparisons as you know versus some of peers as it relates to the inclusion of amortization.
If you’ve done any studies of how much is incorporated or included in Lilly’s P&amp;L versus others.
There’s obviously a pretty widespread and what is see is wider spread between your operating cash flow and your adjusted earnings versus some of your peers.
So may be you can just kind of give us little color on that Derica.
And then separately can you just update us on any of the Phase 2 products that you sort of see rolling through the back half of this year or going forward that we should be particularly focused on.
Thanks very much.
Great Seamus thanks for the question.
Derica has actually had actually has the team looking at some of those P&amp;L comp so I’ll take the first part of your question and Jan if you would like to do the second.
So increasingly over the last few years we’ve seen this situation changed prior you have the minority of the companies that would be excluding from their non-GAAP results things like amortization expenses or stock-based compensation.
I think as you’re well aware of that list of companies has continued to grow and probably now constitutes the majority of our peers.
We continue to believe that if analysts want to know the cash generation that we’ve accomplished in a given period has already financial statement that gives you those details.
And then making those kinds of adjustments to non-GAAP EPS are not necessarily what we would view as the right way to use non-GAAP but again we’re very cognizant that other companies are doing that.
We try to make sure that in our SEC filings.
We provide the information so the analyst can see how much that amortization expense was for us in a given period in the past I believe we’ve only been doing that in our annual filing.
I think going forward you’ll see that we’re doing that also in our quarterly filings as well.
I think this quarter it was probably somewhere in the $170 million or $180 million but I need to consult with our Q to see the exact number $150 million I think was the number here.
Jan? Okay here is an update on some of the programs in Phase 2 and let me start with glucagon receptor antagonist which is an oral agent in type 2 diabetes where we have Phase 2b data showing them glucose lowering et cetera so that’s next generation agent but potentially in for that the oral part and of type 2 diabetes.
And we will present some further data this year on this agent.
Then the next one is tabalumab a monoclonal antibody against Sclerostin which have been shown to be a very potent anabolic agent and we will present some data in May for this agents it has unique anabolic than building properties also compare to current products on the market like Forteo.
The next one is our oral base inhibitor beta-secretase inhibitor which is in Phase II trials actually then for carrying forward at Phase III with those ranging and also looking at some safety aspects this as you know the beta-secretase is an intriguing target which recently has been associated by genetics and to be active protective against Alzheimer's disease dementia and we hope to mimic this by this all other regions.
And finally in the oncology area we have a CDK 4/6 oral agent which has been tested in various tumors including mantle cell lymphoma where this mechanism has been particularly implied for driving the tumor growth.
Okay.
Thanks John.
Paul if you can go to the next caller.
The last caller in the queue is Marc Goodman of UBS.
Yes good morning.
So Derica can you help us quantify the impact of the donut hole and the ND valuation that you had mentioned earlier.
And second with respect to following up to Dave’s question around the SG&amp;A and what was kind of in the quarter not in the quarter and the changes in the reps I mean was that impacted in the first quarter or should we assume that that’s going to start in the second quarter because you just announced it recently.
And then third question is can you talk about the (inaudible) market it seems to be a slowdown in prescription spare over the past couple of months wondering how you view that market and how you view that market and how you think about the SGLT2’s positioning in the diabetes space? Thanks.
Okay.
Mark thanks for the question.
Derica? I’ll take the first two Mark.
In regards to the impact of the yen as well as the Affordable Care Act of the doughnut hole the yen as you saw if you look at our Japanese growth the devaluation cost was 13 percentage points in growth.
And so unless you see movement in yen to appreciate then you would expect that that’s going to continue for the reminder of the year.
In regards to the impact of he doughnut hole and really more holistically the Affordable Care Act we’re probably seeing an impact somewhere in the $100 million to $150 million higher than we had anticipated when we started the year.
And to your third question in regards to the U.S.
restructuring you should anticipate seeing the impact of that restructuring probably more likely in Q3 versus Q2.
Travis? And Mark regards to I guess two more questions so I think you’ve got a total of five in there so that’s good work.
Once where the DPP-4 market yeah we’re (inaudible) with regards to TRX.
We are as you mentioned beginning to see a slowdown in the overall market.
But we’re very encouraged by the progress we’ve made with regards to Tradjenta.
We’re now seeing around 20% need of brand which is comparing favorably and we’ll continue to work towards increasing access for that product.
With regards to the positioning of empagliflozin within the diabetes as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we’re encouraged by the independence of the both beta-cell function and insulin resistance from that mechanism and believe that SGLT-2 class will have or isn’t encouraging class as we filed in both U.S.
and European regulatory agency.
So we believe that will have a very strong positioning and in particularly due to the mechanism and potentially the combination with other products.
Great.
Just to be clear Ilissa have mentioned to me when Derica was talking about the additional $100 million to $150 million impact from the Medicare part you don’t know holders to be for that for the full year as we talk about sort of changes to we’ve had in our previous guidance.
We would have obviously a much smaller impact on that in this particular quarter.
And okay are there any other callers? Okay by the way we – regards to Mark you would also for the restructuring of the U.S.
sales force we actually accrued our provision for that in the fourth quarter of ‘12 Yeah.
And as you think about the yen impact recall that that particular geography contributes over $2 billion of revenue for us and that’s the rate as Derica mentioned that are currently there.
You’re probably looking at 15% to 20% devaluation sort of depending on where the yen has from here.
So obviously you’re talking about a $300 million to $400 million headwind at the top line on revenue again for the full year.
Paul we have any more callers that have joined the queue? Yes from Morningstar Damien Conover.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks for taking the question.
I just wanted to ask question about some of the recent announcements of expanding the insulin manufacturing facilities.
As you ready to launch your next generation of insulin products I want to know how much you can leverage your current manufacturing capacity and how much you have potentially build out for these next launches? And then secondly I think you just talked about having a bio similar version of its own Lantus.
I just want to see your comments on if they were to come through just how that might change the context of the market.
Thanks you.
Great Damien we’ll have John to take your first question I’ll go ahead and take the second.
John? Damien we talked in recent months and years about manufacturing investment from two aspects our insulin portfolio.
One is the active ingredient manufacturing process which is the biosynthetic piece.
Investments that we’ve made and development strategies that we’ve began to put in place number of years ago will enable us to essentially use the existing footprint that we currently have in place for manufacturing the active ingredient that goes with the Humulin and Humalog to not only continue to manufacture those medicines but also the our novel basal insulin and our insulin Glargine product without appreciable additional investment there is some additional investment required but it’s far less than if we had to build our new plan and it enables to meet what we expect to be demand for those products through the decade.
Now we’ve recently very recently announced a further expansion in our drug product manufacturing part of the equation which is essentially additional capacity for manufacturing cartridges that really reflects growth in demand we now manufacture those cartridge products both in we will be manufacturing them both in the U.S.
and in Europe.
And even as we drive productivity from those operations I think that’s going to be more of a function of market demand as new products come to market and there is a greater demand in countries like China for these products you are going to see us continue to make those kinds of investments but those are relatively smaller capital investments than investing and a plan to make new [API].
Great thanks John.
And Damien in terms of Sanofi being involved and doing their own biosimilar version of Lantus I can’t say that we are aware of specific plans that they talked about to do that but we are aware of we maybe referring to as if they are developing a more concentrated formula at Lantus and they’ve stated publicly I think that could have a different PKPD profile time action profile and they’ve highlighted that as one of their later stage development program.
In the past we have said and we continue to believe that overall glargine molecule will continue to be widely used throughout this decade and we would expect to be able to play quite competitively given our manufacturing expertise and capacity our device expertise and capacity and then obviously our commercial presence within that overall glargine space but we would anticipate that branded Lantus whether it’s the current formulation or potentially this more concentrated forms that would get to market we’ll probably have roughly half of that overall glargine market would be our best estimate.
We’ve been expect to compete very well in the novel insulin space hopefully if we get approval of our novel basal insulin analog the name is actually improve upon the characteristics and the benefits provided to patients from the current [basals] that are available.
Paul we have any other callers on the line up.
There is a follow up from David Risinger of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Yeah thanks very much.
So just going back to the SG&amp;A question and you provided a lot of clarity for 2013 so that’s much appreciated I am just trying to understand going forward for 2014 directionally whether the SG&amp;A is likely go down in 2014 or be flattish? So that’s what I’m after to understand what the incremental SG&amp;A reductions are for 2014 to offset the revenue decline for Cymbalta and Evista.
So any color on flat or down in 2014 would be much appreciated.
Hi David this is Derica again we are really not in a position to give specific guidance for 2014 at this stage I still believe the biggest determine of that is still going to be what emerges from our pipeline clearly… Okay.
We will be in a position this year to potentially submit up to five products for regulatory approval.
Depending upon the outcomes of those submissions and when we see the approval there could be incremental spend that would be behind some of those brands if we’re successful but until we know that it’s very difficult to predict at this state.
What I can’t say is that today with the actions we’ve taken and that we’ve announced here most recently we’re very consistent and in line with both the near-term and medium term guidance that we have put out here in terms of the actions that was necessary to make sure that we meet those minimum of $20 billion of revenue $3 billion in income and $4 billion in cash flow.
And we see our actions very consistent with that and we’re actually a little bit ahead of what we thought we would be at this stage.
Thanks Derica.
Paul next caller? No one currently in the queue.
Okay fantastic.
With that we will go ahead and conclude the call.
I would like to thank all of you for dialing in and to participate and I appreciate your interest in Eli Lilly.
We’re very pleased with our performance in the first quarter and the progress we’re marking with the pipeline.
To that point I want to remind you that coming up at the ADA on June 24 we’ll have a Investor meeting to discuss results we’ll be presented at ADA for both dulaglutide and empagliflozin and then also to put on your calendar a reminder that on October 3 here in Indianapolis we’ll be hosting our investment community update the last one of which we had in June of 2011 in New York City for addition to your regular scheduled earnings call please put those on your calendars we hope you can join us and we’ll keep it praises with our continued progress as we move forward during the year have a great day.
Thank you and this call will be available for replay after 11 am Eastern today through May 1st at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive Replay system by dialing 1-800-475-6701 or international 1-320-365-3844 and entering the access code 287572.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Q2 Earnings Call 2013.
At this time all lines are in a listen-only mode.
Later there will be an opportunity for your questions and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I’ll now turn the conference over to Phil Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for Eli Lilly and Company’s second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
I’m Phil Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are John Lechleiter our Chairman President and CEO; Derica Rice our Chief Financial Officer; Dr.
Jan Lundberg President of Lilly Research Laboratories; Enrique Conterno President of our Diabetes Business; as well as Ilissa Rassner and Travis Coy from the Investor Relations team.
During this conference call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on slide three and those outlined in our latest Forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
We’re very pleased with the solid financial results we delivered in the second quarter of 2013.
Strong performance of key products and ongoing cost containment efforts have allowed us to raise our full-year financial guidance and continued to place us on track to meet or exceed our financial minimum goals through 2014.
Let me begin today’s call to review key events that have taken place since our last earnings call.
In clinical news I’ll start by reviewing some of the highlights from recent medical conferences.
At the American Diabetes Association Scientific sessions we present a detailed data from the initial Phase 3 trials for both dulaglutide and in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim for empagliflozin.
Along with Incyte at the European League Against Rheumatism’s Annual European Congress of Rheumatology we presented 52-week efficacy and safety data from the Phase 2b trial of baricitinib in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
And at the meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology we announced that the PRONOUNCE study comparing an Alimta/carboplatin doublet regimen to a paclitaxel/carboplatin/bevacizumab triplet regimen did not achieved its endpoint of improved progression-free survival without grade four adverse events.
In other clinical news we announced that the Phase 3 trial for enzastaurin did not meet its primary endpoint for improved disease-free survival in patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma who are high risk for relapse and we stop the Phase 2 study for our BACE inhibitor being investigated as a once-daily treatment to slow the progression of Alzheimer's disease.
On the regulatory front the marketing authorization application for our new insulin glargine product was accepted for review by the European Medicines Agency and we received approval in the EU for Strattera for the treatment of adults with ADHD.
Strattera is the first product indicated for adults with ADHD across the EU regions.
And from a commercial perspective we’re disappointed with the Centers for Medicare &amp; Medicaid Services draft decision that proposed Coverage with Evidence Development for the use of beta-amyloid Positron Emission Tomography imaging agents which includes our approved product Amyvid.
We believe that insufficient Medicare coverage would be a significant set back for patients and the Alzheimer's disease community.
Now let’s turn to our financial performance.
First I’ll provide some brief comments about our GAAP results and then discuss a few non-GAAP measures which we believe provides insights into the underlying trends in our business.
As you can see on slide 6 worldwide revenue increased 6% as growth in key products including Cymbalta Cialis Tradjenta Animal Health Axiron Effient Insulin and Forteo more than offset lower Zyprexa revenue following patent expirations and for exenatide revenue following the transition of commercial rights to Amylin.
Excluding Zyprexa outside of Japan and exenatide the rest of our worldwide revenue grew 8.5%.
Gross margins percent of revenue increased 80 basis points from 79.5% to 80.3%.
The increase in gross margin percent was driven by higher prices and production volumes partially offset by the impact of foreign exchange rates on international inventories sold.
Excluding the FX effect on international inventories sold from both 2012 and 2013 gross margin as a percent of revenue increased 2 percentage point from 77.9% in Q2 of 2012 to 79.9% in Q2 of 2013.
As in past quarters we’ve included a supplementary slide providing our gross margin percent for the last 10 quarters with and without this FX effect.
Now let’s move onto the non-GAAP measures provided on slide 7.
This quarters’ total operating expense defined as the sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A declined 2%.
Within operating expenses marketing selling and administrative expenses fell 3% while R&amp;D expenses grew 1%.
The reduction in marketing selling and administrative expenses reflects our ongoing cost containment efforts which were partially offset by higher litigation costs.
Other income and deductions provided income of $11.9 million in the second quarter of 2013 compared to an expense of $16.5 million in the second quarter of 2012.
This difference is primarily due to a gain on the sale of the Lilly Asian Ventures investment.
Our tax rate was 20.5% this quarter a decrease of 1.6 percentage points from Q2 2012.
The decrease in the effective tax rate reflects the reinstatement of the R&amp;D tax credit in the U.S.
that went into effect in January of 2013.
At the bottom line our non-GAAP EPS increased a robust 40% to $1.16.
Slide 8 provides the same information on a year-to-date basis while slide 9 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS.
Additional details about our reported earnings are available in today’s earnings press release.
Now I will turn the call over to Ilissa.
Thanks Phil.
As you can see on slide 10 the total revenue increase of 6% for the quarter was driven by a favorable price impact of 6% and a 2% increase in volume partially offset by a negative foreign exchange impact of 2%.
By geography you all noticed that U.S.
Pharma sales increased by 14% driven by price as volume was essentially flat.
In Europe the volume decline of 4% was due to the Zyprexa patent expiration and a transfer of exenatide commercial rights outside of the U.S.
to Amylin Pharmaceuticals.
Excluding Zyprexa and exenatide from both 2012 and 2013 volumes for the rest of our European products was up almost 3%.
Turning to Japan our revenues were once again significantly impacted by the weakening of the Yen.
The 18% decline form foreign exchange and 3% price declines were partially offset by strong double-digit volume growth of 10%.
Volume growth was primarily driven by Forteo Strattera Tradjenta and Evista.
As for emerging markets which is embedded in rest of the world revenue grew 5% this quarter or 7% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Within emerging markets China continue to register double-digit revenue growth up 18% driven by volume growth of 17%.
Elanco Animal Health sales grew 6% this quarter.
In the U.S sales grew 5% due primarily to increased demand of Trifexis.
Out side the U.S sales increased 7% also driven by increased sales of companion animal products.
We continue to expect that Elanco will deliver robust growth for 2013 and in the coming years.
Finally the 17% increase in collaboration and other revenue is due to Tradjenta growth.
Slide 11 illustrates the effect of changes in foreign exchange on our 2013 results.
At the bottom line changes in foreign exchange rates reduced our EPS growth by 12 percentage points.
Excluding FX revenue grew 8% while cost of sales and operating expenses either decrease or grew slower than revenue leading to Q2 reported and non-GAAP EPS growth of 46% and 52% respectively.
Next I’ll provide a brief pipeline update before turning the call over to Derica.
Slide 12 shows our pipeline as of July 15.
Changes since our last earnings call are highlighted with green arrow showing progression and red arrow showing attrition.
As Phil mentioned earlier in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim we announced that our new insulin glargine product was accepted for review by the European Medicines Agency.
We filed the application to the EMA's biosimilar pathway and are excited by the potentials of our basal insulin for the treatment of patients of type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
We also announced plans to stop development of enzastaurin which was being studied as monotherapy in the prevention of relapse in patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.
With respect to earlier stages of the pipeline you’ll see that we began Phase II testing as two small molecules; one for osteoarthritis pain and one for cancer and one biologic a PCSK9 monoclonal antibody for cardiovascular disease.
We also began Phase I testing basically biologics; two for diabetes and one for Alzheimer’s disease.
In addition we terminated development of a Phase II diabetes molecule.
We continue to expect four submissions this year.
In addition to already filing Empagliflozin and our new insulin glargine product built in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim we remain on track to complete the already initiated rolling submissions around for ramucirumab as a single agent biologics therapy in patients with advanced gastric cancer following progression on prior chemotherapy.
As well as the U.S.
and European submission for dulaglutide our GLP-1 receptor agonist for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
We are encouraged by our progress and believe this pipeline positions us for growth post 2014.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Derica to cover some of the remaining key events for 2013 our financial guidance and some closing comments before we open the call for Q&amp;A.
Derica? Thanks Ilissa.
I’ll begin my remarks with slide 13.
2013 is an important year for Lilly.
As you can see from the check marks on this slide we are making progress on our goals.
Let me give you a quick reminder of the potential key events for the remainder of this year as we continue to advance our pipeline and share clinical data that will help you better gauge our growth potential post 2014.
In oncology later this year we hope to present detailed data from the Phase 3 trial of ramucirumab in first-line breast cancer.
Now recall that the data we expect to receive in 2013 will be the final progression-free survival data and the interim overall survival data.
There are also several Phase 3 trials that we expect to produce data in 2013 although presentation of detailed data at medical meetings would likely occur in 2014 or later.
These include the initial Phase 3 trials of our novel basal insulin analogue for both type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
The pivotal trials for our new insulin glargine product ramucirumab as combination therapy for second line gastric cancer.
Our Phase 3 trial for necitumumab in combination with gemcitabine and Cisplatin for first line squamous non-small cell lung cancer and the initial trials of edivoxetine as adjunctive therapy for major depressive disorder.
As Ilissa mentioned earlier in addition to the two Phase III assets empagliflozin and the new insulin glargine products already submitted to regulatory authorities this year.
We expect to have two more regulatory submissions.
Dulaglutide our once-weekly GLP-1 agonist for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and ramucirumab as a single agent biologic therapy in patients with advanced gastric cancer following progression on prior chemotherapy for which we’ve already submitted two of the three modules as part of the rolling submission.
In addition in August we'll have the U.S.
District Court trial for the Alimta method-of-use patents.
In Q3 we’ll initiate EXPEDITION3 a pivotal trial for solanezumab in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease.
During a recent investor call we released the details of this trial design.
And in December we’ll lose U.S.
exclusivity for Cymbalta.
Now turning to our 2013 guidance our solid financial performance has allowed us to raise our full year expectations.
In terms of the individual line items we still project revenue to be between $22.6 billion and $23.4 billion.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue is now projected to be approximately 79%.
As a result of our continued cost containment efforts we’ve narrowed and lowered the forecast for marketing selling and administrative expenses to now be between $7 billion and $7.2 billion.
We have also lowered the high-end of the range of R&amp;D expenses by $100 million which is now forecasted to be between $5.3 billion and $5.5 billion.
OID continues to be in the range of a net deduction of $50 million to a net income of $100 million.
The tax rate is still expected to be approximately 19% driven primarily by strong growth margin performance as well as by lower total operating expenses.
Our non-GAAP EPS is now expected to be in the range of $4.05 to $4.15 per share.
Finally we still expect capital expenditures to be roughly $900 million.
Slide 15 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS for 2013 and the associated growth rates from these numbers to our 2013 guidance.
In closing we are pleased with our financial performance this quarter.
We delivered solid financial results including top line revenue growth and continued cost containment efforts which resulted in strong earnings growth.
We remain committed to our innovation strategy and we believe it will drive growth and expand margins post-2014.
We will diligently execute our strategy by continuing to replenish and advance our pipeline continuing to drive growth in our on-patent brands and in Elanco Japan and emerging markets continuing to drive productivity gains across all areas of our business as demonstrated by our year-to-date financial performance.
And of course we are now preparing to launch a number of new medicines.
The progress we’ve made positions us to meet or exceed our mid-term financial projections through 2014; minimum annual revenue of at least $20 billion net income of at least $3 billion and operating cash flow of at least $4 billion.
We continue to disseminate important data that will help investors and analysts better gauge our long-term growth potential with more to come over the remainder of 2013 and 2014.
And we’ll keep you updated on our continued progress.
We’re confident in our strategy and in our ability to successfully navigate our patent expiration and to emerge with even greater strength and capacity to drive growth.
This concludes our prepared remarks and now we’ll take your questions.
Operator first caller please?  Thank you.
Our first caller is Tony Butler with Barclays Capital.
Go ahead please.
Inc.</strong> Yes thanks very much.
First of all welcome back John and two questions really for Dr.
Lundberg if possible.
One is could you discuss your filing strategy for the insulin glargine in the U.S.
and have you chosen a route that includes BLA? And then second there has been some commentary clearly out of ASCO and even before around VEGF inhibitors and their ability to demonstrate good PFS but very little OS.
You’ve seen this in glioblastoma just [2.1] example and while our recognized ramu is a VEGF-2 can you mechanistically help us understand the difference and why PFS and OS may correlate this time or in fact may not? Thanks very much.
Great Tony thank you for questions.
Since we do have Enrique here who heads up our Diabetes business we’ll have him take the first question on the filing strategy for insulin glargine here in the U.S.
our insulin glargine product I should say in the U.S.
And then Jan will give the (inaudible) question.
Sure.
Tony we are not discussing our regulatory strategy for our insulin glargine product.
As you are aware we have filed in Europe and this has been filed through the EMA by the similar pathway.
That’s what we can share at this time.
Jan? Yeah.
In relation to VEGF our inhibitors and ramu more specifically we did see a correlation for ramu between PFS and overall survival in the monotherapy for second-line gastric cancer and now we need to wait and see if we can repeat that for the other indications.
Thank you.
Kathy next caller please? Thank you.
That will be Gregg Gilbert with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Just have a quick few.
First for Enrique I think the uptick of exenatide in the U.S.
has been pretty robust as well as down in certain European countries.
Has your outlook changed in terms of detailed potential for AMPA? And then for Jan it looks like your CDK 4/6 inhibitor has interesting activity for the data at ASCO but also high rates of diarrhea.
Could you provide some context around that and next step? And Derica a few quarters ago you commented that 2014 EPS consensus was too low.
Do you have any updated comments ready on that given that you said that in press by commenting them? Thanks.
All right Gregg great.
Thanks for the questions.
Enrique you want to start this off? Sure.
So we won’t comment on competitive products but what I can say is as we look at the uptick of these new classes I think it’s early but so far it is encouraging in terms of what we see in terms of adoption by physicians of this product that has been launched both in the U.S.
and Europe.
Okay.
In relation to our CDK 4/6 inhibitor we are very encouraged by the initial data we have seen and now we are doing a variety of tumor expansions.
One advantage of our compound could be that actually it has a safety profile that enables continuous dosing without introduction which the other competitor compounds don’t seem to be able to do.
So even if there maybe some side effects I think we need to see this in comparison to the other agency in the same class.
Gregg in January when I made that comment this is when we were able to as we look at the analysts estimates they were well below our $3 billion guidance that we have put out here.
It’s the minimum that we thought we could achieve through this period.
Now it’s moved up somewhat but we are absolutely still committed as I even said here today that we have to believe we can exceed those minimums that we put out here.
So if you look at our performance here through the first half of 2013 we actually believe we’re on track to at least meet or exceed those goals.
Thanks so much.
Great Cath.
If we could have the next caller please? Certainly.
We have Tim Anderson with Sanford Bernstein.
Go ahead please.
Thank you.
I have a couple of questions.
On slide 13 you talked about potential regulatory submissions in 2013.
Shouldn’t ramucirumab for breast-cancer potentially be on there assuming that the data ends up being positive? And then the second question on Alimta the trial date for the patent challenge drawing closure.
Can you comment on whether settlement with your generic challengers remains a realistic possibility because usually these sorts of things get hammered out ahead of a trial’s start date? Great Tim.
Thanks for the questions.
In terms of over the ramucirumab breast-cancer it would be very difficult to go ahead and have a following package is ready for submission this year.
Clearly if we have positive data that can be very focused on moving as quickly as possible but would not want the expectation that would lead to a filing in 2013 at this point.
Then for the litigations ongoing as we’ve commented in the past we do not have a history of settlement with companies.
You can observe that from past expirations we had with products.
We’ve not commented specifically on our strategy other than to say that we believe that that valid intellectual property that we intent to pursue the whole.
So we’ll keep you posted as that trial progresses obviously through August talks here in Indianapolis on August 19.
So thanks for the question Tim.
If we can go to next caller Cathy? Thank you.
We have Mark Schoenebaum with ISI Group.
Go ahead please.
Thank you for taking my question.
First of all I’d just like to say it’s great to see John back on the saddle.
Congratulations on a speed recovery.
We’re all happy to have you back.
And my questions are number one since we have Enrique on the phone Enrique could you maybe bring us up the speed and as much detail as you’re willing to at least on the DPT-4 situation.
There’s been a lot of at least Wall Street chatter about big discounting going on driven by Lilly.
Can you update us on that and also maybe a broader overview what you’re seeing in the DPT-4 market right now in terms of share for your own drug collaboration with BI as well as overall rate of market growth whether or not that has changed in the last few quarters? Number two I think it’s been Lilly’s position and please correct me if I’m wrong which is why I’m asking the question that for ram in breast that it’s been your position and overall survival benefit is not needed for FDA approval assuming that PFS benefit is clinically meaningful.
I’d like to just get your thoughts and I want to make sure I’m not wrong.
And more of a general question is my third.
At this point now that we’re closing in on Obamacare implementation do you expect any material impact your business in 2014 and then applying 2014 guidance specifically but just in general conceptually any shifts there? Thank you very much.
Great Mark.
Thanks for the questions.
Enrique will start off.
Then I’ll take the ram breast cancer and then we’ll have John talk about the healthcare reforms as we move forward into 2014 additional implementation of some of the aspects of that law.
Sure.
So on the DPT-4 market we have seen a slowdown when we look at this market.
I think it’s important to look at the history and when we look at what’s driving some of that growth it was coming at the expense of both TCDs and to a lesser extent it’s use.
Now the TCD opportunity is really drained out.
So we basically see this as a change in the dynamics of why the DPT-4 markets has slowdown in the U.S.
We still see fairly good growth outside of the U.S.
When it comes to our share I think we are pretty pleased in terms of our performance.
We are gaining share on a consistent basis in most markets including the U.S.
and Japan.
Notably we got the add-on indication in Japan earlier this year which has made us much more competitive in that market and we have seen significant uptick as a result of that.
But we are pleased with our share performance everywhere where we look.
When it comes to rebates I think it’s important to know that as we look at [the agenda] specifically in the U.S.
our Tier 2 access in commercial is 65%.
So that’s not a level of access that I would classify as trying to really compete on pricing.
When we look at our composite access it’s still below that of when we look at both commercial but it’s still below that of when we look at both commercial and it is still below that of some of the leaders in this class.
So we are gaining share despite the fact that we still have opportunities for increased access at the tier 2 level.
Yeah one quick comment in terms of share I know some of you Mark and others on the sell side do follow not only total prescriptions and new prescriptions but also new to brand.
And I think you will see that during this year we’ve actually passed Onglyza on the new to brand.
Share of market that may be a leading indicator of where NRx and then TRx may have in the future so Enrique said we are very pleased with the performance.
In terms of ramucirumab for breast cancer and what's necessary for filing.
There are definitely differences among regulatory bodies in the European Union essentially the main driver will be the progression-free survival data not necessarily the overall survival data.
In the U.S.
as you are alluding to it’s a bit more of holistic equation looking at both the magnitude and significance of the PFS benefit and then what’s being seen in terms of the trend for OS.
I think strictly speaking it doesn’t necessarily need to have a large statistically significant OS benefit if other attributes of the molecule are very strong like the progression-free survival benefit the safety profile et cetera.
So again obviously the best case scenario is you’ve got stats figure result on your survival and it’s not an issue but clearly it doesn’t seem to be a prerequisite and we look rather overall features of the molecule determine the best filing strategy and indicate to you that you should look at the overall safety and efficacy profile to try to gauge likelihood of approval employ the commercial uptake as well.
Johnny will comment on the Affordable Care Act or ‘14.
Sure Mark.
Thank you and thanks to Tony for your kind comments.
I am back.
I am very happy to be back and I’m going full-bore.
With respect to Obamacare I think despite some of the recent changes and challenges that we all know about in terms of implementing that our outlook relative to 2014 has not changed based on from what we have been planning all along and I don’t think right now the implementation of the law is going to have any material impact on our business next year.
Okay.
Kathy next caller please.
Thank you.
Next will be Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
And John I let go sentiments already discussed on the call that really great to have you back and thank goodness everything turned out okay.
A question for you and a question for Derica.
Derica can you I mean obviously you guys are doing a great job executing on your goals to leverage SG&amp;A can you give us a sense for how far you are in your overall restructuring plans where you are with U.S.
restructuring and how much further you can go and where that stands globally outside the U.S.
because year-on-year we will see about $500 million decline in SG&amp;A following about $350 million decline the year before.
So obviously to hit the $3 billion number we need to see continued aggressive cuts in SG&amp;A I’m just wondering sort of big picture where you are in the magnitude of that change? And then John if you could talk about BD activity just curious to know what your appetite we’re starting to see BD picking up across the sector here and there and just wondering given what you face over the next couple of years what your appetite is? Thanks very much.
Good morning Jamie.
This is Derica.
As you recall in April we announced further steps in the restructuring of our U.S.
commercial operations where we essentially reduced the size of our U.S.
sales force by about 30%.
And we indicated at that time that the savings on a full year annual rate should be somewhere between $200 million to $250 million.
Now we’ve just – that’s now complete.
So some of that may show up in the second half of the year but we’ll get the full year impact starting in 2014.
We will continue to look for opportunities to further refine and streamline our business operations.
As you also saw from our results we got really good leverage at the gross margin line and some of that was priced but all of those – some of it was driven by the efficiency of our manufacturing operations our plans are running all out in terms of full growth in as well as doing very good job of expense management.
When we think about 2014 also bear in mind that not just on the SG&amp;A line but also in terms of the R&amp;D line we are in the midst of completing some very large and expensive trials.
As those roll of between 2013 and 2014 that gives us some relief on our R&amp;D line as well.
So this is why we are extremely confident that we can achieve those minimum goals that we put out there for 2014 in terms of Eli’s achieving $33 billion in net income.
And very much the performance we’ve seen year-to-date says that we’re absolutely on track to get there.
Thanks Derica.
Jamie this is John.
Again thank you for your kind wishes there.
With respect to business development let me put it in a couple of buckets.
I think first of all we’ve probably been most active in the Animal Health space where since about the middle of the last decade we sort of have done a deal a year to sort of add to an augment our core Animal Health business in addition to getting good strong organic growth.
So I think you should expect that we’re going to continue to be aggressive with respect to business development at a still a fairly modest scope and scale to help a $2 billion business today get to $3 billion and $4 billion beyond that.
We think that that’s a great opportunity for our company.
With respect to the Pharma part of the business we continue to be vigilant obviously and on the lookout for technology that we think could supplement or augment what we currently have coming out of our own pipeline.
I think our greatest challenge in next few years is to make sure that despite the headwinds we face in patent expirations we’re able to adequately fund the completion of these Phase III trials and make sure we have good launches it’s what we hope will be a number of products as we come to the end of this patent expiration period.
I think if there’s a wish list of sorts it would be in my mind a license deal or a smaller kind of acquisition that could give us access to sales revenue in our Bio-Medicines business between now and say 2017.
Obviously that was so hard to come by but we continue to be quite active in looking at these things.
We’re still not interested in large scale M&amp;A and our investors should not expect that.
Thanks John.
Kathy next caller please? Thank you.
Next we have Steve Scala with Cowen.
Go ahead please?  Oh thank you.
I have several questions.
First on Cymbalta what was the magnitude of this favorable wholesaler buying patterns and does it really expect returns to commence before the patent expiration? So why is the company allowing wholesalers to buy extra stock now that’s the first question.
Secondly for Dr.
Lundberg so Lilly stopped development of its base inhibitor given molecule specific toxicity would you share with us what aspect or feature of the molecule led to the toxicity.
And then lastly what products steal the 15% contribution from price in the U.S.
in the second quarter? Thank you.
Great.
Thanks Steve.
I think I’ll answer your first question I’ll move to Jan for the second and then Derica for the last.
On Cymbalta sort of those two questions being related.
In the variations that we saw in wholesale inventory levels from Q1 of last year Q2 of this year were within the normal ranges happened to be slightly favorable at this quarter but was not a significant driver of the growth.
Wholesalers on average are keeping a couple to a few weeks of inventory Steve it’s not a large amount of inventory.
So actually we wouldn’t expect that they would begin to ramp down purchases for example until you get into the fourth quarter given that the patent expires December 11 I believe it as of this year.
Jan? Yeah in relation to our base inhibitor what we saw was elevation of liver and lungs that came with time and which caused those accident to stop this program.
We believe it’s likely to be molecule specific based on the totality or base biology which has been published for humans and animal studies.
It remains to be seen however what happens with other base molecules.
Derica? Steve in regards to the U.S.
price benefit seen in this quarter and at the product level the two biggest drivers of that will be Cymbalta and Evista.
Obviously it’s very good for us in the quarter and for the year but we know that will come to an end as we endure the patent expiries of those two products beginning in December and then Q1 for Evista in 2014.
Thanks Derica.
Kathy next caller please?  Thank you.
We have Chris Schott with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead?  Hi great.
Thanks very much and first of all maybe just I could obviously say it’s great John to have you back and hope everything went smoothly with the recovery.
Two questions first maybe for Derica can you just elaborate on the guidance update? I guess my question is is the move to lower end of the expense ranges here driven by deeper and expected cost cutting I mean are you finding more to cut than you expected? Or is this more of a timing issues and that you’re achieving targeted cost reductions faster than you expected? I guess just want to read this – is this just a matter of maximizing your pre-patent expiration earnings or should it be thinking about just implying more confidence in 2014 and beyond? The second question was last year on this call you’ve provided a longer-term view of the company that called for margins to normalize overtime.
I guess some sort of given the pipeline updates you’ve had over the past year could you just update both your comfort in that longer-term view and perhaps maybe talk a little bit more about the time horizon with which – about to kind of get margins back to a more normalized level once we kind of get through 2014? Thanks very much.
Okay sure.
Chris this is Derica.
In regard to the guidance update it really is the organization honestly is doing an outstanding job of just deriving productivity gains that we think are sustainable across the business.
So these are not one-time effects and so that absolutely gives us even greater confidence in our ability to meet those minimums I talked about for 2014 especially the $3 billion in net income.
And so we believe we are very much on track to get to those goals.
In regards to the long-term view as you recall you’re correct this time last year we talked on our Q2 earnings call for 2012.
We’ve talked about the opportunity for Lilly to begin to expand margins coming out in the 2014 trough and we still always see that as being an opportunity before us.
The two elements that will drive us expanding those margins is obviously we’re planning on returning to revenue growth coming out of the losses involved in Evista and that’s a net 2015 2016 2017 timeframe while at the same time being able to get greater leverage from both our commercial and our manufacturing footprint.
And not having to grow those to cost base or expense base is at the same rate as our revenue growth.
And that’s what’s really going to drive that expansion.
Obviously one of the questions we get often is Derica if we do not achieve the pipeline output that you’re hoping for do you believe that you can still expand margins? We still believe we can expand margins coming out obviously how we get there will differ and it would depend upon which assets from the pipeline emerge or don’t emerge.
So that’s why we’re not able to be more specific at this stage because we have to see how the pipeline itself specifically plays out.
Thanks Derica.
Kathy next caller please?  Thank you.
We have Marc Goodman with UBS.
Please go ahead?  Yes good morning.
A couple of questions first PCSK9 obviously there is a few others that are ahead so I was curious how you think your product could differentiate in that market? And second can you give us little more color on the Animal Health business? Last quarter we talked about the supply/demand getting a little bit out of awkward in the quarter and I was wondering if that’s got better and if you can talk a little more there? And then also third question is is Europe can you talk about pricing in Europe? Have there been any major changes that you’ve seen any countries talking about major changes that we need to be watching for? Thanks.
As we to PCSK9 first the cardiovascular area is a keen interest to Lilly for instance than the connection to diabetics which has a very high risk for cardiovascular disease.
And as you know we have an oral CETP inhibitor approved in place to rate them for cardiovascular prevention which then gives a very large HDL elevation.
So I think it’s a good strategic fit then to have a molecule which gives also very powerful LDL lowering.
And our molecule what we have seen then in our early clinical trials is it could be a best in class molecule with a very powerful LDL lowering with very long duration and of great magnitude.
Great.
Thanks John.
Derica?  Marc in regards to Animal Health we did see a very solid bounce back in our Animal Health business in the second quarter with 6% growth.
As you saw from Melissa’s comments earlier that it was really driven by good strong growth in our combined animal business both in U.S.
and outside of the U.S.
And also the good news is we saw a further stabilization in our food animal business versus the drag that we were experiencing in Q1.
As we report we still expect that we should be able to drive good growth in our Animal Health business both in the second half of 2013 but as well as we think about 2014 as future years.
We are seeing some stabilization at the producer level in terms of both the sizes of herds as well as beginning to see some monetary improvement in some of the segments.
Great.
And then in terms of European price mark that a quarter of the European price impact was minus 1% at the lower end of our historical average of minus 1% to minus 3% in part due to the fact that in the UK the current PPRS scheme actually calls for very modest but slight price increase in 2013.
In terms of developments moving forward the French government has talked about potential measures on some of the hospital products that those who go through those could impact particularly Alimta could happen yet this year or in 2014 that’s unclear at this point in time.
And another thing I’d flag is the UK where the current PPRS scheme does expire at the end of this year negotiations are still ongoing for a new PPRS agreement that would start next year and that should also be the date that the UK would start with its new value based pricing scheme yet to be determined in terms of how it will be implemented for new products.
On the UK front one thing I would mention that had come up on some other calls earlier this quarter UK had talked about potential decreases of 10% to 20% on a certain bundle of products and just to be clear that impact will be zero for Lilly because that was the impact of only those products for the companies that do not participate in the PPRS scheme Lilly does participate in the PPRS scheme it would not be subject to any of those potential price declines.
Hey Marc this is Derica again.
Also just one other comment on Animal Health I felt to make it do recall that the – as we look at the current projections for the Animal Health industry growth it is still projected to be in the lower single digits and we fully expect to exceed the industry growth rate that we have done historically.
Thanks Derica.
Kathy next caller please?  Thank you.
We have David Risinger with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead? Thanks very much.
And John I wanted to add my congratulations not only on the financial upside but your healthy return timing upside? Thank you.
So my three questions are as follows: regarding Ramucirumab should we be expecting the top line press release before San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium or not second could you provide some perspective on the Humalog net price decline that was mentioned in the press release I’m guessing that’s due to bundling to help drive Tradjenta access but that’s just a guess on my part.
And then third I’m hoping you could talk a little bit about potentially bringing atomoxetine to market for depression and what the implications might be for your planning for the Cymbalta sales force? Thank you.
Great Dave.
Thank you for the questions.
So I think Jan Jan as well if you want me to comment on atomoxetine and then the last question Dave Derica you want to comment on sort of the Cymbalta sales force expectations as we move forward.
Okay.
So over the Ramucirumab data for breast cancer are eminent and the plan is to have a top line press release before the San Antonio Breast Meeting in the best of world we could also present the data at that meeting.
Jan comment there about Edivoxetine as well before moving on to Enrique? The Edivoxetine is the adjunct therapy then for depression and there is a difference of actually having onboard SSRI and adding on the treatment compare them to having Cymbalta where you have the two mechanism at the same time.
Okay.
Enrique?  Sure.
First just to clarify because we are pleased in terms of where we are when we look at our volume growth.
In the U.S.
aligned with the market right now and outside of the U.S.
it’s slightly ahead in terms of where that relevant for Humalog is.
So we would likely continue to see some of durability there.
There are no new contracts when it comes to pricing that starting in Q2.
It is typical for us to look at new contracts at the start of the year.
Dave real quick if you are thinking about sort of first quarter second quarter you will see that Humalog was up 9% in the U.S.
in the first quarter and relatively flat here in the second quarter.
As Enrique eluded to with pricing relatively flat if you look over a couple of quarter period.
So 9% and zero in terms of average they were in that that 4% to 5% growth it’s far more actual reflection of the current run rate.
Derica? Dave in regards to the Cymbalta sales force again we announced the restructuring of our U.S.
sales force.
Back in April we reduced the size of our U.S.
footprint about 30%.
Obviously this was with an anticipation of the impact of the patent accretive both Cymbalta as well as Evista.
We do believe at the same time that this residual footprint that we have is sufficient to accommodate our pipeline going forward.
So we were planning also in terms of with a foresight to what we think may emerge and if we are successful with Edivoxetine in terms from a regulatory standpoint we think we can fit it into our existing commercial footprint.
Great.
Thank you.
Kathy next caller please.
We have John Boris with Suntrust.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the questions and again John welcome back and glad to hear you are going full board.
Just on life cycle management of products towards the end of the life cycles most probably Cymbalta and Evista that you alluded to are you managing those products a lot differently.
In that it seems as though you need a lot less feed on the street but you are still growing volumes and it seems as though you’re maximizing profitability on those assets so any thoughts on that? Question for Jan on Phase II assets what are the assets that you are most excited about there is quite a few of them that you have in Phase II development but can you point to couple that you are excited about? And then for Derica on R&amp;D and also for Jan as we look at R&amp;D certainly as a percent of sales it’s very high but just directionally going forward over the next couple of years as you realize and file quite a few of these assets how should we be thinking about the leverage that you are going to be getting out of that line going forward? Thanks.
Great John thanks for the questions.
I will take your first and then Jan shall comment on the pipeline assets and then Derica on the R&amp;D.
So clearly we are managing Cymbalta differently as we reach the end of its life cycle particularly here in the U.S.
We have talked about the fact that this would be a different sales force and marketing effort as we approach patent expiration compared to Zyprexa but each product is unique and requires a different approach.
You may recall John that we really ramped down and had no sales force efforts our marketing efforts to speak up probably for a couple of years prior Zyprexa patent expiration.
In this case essentially the sales force announcement was made early this year we basically have completed that out of this middle part of July and have minimal efforts in terms of providing samples or the materials responding to questions as we move into this last six months of the patent here in the U.S.
We also have talked about the fact that we would maintain marketing efforts both direct to consumer television as well as other media up until much later in the life cycle for Cymbalta and that continues to be the case.
Obviously those have the gun to ramp down and we will ramp down as we reach the patent expiration again leading to some of the year-on-year cost savings in addition to the sales force that we talked about earlier.
Jan? Yeah so let me start with one of the most recent molecules the Prostaglandin Synthetase Inhibitor which has been a difficult to drug target that we now have a compound in Phase 2 ‘14 indication.
And this is Prostacyclin sparing which could mean that it has a better safety profile than the current exenatide.
Elotuzumab as you know is our antibody which recently reported intriguing data on increasing bone mineral density both in the spine and to some extent also in the hip region.
The Glucago receptor antagonist is an oral molecule than for Diabetes Type II where we recently also reported promising data or blood glucose lowering without any weight gain or risk for hypoglycemia.
We have our TGF-beta monoclonal antibody for chronic renal disease or chronic kidney disease which then we have in large Phase 2 trials.
In the oncology area I would like to mention three that TGF-beta oral molecule the CDK 4/6 which we also discussed and our cMET antibody then for a variety of tumors.
And finally I think we already mentioned that PCSK9 antibody then for lipid lowering.
So we have a number of agents in Phase II to talk about.
Thanks Jan.
Derica?  John in regards to R&amp;D cost as I stated earlier this in terms of our overall offerings with this.
As we look to complete or conclude some of the large Phase 3 studies that were currently underway actually progressing towards submission hopefully approval.
That will give us some relief in terms of our R&amp;D expense going forward.
So we believe that we are kind of at a peak at the moment.
So when I look forward to future period you should see kind of a relief of pressure and that does obviously help us in terms of our achieving our goal of $3 billion while not sacrificing the replenishment and the future progressing of our clinical development pipeline.
So we are trying to make sure that we maintain a very good balance between both our current Phase 3 as well as the questions you just had for Jan and making sure that there was a cohort of opportunities that can follow that we can avoid hopefully in future drought as you’ve seen from Lilly over the number of years and our learning from our prodec scenario.
So we feel very good about the late stage and the early stage balance that we are looking at today.
Okay thanks Derica.
Kathy next caller?   Thank you.
We have Damien Conover with Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
I just have a question on pricing power in the U.S.
excluding this in Bolton Evista can you talk a little bit about the pricing power in the U.S.
and I think historically we look at pricing power in the U.S.
and kind of the mid-single digit range.
I was just wondering if you still think given the current environment kind of extrapolating that into the future makes sense.
And then just one quick follow up on the biosimilar refining of the glargine product in Europe.
Just wanted to confirm that you are still looking at that launch as more of a branded launch even though you’re taking the biosimilar filing strategy there? Thank you.
Great.
Damien thanks for the question.
Enrique you may switch it up on if you want to go ahead and answer the second question first and then Derica or I’ll handle your first question Daniel.
Enrique? Yes absolutely as we have stated in the year back I think our intent is to offer a second high quality glargine option for patients.
We believe that competition is going to be driven by the experiences of those individual patients.
We have to remember here in licensing the critical role as well as the level of support and service that we provide both physicians and the staff.
So yeah we are thinking that the market dynamics are more closely going to assemble that over the branded market.
And Damien on pricing in the U.S.
as we go through the pre-patent expiration period given some of the dynamics you are seeing and probably will see higher than average U.S.
net price increases.
We don’t expect those to be sustained after this period and we will go back to far more normal increases that you mentioned probably in that mid to upper single digit range depending on where we are in life cycle and new product launches.
We have seen over time that last five years increasing pressure were a greater percentage of list price increases.
It is essentially given back in the form of rebates and discounts and in other words leading us to realize that two thirds of list price increase has caused us half of list price increase on average.
At this point I think we expect significant additional pressure on the U.S.
pricing that we certainly don’t expect to see the pressure that has currently existed updating it all.
Kathy if there are more callers we have time for one more.
We have no one else in queue.
Great well thank you very much to all of you for joining us live or listening on the reply.
We are very pleased with our first half results this year that have positioned us to raise our full year 2013 guidance and put us on track to meet or exceed our minimum financial goals through 2014.
We continue to progress the pipeline and are confident we’ll have four regulatory submissions of molecules this year frankly an unprecedented number for a company of our size or probably of any size in the industry.
We are very pleased with the progress we’ve made on the pipeline.
Just a quick reminder that prior to our third quarter call the next major event we have that which we hope to see many of you or hopefully you would dial in is our October third investment community meeting that we will be holding here in Indianapolis.
Once again thank you for your interest in Eli Lilly &amp; Company we are very appreciative and hope you have a great day.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and choosing AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to Eli Lilly &amp; Company.
Q3 earnings call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a questions-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Phil Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us for Eli Lilly &amp; Company's third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
I am Phil Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are Derica Rice our Chief Financial Officer Dr.
Jan Lundberg our President of Lilly Research Laboratories and Ilissa Rassner and Travis Coy from the Investor Relations team.
During this conference call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on slide three and those outlined in our latest forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
Q3 marked another quarter of strong operational execution both in terms of financial results and pipeline advancements.
Solid topline revenue growth and expense controls produced a 41% increase in non-GAAP earnings per share.
And in the last eight months we have completed eight U.S.
European and Japanese regulatory submission for four potential new medicines.
Empagliflozinm our insulin glargine product in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim dulaglutide and ramucirumab.
In the coming quarters our financial results will reflect the U.S.
patent expirations for Cymbalta and Evista.
We are ready for this challenging financial period and remain well positioned to invest in R&amp;D recapitalize our asset base and gauge an optimistic business development and return substantial cash to shareholders by paying our dividend at least at this current level in 2014 and beyond and by repurchasing shares under our recently authorized $5 billion program.
In 2014 we will also see more Phase 3 data readouts and could have additional regulatory submissions as well as multiple product launches.
This is an exciting time and we remain focused on continued execution of our innovation based strategy to bring value patients physicians payers and shareholders.
Before covering our financial results let's review events that have taken place since our last earnings call.
We had a number of clinical data readouts including positive readouts for SQUIRE a Phase 3 study investigating necitumumab as first-line treatment for squamous non-small cell lung cancer and for RAINBOW a Phase 3 study of ramucirumab as combination therapy in patients with advanced gastric cancer.
In both studies we saw increased overall survival.
Also for ramucirumab the Phase 3 RA study in first-line breast cancer failed to meet its primary endpoint of increased progression free survival.
We also made substantial progress on the regulatory front as we completed the rolling DLA submission in the U.S.
for ramucirumab as a single agent for advanced gastric cancer and completed the E.U.
submission for the same indication.
As you saw this morning we are pleased with the FDA granted Priority Review designation.
We also submitted dulaglutide for Type II diabetes in both the U.S.
and Europe and along with Boehringer Ingelheim submitted empagliflozin for Type II diabetes in Japan.
Disappointingly we received the final decision for the centers for Medicare and Medicaid services that provide coverage with evidence development for the use of beta-amyloid Positron Emission tomography imaging agents including our approved product Amyvid.
We believe this decision is a significant setback for patients and for the Alzheimer's disease community.
Finally Lilly's board of directors authorized a new 5 billion share repurchase program which the company intends to complete over a multi-year period.
(Audit Start 4:15)Now let's turn to discuss our financial performance.
First I will provide comments about our GAAP results and then Travis will discuss a few non-GAAP measures which we believe provide insights into the underlying trends in our business.
Turning to Slide 6 you will see that just as it did in Q2 worldwide revenue increased 6% driven by growth in key products including Cymbalta Alimta Cialis Tradjenta Humalog Strattera Humulin and Animal Health.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue was 79.2% an increase of 130 basis points over Q3 last year.
The increase in gross margin percent was driven by higher prices and lower manufacturing costs partially offset by a smaller benefit from the effect of foreign exchange on international inventories sold.
Total GAAP operating expense the sum of R&amp;D SG&amp;A and other special charges decreased 4%.
This decrease was driven by a 6% decline in SG&amp;A expenses and by a $53 million asset impairment charge in last year's quarter with no similar charges this quarter.
The decline in SG&amp;A expense was driven by ongoing cost containment efforts including the previously announced changes to our U.S.
sales and marketing activities related to the upcoming loss of exclusivity for Cymbalta and Evista.
R&amp;D expense increased 3% this quarter driven by higher early-stage research expenses.
The growth in revenue increase in gross margin percent and decrease in total operating expense combined to produce a 42% increase in operating income.
You may recall that in Q3 last year we recognized $788 million of income related to early payment of Amylin's financial obligations related to exenatide.
We had no such income this year and other income and deductions with a net deduction of $31 million in the quarter.
Our GAAP tax rate decreased by 8.7 percentage points due to the taxes payable in the third quarter of 2012 on the payment received from Amylin and to a lesser extent the reinstatement of R&amp;D tax credit in the U.S.
effective January 1 2013.
As a result our Q3 GAAP net income declined 9% while the decline in GAAP earnings per share was slightly less at 6% reflecting the benefit of our share repurchases late last year and early this year.
Travis? Thanks Phil.
Let's move on to non-GAAP measures provided on Slide 7.
This quarter there were no reconciling items so our GAAP and non-GAAP results are the same.
Last year however we did have the two items Phil mentioned earlier that were excluded from our non-GAAP results; $788 million of income related to exenatide and a $53 million asset impairment charge.
Also our non-GAAP tax rate decreased 1.6 percentage points due primarily to the reinstatement of the R&amp;D tax credit.
As a result our non-GAAP net income and EPS growth were substantially higher than the corresponding GAAP numbers at 35% and 41% respectively.
Slide eight provides the same information on a year-to-date basis while slide nine provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS.
Additional details about our reported earnings are available in today's earnings press release.
As you can see on slide 10 total revenue increased 6% in Q3 driven by a favorable price impact of 5% and a 3% increase in volume partially offset by a negative foreign exchange impact of 2%.
U.S.
pharma revenue increased 11% driven by price as volume was essentially flat.
In Australia Canada and Europe or ACE revenue grew 5% driven by volume increases across multiple products including Alimta Cialis Cymbalta Forteo and Humalog.
The positive effect of FX offset the negative price effect.
Once again Japan revenue was significantly impacted by the weakening of the yen.
For the quarter FX reduced our Japan revenue by 21%.
On a constant currency basis Japan revenue grew 9% with an 11% increase in volume partially offset by a 2% price decline.
Volume growth was primarily driven by Forteo Strattera Tradjenta and Evista.
As for emerging markets which is no longer embedded in rest of the world revenue declined 1% this quarter with FX contributing negative 4% price negative 2% and volume a positive 5% led by Alimta Cialis Forteo Humalog and Tradjenta.
Within emerging markets revenue growth in China moderated but continued at a double-digit pace up 11% driven by 10% volume growth.
Elanco Animal Health grew 11% this quarter also driven by volume including a benefit from the U.S.
withdrawal of a competitor's food animal product.
Both U.S.
and o U.S.
animal health grew 11% supported by food animal growth of 10% and companion animal growth of 13%.
Slide 11 shows the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on our 2013 results.
For both Q3 and year-to-date FX has had a modest negative effect on revenue growth.
In terms of cost of goods sold this year we have seen a smaller benefit from the FX effect on international inventories sold.
As a result foreign exchange has had a substantial effect on growth in operating income and earnings per share.
Next I will provide a brief pipeline update before turning the call over to Derica.
Slide 12 shows our pipeline as of October 16.
Changes since our last earnings call are highlighted with green arrows showing progression and red arrows showing attrition.
As Phil mentioned earlier we recently submitted dulaglutide and ramucirumab in both the U.S.
and EU.
In addition we formally terminated development of our Phase II base inhibitor.
In phase I three molecules began testing and three others were terminated.
Now I will turn the call over to Derica to cover some of the remaining key events for 2013 our financial guidance and some closing comments before we open the call for Q&amp;A.
Derica? Thanks Travis.
Today I will began my remarks with slide 13 a slide we have used for the last three years to help you chart our progress primarily on our number one priority which has been advancing our pipeline.
As you can see there many more green checkmarks than red and we are pleased with the progress that we have made this year.
Starting mid-last year we entered an intense period of Phase III data readouts that extends into 2014.
So far we have seen positive Phase III results for five assets ramucirumab necitumumab dulaglutide and empagliflozin and our insulin glargine product.
And we’ve completed regulatory submissions for four of these assets with the fifth necitumumab slated for 2014.
Before the end of the year we have internal data readouts on a number of Phase III trials for edivoxetine as well that initial Phase III data for our novel basal insulin with a topline press release for edivoxetine likely between late this year and early next year and for our novel basal insulin later in 2014.
In August we had the District Court hearing in the Alimta method-of-use patent litigation.
We are pleased with the arguments that were presented and anticipate a ruling to be handed down in the first half of next year.
Finally later this quarter on December 11 to be exact we will lose the U.S.
Patent protection for Cymbalta.
We are proud of the benefit this product has brought to patients and we are prepared to successfully traverse the financial challenge posed by its patent expiration.
Now as we discussed in the past due to the patent expiration in the fourth quarter we expect to see a reduction in wholesaler purchases and we will take a substantial reserve for the expected future product return.
I will provide a bit more color on this in just a moment.
Now let's turn to our updated 2013 financial guidance.
As you can see on Slide 14 most of our line item guidance remains unchanged.
We have revised two line items.
First we have raised the bottom end of our EPS guidance by $0.05.
This brings our full year non-GAAP EPS guidance range to $4.10 to $4.15 per share.
Second we are now forecasting capital expenditures to be approximately $1 billion.
Now some of you have already commented this morning on the fact that we did not raise the top end of our full year EPS guidance range despite beating Q3 EPS consensus by $0.07 and you’ve correctly observed that.
To make the math work this means that consensus EPS for Q4 needs to come down by roughly $0.07.
It appears that the difference between our expectations compared to the Street for the split of EPS across Q3 and Q4 [falls] (ph) down to the expected sales erosion for U.S.
Cymbalta.(Audit End) Let's dig into this a little bit deeper.
U.S.
Cymbalta sales by quarter this year have been $1.1 billion $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion for the first three quarters of this year.
For Q4 the street average is just under $800 million which represents two full months of sales at the recent run rate.
Our expectation is that U.S.
Cymbalta sales will come in well below current consensus.
First we expect minimal wholesaler repurchases after the patent expires on December 11.
Second we expect minimal wholesaler purchases in the first two to three weeks leading up to the patent expiration as wholesalers work down their existing inventories to post-patent expirations levels.
As we have called out in the past in Q4 we will also take a substantial reserve for expected future returns and we said this reserve will on the hundreds of millions of dollars.
As a result we anticipate that U.S.
Cymbalta sales in Q4 will be closer to $500 million or half our recent quarterly run rate as opposed to the nearly $800 million that is reflected in sell side consensus.
Moving to slide 15 you will see a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS for 2013 and the associated growth rates from these numbers to our 2013 guidance.
In closing Q3 marks another quarter with solid financial performance.
Through top line revenue growth and continued cost containment efforts we delivered 41% non-GAAP earnings per share growth.
Going forward we will continue to focus on the three strategic priorities that have guided our efforts thus far advancing our pipeline driving strong performance of our marketed brands in key growth areas and increasing productivity and reducing our cost structure.
These strategic priorities will also allow us to return substantial cash to shareholders by paying our dividend at least at this current level 2014 and beyond and by repurchasing shares under our recently authorized $5 billion program.
We remain committed to our innovation strategy and believe it will drive growth and expand margins post 2014.
The progress we have made to-date positions us well to meet the challenges ahead.
In 2014 we will begin the launch of our next wave of innovation and we will continue to generate and disseminate important data that will help investors and analysts better gauge our longer term growth potential.
We look forward to keeping you updated on our progress.
This concludes our prepared remarks and we will now take your questions.
Lola first caller please? (Audit Start 17:15)(Operator Instructions).
First we will go to line of Mark Schoenebaum with ISI Group.
Hi guys thank you very very much for taking my questions.
I really appreciate it.
Thanks for all the clarity on the call.
I had a couple of if I may pipeline questions.
The first is on necitumumab do you -- I realize that we haven't seen all the data that you have do you guys expect necitumumab to become the new standard of care in frontline squamous or would you characterize it differently than that? And number two also on cancer when would you expect we would see and if this is in the slide I apologize for missing it when would you expect to present additional data on your CDK 4/6 inhibitor additional clinical data? And then the final question was can you update us on the timelines for the dulaglutide versus Victoza trial and maybe Enrique can educate us on the commercial implications of results from that trial.
Thank you Great Mark.
Thank you for you questions.
Jan maybe you want to start off with the first two related to pipeline.
and Ilissa you can help with that one and then actually we don't have Enrique on the call today.
No problem.
I look to Ilissa to provide an update on the AWARD-6 trial and we will go from there.
Yes and let me start with necitumumab.
As you know this indication of squamous non-small cell lung cancer has very few treatment options currently.
So we are looking forward to our discussions with the regulators after we have submitted and then I think we will see the final outcome there.
In relation to CDK 4/6 we are very encouraged with the data we have seen with our molecule and we believe we have a very competitive agent that allows continuous dosing and it's also penetrating the blood-brain barrier which could be important for a number of tumor indications and we have expansion cohorts in both lung and breast and we anticipate those data will be communicated next year.
Thanks Mark.
It's Ilissa.
For dulaglutide the AWARD-6 trial versus Victoza 1.8 milligrams we expect that trial to readout in early 2014 and we would expect that at some point in 2014 we would hopefully be able to present detailed data.
In terms of commercial expectations we actually think that this is an important trial to help achieve optimal pricing and access.
If we can achieve the primary endpoint of non-inferiority it will be really important in that regard.
Great and then also on the clinical trial results for the SQUIRE trial of necitumumab in first-line squamous non-small cell lung cancer we would expect that to be presented at the medical meeting during 2014.
It's too early to provide a specific venue but you can probably guess some of the likely culprits for lung cancer trials that we would be shooting for.
So look forward to that data presentation during the course of next year.
Lola look if we could have a next caller please? Certainly and next we will go to the line of Tim Anderson with Sanford Bernstein.
Hi this is Bruce Badner in for Tim Anderson with two questions.
So on the Animal Health landscape is it your sense that there are meaningful business development opportunities in this area in terms of businesses you can bolt-on to your existing business? Then from my second question.
I know Effient is not a mega brand for you but it is a steadily growing franchise that’s selling around $0.5 billion a year now.
Is there anything to fear from AstraZeneca's Brilinta or are you seeing any impact as they try to push their own product harder? Thank you.
Great.
Thank you for the questions.
Derica if you would like to take the question on Animal Health business development and then Travis you want to take the second question on Effient please.
All right thanks.
Derica? In regards to Animal Health we continue to be very encouraged and excited about our Elanco Animal Health business in the third quarter we actually grew revenue 11% of which 10 percentage points of that was in the food animal segment and we had about 13 percentage points of growth in the companion animal segment.
If you’ve followed Lilly historically we have been probably more inquisitive in the animal health space than we have been on the human pharma side and we continue to see business development as an opportunity to further leverage our organic growth.
And as you saw or may recall that when Jeff Simmons the President of our Elanco Animal Health business presented at our Investor Day on October 3 about a third of - or 30% of the growth over the last five years has been from acquisitions and about two-thirds has been through organic growth and pipeline so we will continue to be assertive in the area of looking for external opportunities to bolster that business.
Bruce this is Phil.
I will go ahead and take your second question so on Effient we have actually not seen a significant impact from the launch of Brilinta particularly here in the U.S.
We did see an impact last year and into this year from the launch of generic clopidogrel that seems to have stabilized and the weekly TRx are pretty stable on that 27 000 mark and have been now for a few months.
We do look forward to driving growth in the product by focusing on areas where we have had particularly strong data for example in those patients that have STEMI or those patients with NSTEMI that also have diabetes as well where we believe we have a pretty strong value proposition.
Next caller please? Certainly and it come from the line of Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
It's Jay Olson on behalf of Jami Rubin.
Thanks for taking the question.
Could you help us understand the impressive growth in Tradjenta in the third quarter and could you provide some color on the sorts of patients such as new to market versus switching from other DPP-4s.
Also can you describe some of the key DPP-4 market dynamics such as how long patients typically remain on DPP-4 therapy before adding therapies or switching to other therapies? Finally could you comment on the pricing and whether or not you see pricing power in the DPP-4 market? Thank you.
Jay thank you for the questions.
I’ll have Ilissa start with your questions and I will go ahead and complement her answer.
Ilissa? Yes.
We have been very pleased with the growth that we have seen in Tradjenta.
We as you probably know have increased our access over time.
In the commercial space we are in the mid-60 percentage points in terms of access about half of that in terms of Part D.
We continue to lead Onglyza in new patient volume and share making us the second choice in the DPP-4 space and as Enrique had pointed out in October 3 if you are looking at endocrinologists which are a leading indicator of primary care physicians and you are looking at this as a monotherapy 40% of new-to brand-scripts are going to Tradjenta so we see a lot of momentum there.
I think the one question Jay we may have to get back to you on which we don't have the data for here is the question you had on the length of time that people stay on a DPP-4 before switching to others and then the question you asked about sort of where the patients are coming from in terms of switch that data that we can get from our diabetes team but we don't have here with us so we will get back to you on those two sub-questions.(Audit End) Next question please? It will come from the line of Chris Schott with JPMorgan.
Great.
Thanks.
Just first on Elanco.
How sustainable is the acceleration in the growth we are seeing here from competitor withdrawal? Then second just coming back on Elanco the consolidation of the space do you think consolidation of larger animal health companies is possible for an antitrust perspective? Apologies I have a cold here.
My voice is not doing so well.
Then the final question repo in light of the current stock price how much of a priority is that $5 billion program? Thanks very much.
Thanks Chris for the questions.
Derica do you want a start? Then if necessary I can.
In regards to Elanco the good news is that the majority of the 11 percentage points of growth is coming from our organic business.
We do know that of that 10 percentage point growth on the food animal side a piece of that is from the benefit of one of the competitive product Zilmax being removed from the market or withdrawn from the market here in the U.S but it is probably about half of that growth.
We believe that we can continue to sustain good robust growth in the Animal Health segment and part of that is also going to be by bolstered by the fact that when you look at just numbers of that group's pipeline that they will be launching new products across their portfolio as well.
In regards to Chris your question about consolidation it's hard to speculate on what the other larger players are thinking but clearly if you are in that upper half of the industry the animal health space then and you are contemplating consolidation the anti-trust rules and all that is going to come into play because you will see overlap of portfolios and there is I guess for those few to pursue that route there are a number of different ways to try to deal our content with that including divesture of certain product lines.
But that probably will be the biggest hurdle.
In regards to the $5 billion share repurchase program that we announced we believe we can do this along with sustaining our dividend at least at this current level in 2014 and beyond.
We had not commenced the program as of yet but we hope to start it sometime soon.
And obviously as we look to initiate that then one of the factors as to when and how much will be kind of where the stock price is trading at that time.
Chris one other thing on the stock repurchase program when we got some questions after the announcement some had observed and correctly so that the last repurchase program that we authorized was $1.5 billion.
It was completed very quickly between late last year and Q1 of this year.
And we had indicated and continue to indicate that this particular program would be one that we would do over multiple years.
Lola could we have our next caller please.
Certainly it will come from the line of Vamil Divan with Credit Suisse.
Yes thanks for taking the questions.
My first one is back on the diabetes side.
If you could just maybe talk a little bit about Humalog and the pricing dynamics there? We are seeing pretty big list price increases but the net selling price looks like it is lower for the quarter.
So any color there will be helpful? Great then I will go ahead and take your question.
So in the U.S.
there are a number of factors that lead this quarter for the negative net effective selling price change that we outlined in the press release.
There are three main factors there.
One is that we do continue to see the effect of some of the changes that took place in access for 2013.
We compare back to 2012.
So some of the competitive and payer dynamic.
Second we have seen greater utilization of a number of Lilly products including Humalog in Medicare Part D increasing the amounts that we are reserving essentially for donut hole exposure as well as in the managed Medicaid book of business leading to higher overall or average level of rebates and discounts.
Then there were in the quarter some dynamics that are more one-time related to accounting adjustments as we look both at what happened in last year's Q3 and adjustments made in this year's Q3 based on new information that came in that really were adjustment not specifically related to the quarter itself.
We do expect as we go forward you are going to see a little bit different dynamic in Q4 than you are likely to see during 2014.
We will see an impact from some pretty significant adjustments that were made in Q4 of 2012 that will make the price dynamics look significantly different and more positive in Q4 of '13.
Again that's not going to reflect any kind of change in the underlying actual prices or discounts that we have in 2013.
It is something that is going be driven by our prior period comparison and then do keep in mind that going forward we will likely see the impact both in terms of volume and price for the Express Scripts' decision to put NovoLog off their formula essentially and put Humalog into preferred position for 2014 in their more high controlled national formulary that a portion of their clients do subscribe to.
So again we continue to see very robust volume growth in this category and we are very pleased to have very stable share and good robust volume growth as the market continues to grow.
We project that trend to continue in the future.
Okay thanks and then one more if I could just on emerging markets and appreciate the color you gave on the call regarding the different push and the pulls leverage.
How should we just think about maybe longer term the percent of growth there? 3% I guess in the constant currency rate was a little bit less than we would have thought for this quarter.
How should we think about maybe fourth quarter or looking in to next year? Sure there was a little bit of an impact obviously from a slowdown in growth while we still posted double-digit growth in China of 11%.
That was somewhat below some of the prior quarters.
As Jan talked about in our October 3 meeting his expectation would be for high single-digit growth on average going forward.
This is an area where we do tend to see a little bit more variability in the quarterly growth rates.
So we wouldn't advise you to go ahead maybe look at averaging that over a couple of quarters to get a feel for the true underlying dynamics and not be swayed frankly on a positive upside or on the downside if you see a quarter that has significantly higher or lower growth.
So the high single-digit is a realistic growth rate going forward for our business.
Given the amount of innovation that we will also have to bring to these markets going forward we are very comfortable with that kind of a growth expectation for our emerging markets business.
Okay.
Thank you.
Lola next caller please? Certainly.
From Tony Butler at Barclays.
Thanks very much Derica.
It's been fairly impressive when you look at the SG&amp;A line how much you have been able to draw down overall expenses so I could push you a little bit are you satisfied with that numbers as you enter '14 moreover given that you will well let's assume you will have at least two launches in '14 may be more and relative to the pushes and pulls on that SG&amp;A line I would love you to comment.
Thanks very much.
Sure Tony.
We are pleased with our performance but we are never satisfied with our performance.
We believe that we can always look to improve and get better.
As we think about 2014 as you heard me say at our Investor Meeting here in Indianapolis on October 3 even in 2014 you will see that our SG&amp;A spend will decline even further in '14 versus where have you seen here this year.
Then also in addition to that you will begin to see that our R&amp;D spend will decline as well as we have completed many of the current Phase 3 studies come to completion as well as our pipeline continues to mature.
I think we will have a even better operating expense profile in '14 even though we will be going through the period of declining revenues.
We will go to the line of Gregg Gilbert with Bank of America.
Thanks.
A couple of oncology questions.
First on ram in gastric I realize the second potential indication will be filed separately but in reality I think docs will probably want to use ram in combo or at least have the option so my question is are you trying to get the combo results published as soon as possible to enable Compendia listing for the self paid reimbursement in both indications versus having to wait for the second.
My other question is on necitumumab.
When you put out the top line release a couple months ago you indicated you would file obviously this is a more definitive statements in saying you would meet with regulators in light of the stoppage of [INSPIRE].
Can you offer some context around your confidence in the benefit risk in the squamous setting? I guess we could assume the thromboembolic events were much less common in INSPIRE or is it simply that there a fewer treatment options in the screen so any context around your confidence on that you have already decide to file on neci would be helpful.
Thanks.
Thanks for the questions.
Gregg I will take the first and have Ilissa take the second so for the combination therapy data second-line gastric with ram.
Clearly this was very positive data.
We are very pleased to see this with a second study now in second-line gastric cancer.
We are very interested to get this data out sooner rather than later for the scientific community to understand the potential benefits as well as the potential side effects of this molecule.
There are some venues that we would obviously be targeting that would be great for gastric cancer so we would expect a disclosure in the first half of next year.
Obviously it would be great if it would be earlier in the year at an appropriate venue but we will need to stay tuned on that as we have additional details we will keep you guys appraised.
Ilissa? Yes.
For necitumumab Gregg as you did point we said that we anticipate filing before the end of 2014 and the timing there is related to some manufacturing validation work that needs to done that's pretty typical with biologics when we sometimes season changes in the manufacturing process.
In terms of the benefit risk I think this is one where obviously we didn't share the actual data just the top line but you need to look at the molecule holistically at the benefit risk profile.
We have said that from a risk perspective with thrombolic events that it is consistent with other EGFR molecules however we saw efficacy with necitumumab as we pointed out in our press release and taking it together.
I think it has a favorable benefit risk profile to move forward.
Thanks Ilissa.
Lola next caller please? Certainly.
It will come from the line of Marc Goodman with UBS.
Yes.
Derica you just mentioned a better operating profile in 2014 to 2013 I was curious are you saying that you think the operating margin is going to be higher even though the top line is under pressure? Then second question is just on Alimta.
Can you remind us how much of the OUS sales are Japan and how it's doing in Japan ex-currency is really what I am trying to figure out.
Thanks.
Hi Marc.
This is Derica.
Let me just clarify when I was talking about the profile meaning for Tony's question.
Our operating expenses will be lower in '14 than 2013 so that's what I meant by an improved profile.
We believe we can achieve that through some of the measures I talked about previously such as some of the trials on R&amp;D side that we are in Phase 3 today we will have completed.
And as those begin to conclude that will bring lessen the pressure on our R&amp;D spend.
On the commercial side you will be seeing as we lose the patent for Cymbalta you know that we have already restructured our sales force in the U.S.
reducing it by 30% for which we get a partial effect this year.
We will get a full year effect next year.
And then in addition to that you will also see the removal of the DTC advertising as well.
So those are all things that will lessen the pressure on our SG&amp;A and R&amp;D spend allowing us to bring it down even further than in '14 versus 2013.
And Marc on Alimta before I give the response on that I might want to direct you and other callers to the fact that we have gone ahead and supplemented our workbook with additional information based on some of your requests over the last few quarters or years in some cases.
So hopefully you will find this information helpful as we go forward.
One of the things that you will find in addition to the sales breakdown by product that we have been providing that was U.S.
international leading up to worldwide we have provided subsequent tabs that break out international into ACE Japan and emerging markets.
So that data will show for example that we have $76.5 million of sales of Alimta in Japan in Q3.
That is down pretty significantly relative to the prior year's quarter due to two factors.
One is obviously rate where we are down about 21% year-on-year.
Then also we had a pretty significant price reduction that was instituted in Japan given the significant success we had commercially to trigger that 25% price reduction.
So we continue to see very good uptake of the product and use of the product in Japan and we are very pleased with the performance that we have had.
One other things that we did add to the workbook on that note is constant currency exchange rate growth as well both for products on the international side as well as worldwide and hopefully again that helps respond to some of the requests that you have made over time.
Lola next caller please.
Certainly it will come from the line of Damien Conover with Morningstar.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
Just a follow-up on the diabetes pricing environment.
What we are seeing with a lot of your older products is very strong pricing power.
So maybe if you could comment just more on the longer-term pricing power of your insulins and what might be different about this market in context of the PBM's and just insulin in general that might not allow you to have that strong pricing power or in fact whether or not there is better pricing power there over the longer term? Thank you.
Damien thank you for the question.
Sure Damien this is Derica.
I think when we look at the pricing environment for insulins in the U.S.
okay our position is we still believe that there should be an element of choice as it relates the formulary access.
We do not believe single source formulary is the right decision both for physicians and for payers.
However we have seen a dynamic over the recent years as it relates to some of the managed care organizations PBMs where they have chosen to go to single source and in that environment it absolutely makes the pricing much more competitive and usually you find yourself in a higher rebate environment.
And so that's one of the dynamics that is somewhat subduing the net effective selling price impact in insulins versus what you have seen at some of the other therapeutic area categories.
On the insulins going forward as well Damien this insulin basal or the basal insulin lispro or novel basal insulin to the extent we are able to show differentiation above and beyond just reduction in nocturnal hypoglycemia for example we built to the kinds of additional benefits that helps to position you more favorably with regards to these types of decisions.
The fewer those benefits are in the minds of payers it's probably more difficult it is to go ahead and maintain the patient choice and access that we think is most appropriate.
So again we look forward to some of the trials that we will read out starting late this year and the next year for that particular product and are hopeful that in the basal space as we enter that that can provide some additional not only revenue for us but also some additional benefit for patients and payers that will be recognized in terms of access and pricing.
So innovation and value are going to be the key determinants Damien.
Great thank you.
Lola next caller please.
And we will go to Alex Arfaei with BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning.
A follow-up on the animal health business.
If you could please provide more color on the strength of the x U.S.
business with some of the drivers there.
Derica I am not sure if I got your response earlier when you were talking about the competitive issues with Zilmax.
Is that something that you think is sustainable? Is that the benefit that you are seeing there? How should we think about that advantage going forward? Thank you.
Sure.
Let me start with your second question.
In regards to Zilmax I mean it's hard for us to comment in terms of sustainability of that.
That's all dependent upon how the situation plays out with Merck and their product and obviously we are not privy to their discussions with the regulatory agency in that regard and so that's probably going to be a better question for them.
In regards to our o U.S.
business if you look our o U.S.
Food Animal business growth was around 9% and our companion animal sales grew around 23% to give you some idea of our performance o U.S.
Those two combined you really gave us pretty robust growth outside of the U.S.
and we continue to see significant growth opportunities going forward so other than the food animal slowdown that we saw earlier in the year which we are beginning to see as Jeff has said a little bit of a bounce back we feel very encouraged about the future prospect of this business segment for us.
Damien a little more color on the o U.S.
companion animal growth there.
We have recently launched Trifexis o U.S.
so that has been driving some of the growth and obviously we have experienced very good success of that product in the U.S.
so we look forward to globally expanding that product.
Next caller please Nova? Certainly it will come from the line John Boris with SunTrust.
Thanks for taking the question and congratulations on the quarter.
On ramucirumab can you just articulate what your strategy is at least in Asia and Japan in particular for filling ramucirumab? Secondly on the R&amp;D front.
On your Sclerostin development program can we possibly get an update there and when there might any data readouts and when that product might enter Phase 3? Then just a follow up on China seems as though with the dynamic on volume growth being somewhat flattish in August and into September can you give some comment on how that might be potentially impacting your business in the Chinese market? Thanks.
All right.
John thank you for the questions so we will have Derica take the China question.
Then either Jan or Travis will help us with ramucirumab Asia filling question as well as the update on Sclerostin.
Derica do you want to start off with that China question? John we saw really two dynamics playing out in China at the moment.
One is just the overall slowdown in economic growth in China okay? The second factor has been growth related to the impact of some of the current compliance discussions that are going on in the China marketplace here in the late second and third quarter.
We believe that obviously the economic underlying growth is going to be more of a constant matter to deal with.
I think the question on the table is for some of these compliance matters that has impacted the growth dynamic in China when we will begin to see the bounce back and kind of return more kind of a normalcy so to speak.
For us we saw good growth in the quarter of 11% in China.
It was below what we have seen in some of the prior quarters and prior years but still in that strong double-digit range.
Jan? Yes.
In relation to Sclerostin so we are very encouraged by the Phase 2 data that we have here in a very large actually patient population area and still an unmet medical need and as you know Sclerostin is a unique bone building agent and the with marked BMD increases in the spine and also some similar effect in the hip and we are in final discussions with the regulators on actually how we will form our Phase 3 program.
Okay.
Ilissa? In regards to ramucirumab and Japan we are actually currently evaluating our options for regulatory filings outside of the U.S.
and Europe but we don't have any specifics to share at this time.
I will remind you that the REGARD trial had fewer Asian patients than the RAINBOW combo trial and we haven't been specific on the number of the RAINBOW.
We will be presenting that data in the future but it does contain a larger percentage of patients in Asia.
Thanks Ilissa.
Lola next caller please.
And no one else is in queue with a question.
I would like to turn it back to Mr.
Johnson for any closing remarks.
Okay great.
We thank you very much to those of you on the line listening for your interest in Eli Lilly and Company.
We had a very successful Q3 both in the financial front as well as on advancing our pipeline and as always we will keep you appraised of our progress in the future.
I would also point your attention to January 7 which is sort of the next time we will have one of these calls and that will when we issue first time guidance for 2014.
Once again thank you for listening and participating.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Q4 2013 Earning Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
And later we will conduct a questions-and-answer session with instructions being given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder today’s conference is being recorded.
I’d now like to turn the conference over to our host Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Phil Johnson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for Eli Lilly &amp; Company's fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
I’m Phil Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me on today’s call are John Lechleiter our Chairman President and CEO; Derica Rice our Chief Financial Officer Dr.
Jan Lundberg our President of Lilly Research Laboratories and Ilissa Rassner and Travis Coy of the Investor Relations team.
I would like to call out that this is Travis’s last earnings call with us.
Before he transitions to the financial leadership role of our oncology business we’d like to thank him for his efforts in furthering our work with investors in Wall Street over the last two years.
Thanks Travis.
Now during this conference call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on Slide three and those outlined in our latest forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
Let me begin today’s call by highlighting a few of that that have occurred since last quarter’s call.
In clinical news at the ASCO GI meeting earlier this month a detailed data was presented for RAINBOW.
The second positive Phase 3 ramucirumab trial which will increase overall survival in patients with advanced gastric cancer.
We were pleased with how these data were received by the medical community and we look forward to submitting the data to regulators later this year.
We were disappointed that the Phase 3 studies for edivoxetine which has been studied as an adjunctive therapy for patients with major depressive disorder did not achieve their primary endpoints.
On the regulatory front Q4 caps off a busy year as we completed three more submissions and received a label expansion.
We submitted our new insulin glargine product in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim for regulatory authorities in both the United States and Japan.
We also submitted a marketing authorization application for insulin lispro U-200 to the European Medicines Agency.
And we received approval to update the U.S.
Cialis label to include the use of once daily Cialis 5 milligrams with finasteride to improve urinary symptoms in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia.
In business development we entered into collaboration agreement with Pfizer to jointly develop and commercialize tanezumab for the potential treatment of osteoarthritis pain chronic low back pain and cancer pain.
And earlier this month we announced the acquisition of CGRP antibody in Phase 2 for migraine prevention from Arteaus Therapeutics.
We are very excited about the clinical data underpinning this decision and look forward to publishing them in a leading medical journal.
We also enter the final year of what we’ve called “Years YZ” with the loss of U.S exclusivity for Cymbalta in December.
Cymbalta generated more than $5 billion in worldwide sales last year making it one of the most commercially successful neuroscience brands in our industries history and one of only 20 brands including Zyprexa to exceed $5 billion in sales in a single year.
While we had not originally intended to pursue an authorized generic for Cymbalta we did recently enter into an AG agreement with Prasco to provide a limited quantity of duloxetine.
This will have a minimal positive impact on our 2014 revenue.
Finally during Q4 we executed share repurchases totaling $500 million under our recently authorized $5 billion share repurchase program.
For the full year we distributed nearly $4 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Now let’s discuss our financial performance for the quarter and the full year 2013.
I will provide comments about our GAAP results and then discuss a few non-GAAP measures to provide some additional insight into the underlying trends in our business.
On Slide 6 you can see that revenue in Q4 2013 was nearly $6 billion or 2% below Q4 2012.
We are pleased with the double-digit growth for Humalog Cialis Forteo Strattera and Evista and the Tradjenta revenue more than doubled.
The strong revenue performance nearly offset lower U.S Cymbalta sales.
Excluding Cymbalta in the U.S the rest of our worldwide revenue grew nearly 9%.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue decreased 2.9 percentage points driven by the loss of Cymbalta’s U.S exclusivity and by the impact of foreign exchange rates on international inventory sold partially offset by higher prices.
This quarter foreign exchange rates on international inventory sold have a negative impact on our gross margin.
However in Q4 2012 foreign exchange rates on international inventory sold provided a benefit to our gross margin.
Excluding this FX effect from both 2012 and 2013 gross margin as a percent of revenue declined from 78.5% to 77.0% or 1.5 percentage points.
As in past quarters we’ve included a supplementary slide providing our gross margin percent for the last 10 quarters with and without this FX effect.
Non-GAAP measures are shown on Slide 7.
Total operating expense defined as the sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A was flat versus Q4 2012.
Marketing selling and administrative expenses were down 1% while R&amp;D was up 1%.
The reduction in marketing selling and administrative expenses was due to the restructuring of a U.S commercial organization that occurred in mid 2013 lower marketing expenses for Cymbalta in the U.S and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates partially offset by increased marketing spend on other products.
The growth in R&amp;D expenses was driven by both research and clinical development activity partially offset by lower milestone payments.
As mentioned on our 2014 guidance call we expect a late stage clinical trial cost to decline substantially this year.
Other income and expense was net income of $9 million in Q4 2013 compared to a net expense of $52 million in the fourth quarter 2012.
This difference is primarily due to milestone payments totaling $40 million received from Boehringer Ingelheim for the submissions of our insulin glargine product in the United States and Japan.
Our tax rate was 20.5% a decrease of 1.8 percentage points compared to the same quarter last year primarily due to the lapse of the R&amp;D tax credit in 2012.
At the bottom line net income declined 16%.
The smaller decrease in earnings per share of 13% reflects the benefit of share repurchases.
Ilissa? Thanks Phil.
Let me highlight a few full year results shown on Slide 8.
Revenue increased 2% driven by growth of Humalog Tradjenta Alimta Forteo Cymbalta Strattera and Humulin.
Total operating expenses in 2013 decreased 1% driven by lower selling and marketing expenses partially offset by a 5% increase in R&amp;D expenses.
Finally net income increased 19% and EPS increased 22%.
The dynamics in our full year results reflect the execution of our strategy for managing one of the industries most challenging theories of patent expiration.
Driving strong performance in our growth areas and in our marketed brands that retain patent protection while increasing productivity across our business to fund R&amp;D necessary to fuel our future growth.
Our fourth quarter results remind us that 2014 is the most financially challenging year in this YZ period.
We are prepared for this challenge and our position to return to growth and expand margins in 2015 and beyond.
Slide 9 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS.
Additional details about our reported earnings are available in today’s earnings press release.
Moving to Slide 10 you can see the total revenue decline of 2% in Q4 2013 shown in the yellow box on the middle of the page was driven by a negative volume impact of 5% and a negative foreign exchange impact of 2% partially offset by a favorable price impact of 4%.
By geography you will notice that U.S volume decreased 17%.
This is due to the loss of exclusivity for Cymbalta.
Excluding Cymbalta U.S pharma volume increased more than 5%.
In Australia Canada and Europe or ACE you will see a negative 5% price impact.
This quarter’s price decline in ACE was slightly higher than prior quarters since we’re no longer recognizing amortization of the upfront payment by Daiichi Sankyo for Evista rights.
Favorable adjustments in a number of countries in Q4 2012 also led to a negative year-on-year comparison.
Excluding these items the price decline in ACE is consistent with prior quarters' declines.
In Japan we had another quarter of very strong volume growth up 17% driven primarily by Evista Forteo Tradjenta Strattera Zyprexa and Cymbalta.
That strong volume growth was again offset by the weakening of the yen.
We expect this robust growth to continue in 2014 as many of these products have several years of exclusivity remaining.
Turning to emerging markets we are pleased with the revenue growth of 7% in the face of a 4% negative impact from foreign exchange.
Volume growth was a robust 13% driven by strong performance in many countries in Latin and South America the Middle East and Africa.
China volume grew 7%.
Elanco Animal Health delivered revenue growth of 4%.
Excluding FX Elanco grew 6% in performance terms.
This performance growth was driven by higher prices for both food and companion animal products as well as by volume growth for food animal products.
This was partially offset by a volume decline for companion animal products.
Overall we continued to be pleased with Elanco performance and our well positioned to continue to outperform the industry.
Slide 11 shows the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on our 2013 results.
For both Q4 and full year 2013 FX had a negative effect on revenue growth.
In terms of cost of goods sold we saw a smaller benefit from the FX effect on international inventory sold in 2013 versus 2012.
As a result foreign exchange had a substantial negative effect on growth and operating income and earnings per share.
Now let me turn the call over to Derica.
Thanks Ilissa.
Slide 12 shows our pipeline as of January 23.
Changes since our last earnings call are highlighted with green arrows showing progression and red arrows showing attrition.
You notice that we've removed liprotamase from the pipeline.
Given our corporate investment priorities Lilly will not be pursuing further development of this molecule.
We began Phase 2 testing of the tau imaging agent that is being developed by our Avid radiopharmaceutical subsidiary.
We started Phase 1 testing for five assets and as Phil mentioned earlier we added Tanezumab to our Phase 3 portfolio to a collaboration with Pfizer.
Finally we terminated Phase 3 development of Edivoxetine and discontinued development of three Phase 2 assets and one Phase 1 asset.
With the number of encouraging data readouts in 2013 eight assets in Phase 3 four assets under regulatory review and more submission as possible this year we're confident in our ability to return to growth post 2014.
I would also like to point out that last month we completed enrollment and accelerate the Phase 3 trial evaluating evacetrapib in patients with established atherosclerosis at high risk for experiencing a cardiovascular event.
We successfully expedited this trial enrolling 12 000 patients in just over 12 months.
As a result we have accelerated the last patient visit for this study to January of 2016.
This is a great achievement by our evacetrapib team and we believe this speaks to the significant unmet patient need.
Based on lowering of LDL alone we believe it is possible to achieve the primary endpoint with significant statistical power.
We're also encouraged by the pharmacokinetic profile of evacetrapib as we've observed no clinically meaningful blood levels of the drug at four to six weeks after discontinuation.
We continue to be optimistic about the potential for this molecule to reduce CV events in the patient population being steady.
Also just last week results were published in the New England Journal of Medicine from the EXPEDITION and EXPEDITION 2 studies evaluating Solanezumab in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.
You may recall that in a pre-specified secondary analysis of patients with mild Alzheimer's disease pooled across both studies we saw a 34% reduction in cognitive decline as measured by ADAS-Cog14 and we saw an 18% reduction in functional decline as measured by ADCS-IADL.
We're now conducting a study called EXPEDITION 3 targeted to specifically a patient that we believe are most likely to benefit from treatment with Solanezumab.
Patients with mild Alzheimer's disease will test positive for the presence of amyloid pathology.
In August of last year the first patients were dosed in this study and we continue to target study completion by the end of 2016.
Currently there are no treatments for Alzheimer's that impact the underlying disease and we remain encouraged by the Solanezumab data.
While we understand investor interest will be focused on near-term launches and our diabetes and oncology businesses with mid-term launch opportunities coming from our autoimmune portfolio we do not want you to lose sight of these important opportunities for potential first-in-class medicines later this decade.
Next let me provide a recap of how key events played out in 2013 remind you of our key events for 2014 and quickly review our 2014 financial guidance.
Now as has become customary when we roll out our full year financial guidance we provide you a list of key events for the year.
And we update this list quarterly so you can track our progress.
As illustrated by the green checkmarks on Slide 13 you can see that we made significant advances in our pipeline in 2013.
We had positive data readouts for five Phase 3 assets and completed regulatory submissions for four while continuing to expect the necitumumab submission to be completed by the end of this year.
We initiated the Phase 3 study for Solanezumab in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease.
We defended Alimta method-of-use patent in a district court in Indianapolis and as Phil mentioned we've entered the final year of Years YZ with the expiration of Cymbalta's U.S.
patent.
2013 was a very productive year and we expect 2014 to be another busy year with significant pipeline activity and the potential for multiple product launches.
While I will not go through each item on Slide 14 we're excited about the opportunities we have to continue to advance our pipeline and the shared data that will not only help investors better judge our growth potential but also convey why we view this year as a new beginning in the next phase of Lilly's rich history.
We have the potential to initiate Phase 3 studies for two assets; our CDK4/6 inhibitor for cancer and our anti-sclerostin antibody for osteoporosis.
With respect to Phase 3 data we expect internal data readout leading to top line press releases or external detailed data disclosures for six of the eight Phase 3 assets and for all four of the assets that are in the regulatory review.
We also expect regulatory action for each of those four assets.
With respect to Alimta method-of-use patent we anticipate a ruling in the first half of this year.
Now as a reminder regardless of the district court decision we would expect one or more appeals to be made to the court of appeals for the federal circuit before litigation is resolved.
And finally we will lose patent protection for Evista in the U.S.
in March and data package exclusivity for Cymbalta will expire in Europe in the second half of this year although we do not expect generic duloxetine to enter the European market until 2015.
Now moving on to our financial guidance for 2014 we are reconfirming the 2014 guidance that was issued earlier this month.
If you are looking for additional color commentary on our 2014 guidance please refer to today's press release as well as the Investor section of lilly.com where you'll find the slides and audio from our January 7 guidance call.
Slide 16 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS for 2013 and the associated growth rates from these numbers to our 2014 guidance.
In summary we're pleased with the progress we made in 2013 implementing our three strategic priorities.
One replenishing and advancing our pipeline; two driving strong performance of our marketed brands in key growth areas and three increasing productivity and reducing our cost structure.
Our 2013 financial results was strong.
Eight of our products exceeded $1 billion in annual sales.
Japan and China delivered double-digit volume growth and Elanco continued to exceed overall industry growth.
As Phil stated earlier in the call excluding Cymbalta in the U.S.
our world-wide revenue grew a robust 9% in Q4.
This strong performance combined with our discipline in managing costs generated nearly $6 billion of operating cash flow covering capital expenditures of $1 billion our dividend of $2.1 billion and $1.7 billion of share repurchases.
As we turn to this year we anticipate a number of clinical trial readouts data presentations and regulatory submissions.
Most important we also expect to launch multiple products with more to follow in the coming years allowing Lilly to return to growth and expand margins post 2014.
So as I said on our guidance call earlier this month far from seeing 2014 as the low point in our journey through one of the industries' most challenging patent cliffs we see this year as an inflection point leading to our bright future.
We continue to believe that our innovation strategy is the right one to benefit patients and create value for our shareholders.
We look forward to providing more updates as we continue to execute this strategy.
This concludes our prepared remarks and now we’ll take your questions.
Operator the first caller please.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll go to the line of Steve Scala with Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Well thank you.
I have three questions.
First the R&amp;D as a percent of sales in Q4 is the highest it's been in at least a decade and higher than the YZ guidance and 2014 guidance.
So what were the particular dynamics around this spend in Q4.
Secondly assuming that Sanofi does sue Lilly in the next few days over the filing of the insulin glargine biosimilar; do you believe that they will enjoy the full 30 months or does Lilly believe a quicker resolution can be gained? And then lastly your comment about the blood levels of either cetrapib four to six weeks after a discontinuation I guess was meant to contrast it with anacetrapib’s very long half-life other than some theoretical concern about long half-life’s.
What specifically should we be concerned with anacetrapib? Thank you.
Steve thanks for the question.
So for the R&amp;D percent we’ll have Derica provide a comment there.
I’ll then comment on the Sanofi question maybe let Jan comment for the anacetrapib accumulation comment from the call text.
Derica.
Sure.
Hi Steve good morning.
Hey when we look at our Q4 spend we are very pleased with how we came in.
As it relates to R&amp;D that spend was driven by additional investments in our research as well as some clinical development.
And we did have the opportunity to make some incremental investments in the fourth quarter both in R&amp;D as well as in SGA and some of that was also in preparation for the upcoming launches that we anticipate later this year in 2014.
And then Steve this is Phil for your question on Sanofi and whether should they sue us; they would enjoy the full benefit of the 30 months for the 30 month stay.
At this point it's premature to speculate on how that may play out.
We have as its required notified Sanofi of our acceptance of our filing with the FDA and that’s where things stand as of today.
So there maybe more developments in the future but it will be premature to comment at this time.
Jan? Regarding the half-life’s we see this more as a general comment here that most medicines on the market today be category as small molecules usually have a short half-life which is actually what you want should there be any unforeseen side effects and always when you do large Phase 3 clinical trials that this isn’t unknown until you have all the data.
So I think you should see this just as a very unusual situation that you have a small molecular agent with this very long half-life that anacetrapib has and it remains to be seen.
Now then if there are any side effects what is the consequences? Thank you Jan.
Akhili next caller please.
We’ll go to the line of Mark Schoenebaum with ISI Group.
Hi its Mark can you hear me? Sorry about that.
Yes we can.
Okay sorry about that.
Hey I just wanted to ask a quick question on Ramucirumab.
The second line lung cancer trial that’s ongoing.
Our understanding is that a lot of those patients are Avastin naïve in that trial.
Is that something that you could help us you could confirm or deny possibly.
And then what is the hypothesis that Ram may have a better risk benefit in the squamous population than Avastin.
And then finally on AWARD-6 is non-purity enough to maximize the potential of that product.
And most importantly congratulations to Phil and Derica on your recognition (indiscernible).
Thanks Mark.
We aren’t quite in a level of being inducting to the hall of fame yet but thanks for the shout.
Hey for the Ramucirumab question second-line lung Travis do you want to pick a shot at that.
And then Travis or Jan if you want to comment maybe on the hypothesis of why Ramucirumab may or may not be better than Avastin in the squamous population and then I'll handle the question that you have Mark on the non-inferiority already for (indiscernible).
So Mark for REVEL which is our second-line lung cancer trial with Ramucirumab plus paclitaxel.
I think you asked and I am going to make sure I get this right that a lot of the patients and Avastin naïve so you’re getting to the point where we have allowed for some patients to be treated with Avastin I would classify that as a small number that patients that will be treated with Avastin in the first line.
Great.
And any commentary on the hypothesis of why we maybe better in squamous relative to Avastin; Jan any thoughts on the two molecules? Clearly we need to see the final data.
And I can just refer to as we have said before that Ram and Avastin had different mechanism of action and Ram there not only interferes in a way then with the receptor activation but it also internalizes the receptor whilst then Avastin is only blocking one of the younger genesis mediators but in the end we need to see the data.
Yeah and as we talked about in the past we’ve been very pleased that we say mono-therapy efficacy in advanced gastro cancer and then obviously reinforced with the combination efficacy that we saw in that similar setting.
But again until we have the data from the other tumor types if I would be pre mature to comment whether the differences that Jan articulated will lead to either tolerability safety or efficacy differences.
And we have no direct head-to-head as well as a reminder.
For the non-inferiority for the AWARD-6 trial this is a trial that is set up with the intent of showing non-inferiority.
We have received a number of investor questions analysis questions over the last month or so around whether we’re attempting to show non-inferiority or whether we’re really hoping in attempting to show superiority.
And it is to show non-inferiority versus the highest dose in a forced titration trial of Victoza.
There had been two other competitive molecules that have run similar trials and have failed to show non-inferiority.
We would definitely look at showing non-inferiority with a high dose of Victoza as being a win in achieving our goals toward that study.
If we do achieve non-inferiority we certainly will test for superiority but it would not be our expectation that that would be a high likelihood at current given the profiles of the two molecules as we know them.
I think the other this is Jan likewise I think the other thing is just the presentation of the product to launch weekly format.
The straight forward nature of the injection and the injection device which many of our investors were able to see for themselves when we had our meeting here in October so I think having solid non-inferiority data across the whole broad spectrum of comparators coupled with the product itself I think should give us a light there.
And one of the main reasons for doing the study Mark was essentially from a pricing reimbursement and access perspective.
You might do your own research on price levels but essentially you got a price level in the marketplace sort of base price level defined by BYDUREON Byetta and the 1.2 milligram dose of Victoza which means that the 1.8 actually carries a 50% premium to that.
So showing non-inferiority with that particular dose we believe would place us in a good stat as we have those discussions with payers downstream.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Akhili next caller please? We’ll go to the line of Chris Schott with JPMorgan.
Great thanks very much.
Two questions the first is on the CDK 4/6 program.
Can you just talk a little bit more about the timelines in breast cancer here? I guess specifically once you start the Phase 3 how quickly do you think you can enroll and see outcomes from your study.
And while we’re talking about that can you just also elaborate a little more of the impact you think in early Pfizer filing an approval if that happened it would have on the competitive dynamics in this space.
The second question I had was on diabetes.
We’re seeing some of these national formularies moving to a single covered product in any given category not just tier 2 or 3 but a single product.
Can you give us what percent of market in your view is impacted by those national formularies? And once a provider selects a preferred product how difficult is it going to be or would it be to displace that product once someone is down to the effort of actually moving over in a particular account et cetera I should understand competitive dynamics going forward as this trend plays through? Thanks very much.
Thanks Chris so the CDK 4/6 you want to go ahead and start us off Travis.
Yes.
So Chris unfortunately I can’t directly answer your question because we have not yet announced which tumors we'll be pursuing for Phase 3 development but do hope to – as I mentioned on the guidance call in early January do hope to get you further data from both lung and breast from our kind of Phase 1b/cohort expansions that we performed as part of that trial in the first half of this year as well as announced which tumors we do intend to take forward in Phase 3 in the first half of this year.
Then on the diabetes questions that you had Chris so I don't think we have a percent of covered lives that would be our national formulary for example or somewhat like ESI but it is only a portion of their business for example.
I guess maybe a better way to answer your question would be to point that these more highly controlled formularies are a minority of the business in the U.S.
I think the best evidence for that is that you can look into the last two three years as you've seen some of these larger plans switch to sole source for one of the two insulin you've seen shares moderate maybe by a couple of percentage points in the overall market share for the mealtime insulin.
So again these are a sizable swing but it's not like you're having the majority of the market moving at any one point in time.
In terms of switching there certainly are difficulties in switching so I think payors from our experience don't do this lightly and I think it'd be unlikely over time to be switching every two or three years from one product to another.
We continue to think that having multiple products available in the class is in the best interest of patients and actually we think long-term probably in the best interest of payors as well so they can continue to have a competitive dynamic and not have a significant amount of inconvenience for patients but they're trying to get into their plans as they make these kinds of decisions.
So we'll continue to as we have in the past argue for dual access on the various products that we are involved in selling and where that's possible that's great.
If not then we'll have to make the decisions that we need to make have our products available to patients here in the U.S.
market.
Akhili next caller please.
That will come from the line of Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
John this is a question for you.
You guys have been kind of quiet on the M&amp;A front.
We've seen tremendous amounts of M&amp;A across other sectors in healthcare and I'm just wondering if you can comment on your appetite for M&amp;A? Lilly has been in a rumor recently to be interested in an oncology company but just talk about the importance of M&amp;A to achieving your goals and what specific areas you'd be interested in? And at the same time in your discussion about business development maybe if you can throw in there your views on Elanco and how you see that business going forward if you would consider as some of your competitors have done spinning that business out? Thanks.
Okay.
Thanks Jami for the question.
On the pharma side we continue to have no appetite for large scale M&amp;A in the pharma business.
If we were to undertake smaller kind of acquisitions I think the best way to think about that is they would have to complement or strengthen areas of focus – our therapeutic areas of focus or provide us with additional coverage or leverage in key geographies.
With respect to Elanco I think we've said that we intend to be buyers and not sellers in the Animal Health space.
We've done more or less one or two acquisitions smaller acquisitions every year for the past five or six years.
We've growth this business nicely over this period through a combination actually of inorganic moves and organic growth.
We're going to be – continue to be interested in M&amp;A in the Animal Health area that helps us increase our coverage in the area of vaccines and also provide us with a greater presence in some of the key emerging markets.
I will say obviously we completed our largest M&amp;A in our history about five years ago and based on the data that we've seen for ramucirumab and necitumumab that seems to be playing out quite well.
And I'm also pleased that as we begin to exit this YZ period we do so with a very strong balance sheet.
Thanks John.
Akhili next caller please.
We'll go to the line of Gregg Gilbert with Bank of America.
I have a few.
Thanks John for that very clear description of M&amp;A.
If we are to think – for John Lechleiter if we were to think a 2014 as a year of (indiscernible) which hopefully sets you up for some nice growth for several years based on sort of singles and doubles as the Street sees them do you think there's any other key shareholder value drivers that investors don't fully appreciate that perhaps are clear in your mind? My other question is on the ram.
I know you're ready to launch ram in gastric as quickly after it happens but do you think the system's ready to provide access for docs to use the product in a broader patient population as is probably the case in your market research? And then AWARD-6 what's the most granular timing you can offer? Phil I'm sure some folks will ask it after the call.
Thanks.
Sure.
So John do you want to start out with the first question maybe Travis answer the question on ramucirumab and I'll take the AWARD-6 timing question.
Gregg I think first of all while we intended to get back on a growth trajectory through the launch of new products I think that the fourth quarter was 9% underlying growth in those products not affected by essentially other than Cymbalta U.S.
situation.
I think if all goes well for solid growth from this basket of currently marketed products that we have that's going to be important to sort of underpin our launches in the years ahead.
We continue to do very well in Japan.
I think our volume growth in Japan for the year was 13%.
We're now squarely in that top 20 in Japan.
We continue to on an annual basis to more or less lead that market in growth across all of our major competitors; global pharma and the local Japanese company.
In China despite a slowdown we saw 12% revenue growth in China for the year.
I continue to believe that emerging markets represented good investment.
Keep in mind emerging markets are a relatively smaller piece of Lilly's than they are many other companies.
I mean typically our larger competitors have about 20% of revenue in emerging markets.
I think we're closer to about 12%.
I look at that as a key opportunity for growth.
We have a great business in Latin America.
For example we're expanding our presence in other countries where traditionally we've not have a presence there.
So I think that's another area of interest.
We talked about Elanco already.
We're very bullish on Elanco's prospects.
We see good positive synergies between Elanco and Lilly and yet we believe Elanco has the operating independence that it needs to compete with competitors that are reshaping themselves.
I think in terms of value creation so we're launching a cancer drug hopefully this year and two drugs in type 2 diabetes.
Those are launching the infrastructures that are well built out and so we've called that out to investors but I think that's important to keep in mind.
The other piece was just the work we've done on infrastructure.
I mean this is a different company today than the company of the last decade.
We've had to prepare for this very very difficult period and we've made some choices.
We haven't wasted the crisis as the old saying goes.
We're more agile we're leaner.
I think we're better operators today and I believe that will pay off in terms of success to these launches that lie up ahead of us.
Thanks John.
Travis? Thanks Gregg.
With respect to your question on ramucirumab obviously we're very pleased that we now have two positives Phase 3 trials for gastric cancer.
Look forward to receiving the regulatory action for the regard submission in the U.S.
Q2 of this year and then look forward to submitting the RAINBOW data to the U.S.
in the first half of this year.
Outside of gastric cancer clearly we're looking forward to getting the data from the three ongoing trials that we have and second-line lung second-line liver and second-line metastatic colorectal cancer.
We'll look to use that data and obviously take that data on board and expand that potentially into further development opportunities for ram.
So we're very pleased with the prospects we have with ramucirumab and look forward to giving those three data points on lung liver and colorectal later this year.
Gregg the strength of the data will likely also dictate not only physicians' interest in prescribing but also kind of access and the speed of access that we might be able to achieve.
For AWARD-6 timing we would look to press release the top line results of this study.
Although this is not sort of a pivotal study for our registrations submissions to regulators we recognize that this trial was of high interest to the investment community so we do intend to have a top line press release of whatever the outcome is and we would expect from a timing perspective that that would be a release we'll be issuing here in the first quarter of the year and hopefully have a chance if the timing lines up to present that data at a medical meeting in the middle part of the year.
Akhili next caller please.
We will go to the line of David Risinger with Morgan Stanley.
Yes thanks very much.
I have a couple of questions please.
First maybe Derica you could just talk about any wholesaler inventory changes of note in the fourth quarter and how you finish the year? And then second with respect to Alimta in the EU could you please discuss what we should expect from the appellate court of patent decision in terms of timing in ’14 and maybe you can just frame it for us and I’m forgetting exactly which countries this decision will apply to but if you could discuss that and I think that covers it.
Thank you.
Great Dave.
Thank you very much.
Derica on the wholesaler inventory? Hi Dave.
Good morning.
On the whole -- we did have in the U.S some wholesaler inventory build.
One other phenomenon we did see also is that while that was building at the wholesaler level we believe that there was a depletion of inventory at the retail level.
So long-term we believe this year it will work itself out and we’re not concerned about that goal as we think about our 2014 outlook.
Great.
And then our Alimta in the EU Dave real quick summary of a landscape there so there is one action you didn’t act -- ask about specifically but I do want to comment on which is the European Patent Office where the patent itself had been challenged.
You may recall that the initial hearing judgment went in Lilly’s favor and that has now been appealed to the Board of Interferences within the European Patent Office.
We still have no date for that hearing.
Separately from the proceedings in the European Patent Office there are two countries that have ongoing legal proceeding.
The first is Germany where I believe there is a trial that could come as early as March of this year and then U.K.
which is in April.
In the future I can tell it will be a single European Patent Court to hear and decide cases more broadly across the European Union.
That's not the case right now so the cases that will be heard in Germany and U.K.
would explicitly apply to those markets in other countries based on those rulings we have to make their own determination.
Yes just one quick follow-up.
Can you just give us a framework for what percentage of the ex-U.S Alimta sales come from the EU? Sure.
I will see if we can grab that here relatively quickly from -- the secret book (indiscernible) that you guys have this detail just if you have not been following this little bi quietly but in the October call Q3 call you may have seen that we expanded the disclosures for product sales breaking out international sales by the ACE region which is Australia Canada Europe Japan and emerging markets to respond to some request that we had to provide much more clarity around product sales and particular for Japan and emerging markets.
Hopefully you find that as interest.
I’m looking actually at the public book now rather than the secret book.
So in the fourth quarter our international total Alimta sales were about $394 million.
About $235 million of that Dave came from the ACE region.
The vast majority of which would have been coming from Europe itself.
And we had about another $90 million roughly coming from Japan and almost $70 million from the emerging markets.
Got it.
Thanks so much.
You’re welcome.
We will go next to the line of Tim Anderson with Sanford Bernstein.
Thank you.
Couple of questions.
One necitumumab how confident are you that the drug is approvable in lung now that you have positive results in hand at your top line last fall and what’s the development program from here? We’ve seen that with positive lung results you would be pushing into broader development but I haven’t heard you yet articulate what’s next? Are you going to hold off during anything until you see whether the drug gets approved in lung? And second question on your two insulins novel basal and insulin glargine wondering if you can characterize what you think the bigger commercial opportunity would be with either of those drugs when you look at over say the next five years? Great Tim.
Thanks for the question.
So in terms of the confidence in necitumumab being approvable and also thoughts on the development plan from here maybe we will start with Travis and Jan if you have any thoughts you would like to add and then I will comment on the comment you had on the opportunity with the two basal insulins.
Yes Tim this is Travis.
I would say we are pleased with the top line results of improving overall survival in front line squamous non-small cell lung cancer.
Clearly squamous non-small cell lung cancer has been one of those more difficult -- I'll call it more difficult diseases to treat say vis-à-vis non-squam.
At this time we’re pleased with the risk benefit profile we have and look forward to getting those more detailed data in front of you at ASCO.
With respect to next steps cylinder evaluation as to what next steps may look like for necitumumab development.
So hopefully we’ll have more details to share later on that this year.
And then Tim in terms of the two insulin so with the insulin glargine product we see ourselves very well positioned as one of the few companies that’s well positioned to have success with this kind of opportunity given the expertise we have in the space the ongoing commitment to developing devices over time strong relationships that we have with physicians.
We believe this is a very important opportunity for us to really begin to establish a foothold in the Basal Insulin segment which we’ve really not been participating in up until this point.
The commercial opportunity for the Novel Basal Insulin could be very substantial but it really will depend upon that clinical profile that we see in the Phase 3 trials.
There were some very encouraging signs that we saw in Phase 2 as we share with you at ABA and in subsequent meeting with the profiles that we saw for reduction in HbA1c the weight profile reduction in all time insulin usage relative to the current standard of care Basal Insulin which is these are confirmed at multiple these are confirmed in the Phase 3 trials couldn’t be that probably to have a very substantial opportunity.
We have also been very clear that if this product does not differentiate substantially from Lantus if I’m more likely then not that it would not be launched and not be a viable product and therefore our efforts we focus really on the insulin glargine product solely.
So again until we see the data it's very difficult to know.
We do have trials for the Novel Basal Insulin that began to wrap up late last year with one of them a number of them then over Q1 Q2 and Q3 of this year we would hope to have enough of those trials in house probably by the middle part of the year will be able to issue a top line press release updating all of you on the progress to date with those trials.
So encouraged and anxious for those outcomes.
Stay tuned for a top line later this year.
Akhili next caller please? We’ll go to the line of John Boris with SunTrust Robinson.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Thanks for taking the questions and congratulations on the results.
Just on Ramucirumab and your filing in Japan is it possible just to get an update on the timing of any additional work that needs to go on there and the timing for the filing.
And then secondly a question for Jan just on the CDK 4/6 there’s a lot of preclinical data out there but what are the main features your advantages and benefits of your CDK relative to the other compounds when you evaluate them and consider taking -- when you consider evaluating to take it into Phase 3 development? Thanks.
Thanks John.
Travis do you want to start? Yeah thanks John.
So we do have a bit of an update versus the guidance call that we provide -- guidance call provided earlier on the Japanese filing for Ramucirumab which is again is to remind folks it's based on the rainbow data where we had about a third of the patients were from Asian countries.
So we look to be able to file that submission by the end of this year.
Jan? Okay so regarding CDK 4/6 as you know this is a very exciting area and but what we have seen on our compound and in the initial clinical trials that shows a single agent activity which wasn’t really I think what Pfizer emphasized for their molecules.
So here we see a potential efficacy benefit.
Further more we can do continuous dosing without interruption based on our safety profile.
And there the Pfizer molecule had issues and has to have intermittent dosing and we believe that potentially to have a continuous coverage can gain efficacy.
Thank you Jan.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
You’re welcome John.
Akhili next caller please? We’ll go to the line of Vamil Divan with Credit Suisse.
Yes thanks for taking the question.
Just two that I have; one on Ixekizumab I appreciate the update you guys gave there on the trial.
Just wondering if there’s any interim reason you could point us to and the timing of when those might occur now just that might lead to the trial or data earlier than the I guess 2016 timeframe you mentioned.
And the other one just on the autoimmune side (indiscernible) you had today in terms of biosimilar [ph] just a status of how that the Phase 2b study is going there.
And if you could also talk about how you are looking at making a decision there to moving into Phase 3 does it separate from waiting to see the data exceed or is there some – are you going to look to see how those fair against each other just given Lilly's [ph] partnered obviously with (indiscernible)? Thanks.
Okay.
Jan would you like to take the Ixekizumab question and Jan and Travis comment on the autoimmune please.
Yes.
There is room for an interim analysis on the Ixekizumab which we don't want really to comment on with the exact timing of.
If you refer to the ongoing Phase 2 trials was that the psoriasis indication then where we have data which we are currently evaluating and I think we will communicate the first four but in due course.
(Indiscernible) we actually do look to disclose that psoriasis data in the first half of this year.
Akhili our next caller please.
We'll go to the line of Marc Goodman with UBS.
Yes good morning.
You talked a little bit about the emerging markets.
Can you talk about some of the countries where you are making investments? And second China seems to have slowed in the fourth quarter but it did well throughout the year so I'm just curious is there anything is there any trend going on was there something that happened in the fourth quarter specifically? And if so has it carried over into January? And then when you answered the question about the biosimilar for Lantus before I wasn't sure whether – did you confirm that you've actually filed a Paragraph 4 and notified the branded company? And then third just on diabetes how do you see this market playing out with respect to the SGL-2s and the DPP-4s and are you hearing anything behind-the-scenes on how (indiscernible) is doing and if the SGL-2 is moving in front of DPP-4 as far as therapy? Thanks.
Thanks Marc.
We'll have Derica answer the first question about emerging markets where we're investing and what we're seeing in terms of the growth in the fourth quarter and then I'll take your diabetes questions.
Sure.
Marc in terms of the emerging markets as John indicated earlier clearly China is a key beachhead at least for Lilly within the grouping of emerging markets but other markets such as Brazil Mexico Korea Russia Turkey as well as India are key footprints for us as we think about leveraging some of the key therapeutic areas that are doing well in those markets today which are diabetes and oncology which is obviously a quarter of what we do.
So we continue to see emerging markets as a strong opportunity for us.
In regards to your particular question around China itself overall we have seen the China market growth slowing okay so that is a factor that we're picking up but it's still very robust when you compare it relative to the rest of the world.
So we don't see backing off investment and our focus in that market.
Another factor that we believe is affecting the growth in that market at least in 2013 was the anticorruption scandal that was going on there and it was really affecting primarily the multinational big pharma companies there.
Hopefully that will begin to subside as we were closing our 2013 and we're not anticipating any significant re-impact in that in 2014.
Then Marc on your question for [Technical Difficulty] actually quite pleased to see the kind of uptake that (indiscernible) has experienced in the U.S.
marketplace in particular.
There was a lot of discussion prior to the approval and launch of that product that many observers were thinking this product class was not going to have a significant adoption by physicians.
So I think we're pleased as observers who could be coming relatively soon with one of our own and also potentially the first to have a combination product of a DPP-4 with a SGLT2 but there seems to be pretty good acceptance for this mechanism and the efficacy tolerability safety profile that at least the (indiscernible) carries.
So we're looking forward to coming into the marketplace ourselves as well.
The DPP-4 market growth has slowed in part due to the uptake of canagliflozin.
We do expect long-term with the underlying demographics and market dynamics we'll continue to see robust growth in both of these areas of the oral diabetes class; so looking forward to participating in both these classes going forward.
Akhili next caller please.
We'll go to the line of Alex Arfaei with BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the question.
Following up on the SGLT2 are there any updates on the manufacturing issues you discussed on your last call? And when can you expect a resolution? And also you don't have the ample Phase 3 trials listed as external readout.
I'm wondering if that's for competitive reasons or whether it's up to your partner.
Thank you.
Great.
So I'll take you questions.
Alex this is Phil.
May take the second one first.
We actually had many of those trials presented at ADA last year and that was sort of the big coming-out party if you will for the data from that Phase 3 program.
Not all of the trials were presented there.
So as we go through 2014 I'm sure we'll additional data presentations.
But again the bulk of that data wasn't presented at ADA last year.
In terms of the timing on the manufacturing issues the re-inspection the BI [ph] we'll be having pursuant to their warning letter there are no updates at this point in time.
As we mentioned on the guidance call there is re-inspections scheduled for the first quarter and also coming up in the not-too-distant future have the potential action date for the submission that we have from PEG lispro [ph].
So we'll keep you guys appraised as the situation evolves but there are no updates from earlier this month.
Akhili next caller please.
We'll go to the line of Seamus Fernandez with Leerink.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
So I have a few questions.
First regarding PEG lispro do you have any new data either from Phase 3 or other ongoing studies in-house? And if so do these data provide any greater comfort around the liver safety of PEG lispro? Second on necitumumab did the SQUIRE study include any pre-specified biomarker evaluations? And if so could you just disclose what these pre-specified analyses were? Third on CDK4/6 can you remind us the specific expansion cohorts that will see more data on this year and maybe remind us the percent of lung cancer patients that have K-Ras mutant status? And then the last question is finally can you just update us on your plans for your TGF-beta in liver cancer given some of the promising data that you presented at ASCO-GI I believe? Thanks.
Okay.
We were furiously writing everything here so let's see if we got all these.
So let me start out with the PEG lispro question.
As I mentioned earlier we have begun to have the first trial essentially wrap-up in that program.
We won't provide a running commentary as a single trial comes out as we've done for example with the dulaglutide trials where we waited until we had AWARDs 1 3 and 5 before issuing a top line press release.
We'll be doing the same thing with the studies for the Basel insulin PEG lispro.
And then Squire this was out of pre-specified biomarkers.
I don't know Travis if you're able to find anything in our – we need to get back to you Seamus on the pre-specified biomarker question.
I think there were some there but we don't have the details with us.
So we'll follow-up on that one.
The CDK 4/6 the expansion cohorts do you want to comment what those were Travis? Yes.
Those will be – we did expansion cohorts for a few tumors coming out of that Phase 1b.
Most prominently were breast and lung but I believe there were a couple of others melanoma and potentially one other that I need to follow-up on Seamus.
And there was a question on percent of K-Ras mutant and Seamus were you asking about that with regard to colorectal or with regard to lung or what was your – I missed the tumor type you were asking about? More with regard to lung.
Okay.
We may need to follow-up on that because I don't think we got that date with us.
John do you have anything on that one? No.
I think I can just say that we have included the K-Ras mutant as one potential interesting area.
And then the TGF-beta data presented as part of the recent medical meeting was definitely very encouraging.
The team is working through so what the next steps are for development of that molecule.
And I think probably later this year that we can hopefully have an update for you on those plans.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks Seamus.
Akhili next caller please? We will go to line of Jeff Holford with Jefferies.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my call.
Just two questions around diabetes.
First if you could just -- a bit more color on the pricing you’ve put through any recent pricing increases across the insulin portfolio as well as just a cumulative last 12 months price increases you had across the portfolio.
Also just another question around the insulin glargine product.
I think I’m correct in saying you don’t -- you have a device that’s sort of public on notable use that is suitable for administrating a basal insulin in terms of the number of units that’s required.
We are unable to detect any patent application for such a device.
So maybe if you could just talk about that a little bit where you sort of think you’re and what’s your long-term game plan with devices for the insulin glargine? Thank you.
Okay.
So for the price increase piece you have I don’t think we have that with us.
You can follow on Jeff after the call on the recent price increases.
There were a couple of different price increases over the course of 2013.
I think the last one in December but we can follow-up you with the specific numbers for those.
For the presentations we’d use for commercialization of the insulin glargine product we’ve not been specific on our plans other than the state that we’re definitely looking at multiple options.
We also believe that we’d be in a position to commercialize that products upon expiration of the Lantus compound patent in early 2015.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Akhili next caller please? There are no further questions in queue from the phone.
All right great.
Well thank you very much for your attention on today’s call.
We appreciate your interest in Eli Lilly &amp; Company.
Going forward we will continue to do what we did today and on our guidance call which has to exhaust the questions in the queue.
Hopefully you will find that helpful to get your questions answered in a timely manner.
We look forward to interacting with you at upcoming meetings conferences and keep you appraised of our progress which hopefully will be considerable this year in advancing the pipeline and beginning to launch new products to position ourselves for growth coming out of 2014.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen today’s conference will be available for replay after 11 AM Eastern Time today running through February 6 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T replay system by dialing 1800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 314853.
International participants may dial 320-365-3844.
The numbers again are 1800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 with the access code of 314853.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Eli Lilly First Quarter 2014 Earning Call.
For the conference all participants are in a listen-only mode.
There will be an opportunity for your questions and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
And as a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
I will turn the conference now over to your host Mr.
John Lechleiter Chairman President and CEO.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for the second time this week today to discuss Eli Lilly &amp; Company's first quarter 2014 earnings.
I’m John Lechleiter Chairman President and CEO.
This quarter and going forward we're taking a slightly different approach to our quarterly calls we are bringing more of our senior leaders into the room to participate and to answer your questions and we hope that this enhances the quality of the information we are able to provide you during these sessions.
So joining me today are on the call are Derica Rice our Chief Financial Officer; Dr.
Jan Lundberg President of Lilly Research Laboratories; Sue Mahony President of Lilly Oncology; Enrique Conterno President of Lilly Diabetes; Dave Ricks President of Lilly Bio-Medicines; Jeff Simmons President of Elanco Animal Health and Phil Johnson and Ilissa Rassner of Lilly Investor Relations team.
During this conference call as usual we anticipate making projections and forward looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on slide three and those outlined in our latest forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
Before covering our first quarter 2014 results I’d like to share some high level observations.
Lilly continues to make good progress in executing the strategy we laid out nearly five years ago to navigate through this period of unprecedented loss of the revenue and income precipitated by patent explorations for several of our largest products.
We have continued to invest in R&amp;D and have successfully replenished our late stage pipeline.
The first fruits of these efforts are manifest in the approval on Monday evening of Cyramza by the U.S.
FDA.
We have three other molecules currently under regulatory review with more to follow soon and we have the very real prospect of launching two additional NMEs empagliflozin and dulaglutide in major markets later this year.
We had focused our business in core therapeutic areas including diabetes oncology neuroscience and animal health.
In oncology our 2008 acquisition of ImClone is paying off while in diabetes our global partnership with Boehringer Ingelheim will enable us to launch two potential best in class oral agents in a three year period.
And you know about Elanco Animal Health soon to be the second largest enterprise of its kind following our acquisitions of Lohmann Animal Health and Novartis Animal Health.
Finally we worked tirelessly and largely behind the scenes to reshape every aspect of our company to reduce costs improve quality and productivity and to regain the customer focus that has been at the heart of Lilly's historic record of success.
Today we are a more capable more agile and more focused competitors than ever before.
While we will never declare a victory we are encouraged by our progress through this most difficult period and with every positive data read out and every regulatory filing more and more confidence at this company is on a clear trajectory for success.
All of this further [builds] our confidence that 2014 is indeed an inflection point for Lilly leading to a bright future.
Now with that framing let me get into the meat of today's call by highlighting key events that have occurred since last quarter's call and it's certainly been an event till last three months what we believe shows great promise in the execution of our strategy.
On the regulatory front the first quarter was another eventful period.
In oncology the FDA approved ramucirumab as a single-agent treatment for patients with advanced or metastatic gastric cancer with disease progression after prior chemotherapy.
With this approval ramucirumab becomes the first FDA approved treatment for patients in the study.
This is an important milestone for patients with this difficult to treat disease.
It is the third leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide.
In coming weeks we will make the product commercially available under the trade name Cyramza.
In diabetes the FDA issued a complete response letter for empagliflozin.
The letter cited the need to resolve previously observed deficiencies at the Boehringer Ingelheim facility where empagliflozin will be manufactured.
The FDA did not ask for any new clinical trials to support the approval of the applications.
FDA has completed its inspection of this facility and Boehringer Ingelheim has provided its responses to the FDA’s observation.
At this time we cannot comment on exactly when we will resubmit the empagliflozin NDA.
However we continue to expect FDA actions in 2014.
In late March Europe CHMP issued a positive opinion recommending approval of empagliflozin as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes.
Assuming the European Commission follows the CHMP recommendation and approves empagliflozin we anticipate launch of the product in European countries beginning in the third quarter.
Meanwhile earlier this month Australia became the first market to approve empagliflozin under the trade name Jardiance.
We also announced that the NDA for the fixed dose combination of empagliflozin and linagliptin has been accepted for review by the FDA.
We’re optimistic that this first in class fixed dose combination of a DPP-4 inhibitor with an SGLT2 inhibitor could provide a valuable additional treatment option for patients with type 2 diabetes.
Finally the FDA issued a complete response letter for the NDA for Humalog U-200 KwikPen a concentrated version of Humalog.
We expect to resubmit the NDA before the end of the year.
In clinical news we announced that the Phase III REVEL trial studying ramucirumab in second-line non-small cell lung cancer met its primary endpoint as patients treated with ramucirumab plus docetaxel experienced an improvement in overall survival compared to patients treated with placebo plus docetaxel.
We intend to submit the first application of these data to regulatory authorities in 2014 and will present the detailed data at ASCO later this year.
This marks the third positive Phase III trial with ramucirumab.
We are pleased with this continued progress which confirms the promise we saw on this molecule when we acquired ImClone.
At the AACR meeting earlier this month we presented data from the Phase I trial of our CDK 4/6 inhibitor bemaciclib.
These data were from a cohort expansion in patients with advanced breast cancer and supported our decision to begin our Phase 3 program in breast cancer.
You may have seen that the first Phase III trial has been posted on clinicaltrials.gov and will begin this summer.
We are pleased with the single agent activity seen in this patient cohort as well as the product safety profile and believe we could have a best in class molecule.
Moving to diabetes we announced that the AWARD-6 trial comparing once weekly dulaglutide 1.5 mg to once daily liraglutide 1.8 mg met its endpoint of non-inferiority in the reduction of HbA1c from baseline at 26 weeks.
Dulaglutide is the only GLP-1 agonist to show non-inferiority against liraglutide highest approved dose in a Phase III study.
We look forward to presenting the detailed data at ADA later this year.
In business development news earlier this week as I mentioned earlier we announced an agreement to acquire Novartis Animal Health for approximately $5.4 billion.
We’re excited to combine two premier and complementary animal health companies which will create a new top tier global animal health player one that will continue to lead in innovation and customer value.
We expect the acquisition to close by the end of the first quarter of next year.
As you will recall we also announced in February an agreement to acquire Lohmann Animal Health a privately-held German company that is a global leader in poultry vaccines.
This acquisition expected to close this quarter; we’ll establish Elanco as a global poultry leader and solidify Elanco’s vaccine presence and manufacturing capabilities.
In other news the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of Indiana ruled in Lilly’s favor upholding the U.S.
Vitamin Dosage Regimen Patent for Alimta which expires in May 2022.
The German Court also ruled in Lilly’s favor confirming that Alimta’s European vitamin dosage regimen patent would be infringed by the contemplated entry of Actavis’ generic pemetrexed dipotassium product in Germany prior to June 2021.
We’re pleased with these rulings and are confident that these patents are valid and enforceable.
Also in the news the Sanofi filed a lawsuit in the U.S.
District Court for the district of Delaware alleging that our new insulin glargine product for which we are seeking FDA approval infringes certain of their patents.
We do not believe that the application for approval of our new insulin glargine product infringes any valid claim of the asserted patents.
On March 2nd U.S.
patent protection for Evista expire.
After a short delay generic raloxifene is now on the market.
And we’ve entered into an agreement with Prasco to sell and authorized generic raloxifene.
In an act those product liability case in Louisiana a jury found in favor of the plaintiffs awarding compensatory damages and significant punitive damages.
Lilly disagrees with the verdict and intends to vigorously challenge this outcome.
The agreement between Lilly and Takeda calls for Takeda to defend and indemnify Lilly for losses and expenses with respect to the U.S.
litigation.
After the verdict was entered in this case Takeda notified Lilly that it was reserving its right to challenge its obligations to defend and indemnify Lilly with respect to the Allen case only.
Lilly believes it is entitled to full defense and indemnification of its losses and expenses related to Allen and in all other U.S.
cases.
Finally during the first quarter we executed share repurchases totaling $55 million under our $5 billion share repurchase program.
We now have $4.4 billion remaining in the program which we expect to complete over a multi-year period.
And now I’ll turn the call over to Phil for a discussion of our financial performance for the quarter.
Great.
Thanks John.
First I'll review our GAAP results and then discuss a few non-GAAP measures to provide some additional insight into the underlying trends in our business.
On slide 7 you can see that revenue in Q1 2014 was $4.7 billion $0.16 below Q1 2013.
This decline reflects a full quarter effect of the Cymbalta U.S.
patent expiration as well as the initial effect of the Evista U.S.
patent expiration.
Excluding Cymbalta and Evista in the U.S the rest of our worldwide revenue grew 1%.
It is also worth noting that wholesaler purchasing patterns substantially dampen the U.S.
revenue growth in the first quarter.
Excluding this effect of rest of our worldwide revenue would have grown 4%.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue decreased 5.4 percentage points driven largely by the loss of Cymbalta’s U.S.
exclusivity and to a lesser extent of a loss of Evista U.S.
exclusivity as well as by the impact of foreign exchange rates on international inventories sold.
This quarter foreign exchange rates on international inventories sold had a negative effect on gross margin.
However in Q1 2013 foreign exchange rates on international inventories sold provided a benefit to our gross margin.
Excluding this FX effect from both 2013 and 2014 gross margin as a percent of revenue declined from 79.1% in Q1 2013 to 75.8% in Q1 2014.
As in past quarters we've included a supplementary slide providing our gross margin percent for the last 10 quarters with and without this FX effect.
Non-GAAP measures are shown on slide 8.
Total operating expense defined as the sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A decreased more than $400 million or 14% versus Q1 of 2013.
Marketing selling and administrative expenses were down 10% our R&amp;D was down 18%.
The reduction in marketing selling and administrative expenses was due to our ongoing cost containment efforts and the reduction in the U.S.
sales in marketing activities for Cymbalta and Evista.
The decline in R&amp;D expenses was driven by milestones payments and an asset termination charge in Q1 2013 that did not recur this quarter as well as by lower clinical development costs.
Other income and expense was net income of $56 million in Q1 2014 compared with net income of $34 million in the first quarter of 2013.
This difference was driven both by lower net interest expense and by higher other miscellaneous income.
Our non-GAAP tax rate was 18.7% an increase of 3.2 percentage points compared to the same quarter last year.
There are number of pushes and polls driving this change.
Recall that our non-GAAP tax rate in Q1 last year was substantially reduced by the recognition of the full year 2012 R&amp;D tax credit.
In addition our tax rate in Q1 this year is higher as no legislative action was taken in the quarter on the R&amp;D tax credit up for extension.
Finally in Q1 this year we recorded a discreet tax benefit and approximately $30 million which lowered our non-GAAP tax rate by 3.3 percentage points.
At the bottom line net income declined 40% and earnings per share declined 39%.
While this is a significant decline it is consistent with our expectations and places us on track to achieve our full year guidance.
Slide 9 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS and this reconciliation reflects the charge of $31 million pretax equivalent to $0.02 of EPS that was incurred in Q1 2014 as a result of restructurings reduced the company’s costs.
Additional details about our reported earnings are available in today’s earnings press release.
Many of you have noted that nearly all our peers exclude amortization of intangibles from their non-GAAP results while we include this expense.
For your modeling purposes and as you will see in our 10-Q we recognized amortization expense of $132 million representing nearly 3% of revenue this quarter.
Moving to slide 10 you can see the total revenue decline of 16% in Q1 2014 shown in the yellow box in the middle of the page was driven by a negative volume impact of 8% and negative price impact of 6% and a negative foreign exchange impact of 2%.
By geography you will notice that U.S.
volume decreased 26% this was largely due to the loss of exclusivity for Cymbalta U.S.
volume did benefit this quarter from shipments of our authorized generic Evista.
Excluding Cymbalta and Evista volume on the rest of our U.S.
from our products was down 6% this quarter.
Excluding the effect of wholesaler buying patterns I mentioned earlier volume on these products increased 2% in Q1.
Revenue in Australia Canada and Europe or ACE was essentially flat while in Japan volume growth was particularly strong up 37% driven primarily by Zyprexa Forteo Cymbalta Strattera Tradjenta and Alimta.
An increase in the consumption tax that went into effect on April 1st contributed to higher customer purchases.
Our best estimate is that this added roughly $70 million or 15 percentage points of growth to our Q1 revenue in Japan.
You can also see that the weaker yen trimmed revenue growth by 17%.
At current foreign exchange rates this negative FX effect is expected to be much lower for the remainder of the year.
In emerging markets we saw strong performance growth of 15% partially offset by a 6% negative impact from foreign exchange.
Volume growth was robust to 13% driven by Cialis Humulin Humalog Vancocin Tradjenta and Cymbalta.
Volume growth in Brazil benefited from a Humulin tender while volume in China grew 15%.
Elanco Animal Health delivered revenue growth of 6% and excluding FX Elanco grew 7%.
This performance growth was driven by higher prices for both companion and food animal products as well as by volume growth for food animal products.
This was partially offset by a volume decline for companion animal products.
Now let me turn the call over to Derica.
Thanks Phil.
Slide 11 shows the effective changes in foreign exchange rates on our 2014 results.
Now at a high level FX had a modest negative effect on our underlying foreign currency dominated revenue and costs.
However this quarter the effect FX on our cost of goods sold also had a negative effect on our results.
In the first rows of numbers you will see the FX negatively affected worldwide revenue growth by two percentage points as Phil mentioned earlier.
In the second row you can see that FX caused cost of sales to increase by 7 percentage points.
Driven by the strengthening of the euro in Q1 this effect this year the effect of FX on international inventories sold led to a substantial additional cost being booked to cost of goods sold while last year it led to a modest reduction in cost of goods sold.
As a result excluding FX cost of goods sold actually decreased 1%.
So as you can see in the last two rows why our operating income and earnings per share declined substantially due to the patent expiration of Cymbalta in the U.S.
foreign exchange further reduced operating income and EPS growth by double-digit.
Slide 12 shows our pipeline as of April 21.
Changes since our last earnings call are highlighted with green arrows showing progression and red arrows showing attrition.
Now as John mentioned earlier we received approval of ramucirumab for the treatment of advanced gastric cancer as a single agent after prior chemotherapy.
In addition we began Phase II testing of a biologic for anemia and we began Phase I testing on a small molecule for cardiovascular disease.
And we terminated the development of four assets two in Phase II and two in Phase I.
As John also indicated with a number of encouraging data readouts in 2013 8 assets in Phase III 3 assets under regulatory review and 1 just recently approved and more Phase III data readouts regulatory submissions and product approvals possible this year we are confident in our ability to return to growth post 2014.
Next let me remind you of our key events for 2014 and review our updated 2014 financial guidance.
In the first three and half months of this year we’re pleased with the progress we’ve made on key events we highlighted on our 2014 guidance call.
While I would not go through each item on slide 13 we’re excited about the opportunities to continue to advance our pipeline and to share data that will not only help investors better judge our growth potential but also convey why we view this year as a new beginning in the next phase of Lilly’s rich history.
We expect to begin Phase III studies for two assets bemaciclib our CDK 4/6 inhibitor for cancer and our anti-sclerostin antibody for osteoporosis.
As John mentioned the first Phase III trial of bemaciclib was recently focused to ct.gov and will begin this summer.
With respect to Phase III data we expect to report top-line results this with detailed data presentation next year for four NMEs and one additional indication for ramucirumab.
In January we disclosed detailed data of the RAINBOW trial for ramucirumab as combination therapy in second line gastric cancer.
And we anticipate detailed data disclosures yet this year for dulaglutide; our new insulin glargine product necitumumab and ramucirumab and in non-small cell lung cancer and possibly in liver cancer.
We have also submitted the fixed dose combination of empagliflozin and linagliptin for the regulatory view in the U.S.
and could have multiple additional regulatory submissions this year across our diabetes and oncology portfolio.
Importantly we’ve seen positive regulatory action on Cyramza as monotherapy for second line gastric cancer.
And we expect to receive European approval for empagliflozin later this quarter following the CHMP’s positive recommendation for approval in late March.
Till this year we could have regulatory action on empagliflozin here in the U.S.
on dulaglutide and on our new insulin glargine product although launch timing will be gated by expiration of Lantus’ patent protection and in the case of the U.S.
by ongoing litigation.
In other key events for 2014 we are pleased with the Alimta patent rulings granted in our favor in both the U.S.
and Germany.
And we could receive the ruling this quarter from the recently concluded trials in the UK.
And we lost patent protection for Evista in the U.S.
in March and data package exclusivity for Cymbalta will expire in Europe in the second half of this year.
Although we do not expect generic duloxetine to enter the European market until 2015.
Clearly we have a lot going on in 2014 and we’re off to a great start.
Now turning to our 2014 financial guidance.
When we announced the acquisition of Lohmann Animal Health we lowered our 2014 EPS guidance range to reflect solutions from the deal due to business combination accounting and transaction cost.
That non-GAAP EPS range remains unchanged and our updates are to specific line items primarily to reflect the impact of the Lohmann acquisition as well as movements in FX and the Q1 discreet tax benefits.
On FX the main change is in the strengthening of euro although a number of other smaller currencies have weakened.
In aggregate these changes modestly benefit revenue but due to the euro more substantially add to the cost of goods sold.
Our revenue guidance is now a range of $19.4 billion to $20 billion this increase of $200 million reflects estimated revenue from the Lohmann acquisition as well as the benefit of FX.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue is now anticipated to be approximately 73% down 1 percentage point from our prior guidance.
Again this reflects the Lohmann acquisition including the anticipated inventory step up and the negative effect of the stronger euro.
We’ve raised our SG&amp;A guidance by $100 million to a range of $6.3 billion to $6.6 billion again to reflect the Lohmann acquisition.
Our R&amp;D guidance remains unchanged at $4.4 billion to $4.7 billion and other income is still expected to be in the range of $100 million to $200 million.
To reflect the discreet tax benefit booked in Q1 we’ve lowered our full year tax rate by 1 percentage point to approximately 19% which still assumes extension of the R&amp;D tax credit in 2014.
In terms of net income to reflect the dilution from the Lohmann acquisition we now expect net income to be at least $2.9 billion.
At the bottom-line EPS on a reported basis reflects the Q1 charge of $0.02.
Our EPS guidance is now $2.70 to $2.78 on a GAAP basis and remains $2.72 to $2.80 on a non-GAAP basis.
Finally we continue to expect operating cash flow to be at least $4 billion and capital expenditures to be approximately $1.3 billion.
Slide 15 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS for 2013 and the associated growth rates from these numbers to our 2014 guidance.
Now I will turn the call back over to John.
Thanks Derica.
Before we take your questions let me briefly sum up.
We describe this moment as a pivotal point for Lilly and it’s literally that.
Even as we feel the maximum impact of our patent expirations FDA approval of Cyramza along with the CHMP’s positive opinion on empagliflozin are significant milestones as we move beyond this period to a path of renewed growth.
Our recent announcements to acquire Lohmann Animal Health and Novartis Animal Health position us for continued growth in the attractive animal health business.
For the past five years we have been candid with you about our challenges and our plans for overcoming them and we’ve delivered what we said we would.
We said our first priority was to continue to advance our pipeline.
And over the course of 2014 we will continue to generate and disseminate data on a number of Phase 3 molecules.
We expect to make a number of regulatory submissions of potential new medicines and we expect to launch multiple products starting later this quarter with Cyramza.
We said we would offset some of our revenue loss by driving revenue growth across a broad range of products geographies and businesses.
Three of our so called growth engines performed very well in this quarter.
Japan grew 16% China grew 21% and Elanco Animal Health grew 6% despite the negative impact on companion animal health of a colder than normal winter.
We said we would increase productivity and reduce operating expenses significantly and operating expenses in the quarter were down 14% versus the first quarter of last year.
Overall our first quarter financial results put us on track to meet our 2014 guidance.
Our solid financial performance will enable us to continue to invest in our pipeline including our new product launches to pay the dividend at least at its current level to recapitalize our physical asset base to reinvest in our business through opportunistic business development and to return excess cash to shareholders through our share repurchase program.
We remain confident in our strategy and in our ability to execute it.
And now I’ll turn the call over to Phil for the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you.
Thank you John.
If I could ask John the operator who is helping us with the call today to provide the instructions to the callers for the Q&amp;A session and then we’ll get started with the first caller.
Certainly.
(Operator Instructions).
And the first go line of Chris Schott with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks very much for the questions and appreciate you guys putting the whole management team on the call here.
My first question was for John we’ve seen a trend of increased focus and specialization occurring across the pharma group here I guess more recently we’ve seen companies actually taking actions to look at our strategic alternatives for non-core or sub-scale businesses obviously you’ve been require some aspects of these decisions but more broadly you [celebrate] your thoughts on these trends and would Lilly look to further narrow its focus and potentially divest assets.
My second question was on the CDK4/6 program if you elaborate a little bit more on the Phase III program here I guess would you be looking at adjuvant in addition to the advanced breast cancer market? Second and can you just elaborate what’s the earliest duty of this product to market? I am just trying to understand how quickly you can enroll a study is there interims just realistically when we think about this program being at position that you could file? Thanks very much.
Chris thank you for the questions.
We’ll have John to take your first one obviously and then Sue if you want to comment on the second piece I can help if necessary.
John?  Chris thanks for your question I think that judging from events of the last week if they combine to make a trend I think you are as I think I said in the Wall Street Journal earlier this week you are seeing companies build on their strength add to existing areas of strength and get rid of assets that where they believe they might be a subscale.
Animal health realistically is one of a few opportunities we have to diversify in a meaningful way in a business that we believe still has very strong synergies back to our pharma business I mean when we look at research we share common footprint for research we share a good number of manufacturing capabilities and assets and a global infrastructure that I think enables Elanco to be successful and we’ll continue to enable Elanco to be successful.
I can’t comment specifically about whether we would look to shed other assets.
I think from -- we're pretty -- we don’t have that many sort of extra assets or businesses and OTC business for example or our vaccines business or what have you.
But I think it's pretty clear that we're going to continue to focus a lot on diabetes and oncology and animal health.
I think our bio-medicines portfolio gives us some options.
We are going to know by the end of the year will we be able to establish an autoimmune portfolio with 3 Phase III data readouts.
We have a big bet still when you look at Alzheimer's with sola in EXPEDITION III trial ongoing now and enrolling.
And then as we have said last call we've completed [enrollment] evacetrapib which I think could be a very significant product in the cardiovascular space.
So I think we're guided more by where can we build on a solid footprint and on in the area where we have greater opportunity with the assets we have.
And the idea of divesting assets would sort of only follow from that go forward kind of thinking if that makes sense.
Great thank you John.
And Sue on the CDK4/6 inhibitor.
Yes let me try and address the question on CDK4/6 inhibitor bemaciclib.
We presented the breast cancer cohort data AACRBT and we have announced that we will be starting Phase III studies this year.
In fact if you look at ct.gov we have on that the Phase III study with (inaudible) in metastatic breast cancer.
In addition to that we have a Phase II single-agent study.
We are excited by our single-agent activity that we saw in our breast cancer cohort.
So we are initiating a confirmatory Phase II study there.
With regards to other life cycle planning and timing of approvals of which I can't speculate on those at this point time I would just say that we are going to continue to progress this molecule as we do as a safety as we are excited by the single-agent activity and dosing and safety profile that we've seen so far.
We also will be presenting our long cohort at ASCO this year and look forward to sharing more data on that.
Thank you Sue.
John if we have the next caller please.
We and that’s Tim Anderson with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
If I could just maybe finish out with a question on the CDK and that lung data coming up.
Can you just directionally give us some idea of your level of excitement with that drug in the lung indication and assuming that the data shows some degree of positivity just that kind of the development plan forward? And then my other question is on your animal health business from Novartis can you give us an idea of what you think that dilution will be to 2015 earnings on an adjusted non-GAAP basis.
And you are talking remedying the manufacturing problems that division has had so operating margin that Novartis disclose I think was basically breakeven so it’s not profitable.
It seems to me that the minute you kind of transport this products into some other manufacturing facility you have an immediate margins bump up am I thinking about that correctly and what would be the timeframe for that? Great.
Tim thank you for your questions.
So we will Sue answer the CDK 4/6 Derica if you would ahead and take the question on the impact for 2015 non-GAAP earnings.
And then Jeff if you like to talk about the goals we have for getting profits backup overtime that would be great? Sue? Sure.
With the (inaudible) data we presented last year at ASCO the Phase 1 study and we have done a number of cohort expansion since then.
As I said we presented the breast cancer expansion data at AAC we will be presenting the lung cancer expansion data ASCO until we present that clearly I can't comment on that data against just to say that we are continuing to look at opportunities to progress this molecule and we will be updating you as we get new data.
Thank you Sue.
Derica? Sure.
Tim this is Derica.
I can’t comment or I am not able to comment as to what the dilutive effect would be in 2015 at this stage obviously it’s going to be predicated on when we actually close the transaction and right now we are still projected to close by no later than the end of Q1.
What we have said is that if we assume a January 1 2015 close we would expect that this deal would be accretive on a cash basis by 2016 and should begin to return to historical levels of margins that you have seen on Lilly’s animal health business no later than 2018 our three years post closing.
Yes yes.
So I will follow up on that.
First of all I want to emphasize that the manufacturing problems were as you know in Lincoln Nebraska they were human health related this is a big part of our diligence.
The transfers have already started to take place on the animal health side.
We are very confident as we look at the second half of 2013 in Novartis Animal Health the trajectory that they are on.
They came in to these problems in a top-tier growth 6% to 8% is in animal health business.
And we believe when we combine what we have seen in their history and their trajectory in the late part of last year and the transfers that are in place that we can get to exactly where Derica mentioned two to three years out we can get back to that mid 20s EBIT percentage and we have definitely spent a lot of time and the diligence looking at this transfer and transition in this business.
So this was a big part of our assessment of the value.
I am limited on more details than that at this stage.
Thank you.
John if we could have our next caller please.
And we will go to Mark Schoenebaum with ISI Group.
Please go ahead.
Hey Mark we can’t hear you?  I am sorry guys sorry about that can you hear me now?  Yes we can.
Okay.
So I would just like to come back to the CD 4K if possible couple of questions.
Congratulations on the data; looked really good.
I am just wondering in the Phase III program you’re using IB (inaudible) I am just wondering why the choice to combine the PET drug as opposed to letrozole which was obviously Pfizer’s choice.
And also wondering on the differentiated neutropenia profile that you’ve seen for your drug if you have any explanation so that Pfizer has made some comments in the public domain that your compound made buy into different targets than theirs et cetera.
I am just wondering if you might be willing to offer a mechanistic rational? And then finally on use of capital given the Animal Health acquisition recently earlier this week should we as investors and analysts view you at least over the next year or so as reasonably be balance sheet constraint such that we should not have expectations that you could do a deal of similar size on the human health side? Thank you.
Great.
Mark thanks for your questions.
We’ll go ahead and have Sue take the CDK 4/6 questions obviously and then Derica on the business development going forward.
Sue? Sure.
The Phase III study that we have currently on clinicaltrials.gov as you said is bemaciclib in combination (inaudible) in metastatic breast cancer and that includes both first and second line patients we also I said have the single agent Phase II.
We’re going to continue to look at other areas with regards to (inaudible) is one of the obvious combinations of that.
With regards to the mechanism of action we know that bemaciclib is selected to CDK 4 and 6.
We can’t comment on why we’re seeing this different levels in neutropenia other than we are seeing a different safety profile.
And we as I said we are able to do continuous dosing with this agent we have single agent activity with this agent and we have a different safety profile with lower levels of neutropenia other than to say that we have we selected CDK 4 and 6 I can’t comment on whether there is a specific mechanism of action here.
Derica? Mark this is Derica.
As we stated on our animal health investor call earlier this week the March animal health transaction does not change or materially affect our ongoing capital allocation strategy we still believe we have the capacity to sustain our dividend at least at this current level and we're still in a position going forward to consider future dividend increases this does not affect our outlook in terms of our ability to complete our share repurchase program we're still committed to the 5 billion.
And as it relates to business development we still have the capacity to pursue the types of deals that you’ve seen from Lilly historically.
We’ve never been adding the space of mega mergers but if you look at our history the largest deal we’ve done is ImClone now the second largest deal is to be the Novartis Animal Health and after that was ICOS for about 2.5 billion.
So within that space we absolutely have the capacity to pursue those types of opportunities.
Mark one thing I might add on the CDK 4/6 neutropenia it certainly could be that Pfizer condition the market to believe that this mechanism would be causing neutropenia full stop and so those were linked.
There was data we presented at AACR to show that those patients that received 30% or greater reduction in tumor size a significant proportion of those did not have neutropenia.
So I think we may need to rethink a little bit what is actually causing the anti-tumor response and what maybe causing neutropenia.
John if we have next callers please.
And that’s Steve Scala with Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Regarding the 2015 outlook assuming a January 1 2015 close of Novartis animal health does Lilly view consensus of 317 as reasonable at this early stage.
And if you are not willing to comment should we conclude you are not comfortable? The second question is on your novel basal insulin.
Based on the data that you now have in-house are you fully confident that you have a differentiated molecule versus Lantus? And then the third question on dulaglutide you achieved non-inferiority to Victoza in Award-6.
But as the numerical trend was worse on some end point how will you overcome that obstacle in the marketplace? Thank you.
Steve thank you for the questions.
Derica if you will take the first one of 2015 guidance relative to street’s expectations that they have currently and then Enrique for the two diabetes question.
Hi Steve I like the phrasing of your initial question.
But let me try to clarify I’m not able to comment on specific 2015 guidance at this time.
And it has nothing to do with our level of comfort or discomfort it just means that we're not in a position to provide guidance and we typically haven't at the stage of the game.
What we have said is that we do expect that in 2015 that we expect to return the growth and margin expansion and obviously that was prior to the impact or the contemplation of the acquisition of Novartis Animal Health.
Great.
Enrique? Steve we have I think very consistently said that when it comes to our innovative basal insulin we would only see us launching that if we truly can differentiate against Lantus.
Now all of our trials are basically against Lantus we have a number of measures that we are looking at we have talked about glycemic control we have talked about nocturnal hypoglycemia a better weight profile and also lower use of the meal time insulin dose with a product as some indications that we basically saw in Phase II.
Clearly we also saw some signals when it comes to side effects.
At this point in time I'm just going to ask for all of us to wait we believe that we should be in a position to issue a top line press release this quarter.
On dulaglutide I really cannot comment more than what we basically have said as part of the press release we are pleased with the results of Award-6 we will have to wait for the detailed disclosure of the data.
At this stage we believe we have a very competitive product and we are very bullish on it.
Thanks Enrique.
John if we could have the next caller please.
And we will go to John Boris with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the questions.
First question John you had mentioned about the improved customer focus; can we maybe hear from your business leaders about that customer focus especially since this changed pretty significantly over the last decade to the payers and the push back impairs on pricing but in particular oncology and diabetes how well prepared you are to secure formulary access for your assets if you are going forward? And then quick question on the CDK 4/6 have you applied for breakthrough designation on the compound if you haven’t what is the hold up for applying (inaudible).
Thanks? Great.
John thank you for the questions we will go ahead and hit the commercial folks for our pharma business.
So we’ll start with Dave Ricks and then will return to Enrique and then since Sue can comment on oncology part of your first question and then also CDK 4/6 we’ll finish with Sue.
Dave? Thanks for the question.
As John Lechleiter mentioned in his comments we have taken the opportunity over the last four years as we restructured our company to really improve our capabilities to go to market this includes significant investments in our payer capabilities already Enrique in particular commented on that as we prepare for the diabetes launches.
But we feel good about both U.S.
and non U.S.
investments we have made to represent not only the major payers but key accounts at all stages in the healthcare system.
We have also substantially restructured our sales force not just to be stronger and leaner but I think go to market in a pretty different way.
We’re not going to go into the details of that for competitive reasons here but I think we overall feel good about our ability to commercialize the future pipeline.
I would also comment that Lilly continues to investment in our direct to consumer and direct to patient capabilities globally which of course includes the DTC in the U.S.
but also other direct patients contact initiatives and patient support outside the U.S.
So overall I think we are in good shape competitively here.
Enrique do you want to add to that?  Sure.
When it comes to diabetes I think all of us know the payer environment is very complex it’s challenging both coming from the decision that payers are making as well as competition that we have.
From our perspective we believe and we continue to believe that choice continues to be extremely important.
Now we clearly see that sometimes this is not an option that we have and in those cases we do compete for preferential access in particular when it comes to portfolio which is what we are marketing now.
As we make the decisions we do look at both financial and strategic considerations in terms of how competitive we are going to be with the different accounts.
I would mention that in the case of Tradjenta the engagement with the payers is done through BI.
Sue? Yes.
And with regards to oncology clearly from a sales force perspective we have a very experienced sales force globally in oncology.
With payers again focus is very in ensuring that we are bringing value to those patients in continuing to bring medicines that offer value to patient pays and physicians.
We also really clear that we need to ensure that we continue to get value for continuous innovation which is the foundation of oncology development.
With regards to our CDK4/6 inhibitor we are focused here is to ensure that we get this medicine to patient as quickly as possible and we will continue to work with the FDA and other regulatory authorities to enable that.
Great.
Thank you John.
Next caller please.
And we’ll go to Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
This is really a question for Sue.
Just in the spirit of the industry specializing and getting more focused.
In the area of oncology Lilly is conspicuously absent in immuno-oncology is that an issue without immune-oncology agents can you still be competitive in this arena? And then secondly are you planning to develop studies combining your CDK inhibitor with immuno-oncology or rather ramu or the other TGF inhibitor could you combine that is that part of the game plan? But just really can you be competitive in oncology given sort of where the paradigm is changing? Thanks.
Thanks Jami.
Sue? Thank you Jami.
It’s a great question.
Clearly there is a lot of interest and excitement about immuno-oncology and I think it’s been very clear that we think new data some tumors particularly melanoma in others.
We don’t have a PD1 and PDL-1 inhibitor.
We do have a number of molecules in our pipeline though that do work on the immune system.
The TGF beta pathway is important in immune defects in a number of tumor types and we have both large molecule and small molecule inhibitors to TGF-beta.
We also have other molecules in our pipeline in earlier phase including our CXCL-4 antibodies F1 receptor antibody and our P38 small molecule inhibitor as well as research efforts focused on it.
So no we don’t believe that we're absent in immune-oncology at all clearly we are excited at this point in time by the fact that over the last 18 months also we would have four positive Phase III studies I’m sure an overall survival improvement in lung cancer in gastric cancer.
And so with very much focus on ensuring that we get those medicines to patients as soon as possible.
And yes we do believe that combination both of target agents chemotherapy and immunotherapy is going to be the future in oncology and we're very much focused on that.
Great.
Thank you Sue.
Jan you want to comment as well? Yes I can also add that we have seen I think the emergence of a new area where a lot needs to be done still and there are a number of additional targets at the preclinical space that is being explored but that will come to the clinic in due course.
So I think we are serious about this and we have also done some key recruitments recently and are strengthening this area where we can actually then apply our core drugs hunting skills immediately then to novel targets.
Thank you Jan.
John if we can have the next caller please.
And we’ll go to David Risinger with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks very much.
I was hoping that you could just explain in some detail how you calculate the -- sorry I had an incoming call my apologies.
If you could just explain your calculation of U.S.
net price so obviously Cymbalta had a significant negative impact on that calculation.
But I just wanted to better understand how you run the calculation whether it’s the step down in U.S.
net price in the first quarter or your full buck of business was solely driven by Cymbalta or whether the diabetes franchise is experiencing price declines? And how you go about calculating it maybe you assume I don't know the authorize generic price for Cymbalta or something and that drives that calculation down dramatically? And then separately with respect to ASCO just wondering if you are what's your planning on in terms of investor events or specific investor discussions at that event? Thank you very much.
Great thanks for the questions Dave.
While Derica respond to your first question and then Sue on your question regarding ASCO.
Derica? Hi Dave.
In regards to our U.S.
net price calculation it is really comprised of three elements one is obviously any going rebate that we provide relative to the prior period.
Secondly here in the near term it does include the impact of the authorized generic which would be at a lower net price.
And the third would be any adjustments we made to our growth to net accruals as we reconcile to any receipts that we're receiving from the government.
As it relates to the rebate the first point I started we did see in the quarter obviously the impact of the ESI contract in the U.S.
where we know in our diabetes business where we did see price deflation rather than price growth on a net basis.
So those are three elements that are driving the price effect that you are seeing in our Q1 results in the U.S.
Thanks Derica.
Sue? Yes.
With regards to ASCO we have a number of interesting presentations at ASCO.
We have follow up to the RAINBOW gastric cancer study being presented we've also got the necitumumab squire first line squamous study being presented as an ORO.
And the ramucirumab Cyramza second line lung cancer study being presented as an oral as well as CDK 4/6 lung cancer cohort.
So clearly we feel that we have got some interesting information and we are planning to have a conference call of some sort to be finalized with [you all there] so to stay tuned on that one.
Great.
Thanks Sue.
John next caller please.
And we will go to Jeff Holford with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking my call.
Just a bit further commentary from you on the insulin pricing environment in the U.S.
(inaudible) obviously you’ve got a bit of a onetime impact here.
Just give me your thoughts about just sort of going forward how you view insulin pricing environment particularly in the analog space.
Secondly do you think there is any other specific areas within animal health that you would look to add or build on this in the future? And then just lastly on your CDK and there’s been a lot of questions today but do you think it is possible there could be any kind of different color got into profile regarding neutropenia on this products used more chronically in combination with (inaudible) therapy? Thank you.
Jeff thank you for the questions.
While Enrique take your insulin pricing question for the U.S.
obviously Jeff Simmons for animal health question and back to Sue again for the topic of the data CDK 4/6 inhibitor.
Enrique? Yes.
First when it comes to our overall insulin business let me provide this a bit of broader context.
When we look our overall insulin franchise we had very good volume growth worldwide.
Our volume growth was basically 8% to 9% when we look at our insulin franchise and this volume growth was solid across all regions based on our ability to be competitive when it comes to our presence in different geographies.
When it come to the U.S.
I think it’s important that we do recognize there were two impacts here.
There was a net pricing impact of the contract ESI and other contracts as well as well as there was a very significant inventory effect when it comes to wholesalers.
That inventory effect was in the high single-digits in the U.S.
So that was an important impact for us when we look at our overall demand and all of you have access to the script data it is very good that we have seen not very significant impact when it comes to our share performance and our overall volume performance.
Going forward right this is something that we monitor very carefully when it comes to pricing but we have now over 50% of the market that has gone to preferential formula is when it comes to analogs.
Question is how quickly will the rest of the market go there I think it’s fair to say that we are fighting to make sure that patients continue to have choice but at the same time as I have shared we need to be competitive whenever a payers basically makes the decision that they are going to narrow the formulary.
At this stage it is difficult to make more comments when it comes to looking at the future of insulin pricing I would just say that we do monitor this very carefully and we have become increasingly more sophisticated to think about both financially and strategically what’s in our best interest.
Jeff?  Yes Jeff.
I think to answer your question the first thing I would say is Novartis deal we announced this week was our eighth acquisition since 2007.
So I think we’ve got a good track record here in terms of integration.
And our focus no question rest of this year and going forward is going to be on efficient and timely integration of both Lohmann which we hope to close here in this quarter as John mentioned and Novartis.
That will be our focus.
So I think as you look at acquisitions it will be back earlier in the pipeline heavier focus on innovation 60% of this growth we’ve out grown the industry 3x and 60% of that growth has been innovation.
So it will be acquisitions more at a product level earlier back in a pipeline.
Okay thanks.
Sue? With regards to bemaciclib clearly we see lower neutropenia in single agents with single agent bemaciclib.
We’ll have to see the Phase III data with combination for fulvestrant to see both the efficacy and safety there.
We do have a Phase I safety study that we will in combination with fulvestrant at ASCO so we have to see some more data there on the safety profile of bemaciclib with fulvestrant.
Great thanks Sue.
John next caller please? And that will be Marc Goodman with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Yes first on Alimta can you give us a little more detail on the usage trends both in the U.S.
and ex-U.S.? And then Enrique you were talking about diabetes and insulin maybe you could just give us your sense of what you’re seeing out there with the orals DPP-4s SGLT2s and also maybe comment on the GLP-1s as well just trends you’re seeing in the market and growth rates and how much SGLT2s is moving ahead of DPPP-4s and how much is using a combination therapy? Thanks.
Marc thanks for question.
We’ll Sue obviously take the first one for Alimta and then Enrique the second.
Sue? Sure.
So with the Alimta if we look at our Q1 performance Alimta sales grew 2% that was given by the U.S.
with negative growth offset by strong performance in ACE and Japan.
In the U.S.
the decrease was nearly driven by buying patterns with to a lesser extent some selling price impact as we’re seeing higher share in [340B] account.
OUS in Japan we saw again buying patterns which in the other way was more positive way with regards to stocking in prior to the tax consumption change and also in ACE we saw very strong volume growth driven really in the maintenance.
So what we are seeing is we're continuing to see a first line market share growth and continuation maintenance growth.
And our focus really with Alimta continues to drive back to ensure that when patient start on Alimta they continue on Alimta and we get more continuation maintenance.
Alimta continues to be the market leader in non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer in the first line setting globally.
We also Alimta is the market leader in the maintenance setting.
However we still see the opportunity to grow the maintenance market so that when patient start on Alimta they continue on to progression and go in continuation maintenance and that’s clearly our focus now and going forward.
Enrique?  Very good.
First the market dynamic for the orals I think we're seeing very good growth when it comes to new patient volumes.
We’ll take in combination both the DPP-4s of new patient starts the DPP-4 class plus the SGLT2 class.
This new patient growth that we're basically seeing is slightly above where we had expected it to be.
So we're very pleased with that.
I think the SGLT2 class is off to a very good start and it seems that is being adopted very well.
When it comes to GLP-1s I think it’s slightly different that we believe that the GLP-1 market could expand in a very significant way but we have not seen that at this stage.
We I'll be frank we are counting on dulaglutide to be an enormous catalyst for that growth.
I think I'd share while we have basically looked at the dula against liraglutide highest dose our intent of doing that has been to basically ensure that we get the right price and reimbursement for our product.
We are not seeking to just switch patients from dulaglutide.
The big opportunity that we have in this particular case is to ensure that we can expand the GLP-1 plus in a very significant way.
And once again we see dulaglutide as a pretty important catalyst to that.
You were also asking about the payer environment on both of those classes.
Without going into a lot of detail payers today view when it comes to GLP-1s more differentiation between the products then maybe when it comes to meal time insulin.
I think that's also the case for basal insulins.
So the formularies when it comes to GLP-1s and basal insulin don't tend to be as narrow as they are in the case of meal time insulins.
In the case of the orals formularies today are narrow that is clearly a risk going forward.
But it is not like the case of the meal time insulin where you may have just exclusively one product in the formulary.
In most of the formularies when it's comes to orals there tends to be more than one product maybe two products in that formulary maybe not all but maybe two.
Enrique thank you.
John next caller please? And that will be from the line of Vamil Divan with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks for the taking the questions.
So on Ram just thinking about that one and seeing the success you’ve had in gastric and lung in the second line obviously data for colorectal and hepatocellular on all that soon.
Just can you give us a sense of what other developments that we might see other opportunities from moving that product over now that you got the first approval here? And then just second one unrelated on the destocking seems like quite a bit of an impact here for you guys this quarter.
Any special dynamics that you can highlight and I think there is a talk about weather maybe playing a little bit of a role this quarter and is there anything else that we should be thinking about and anyway to quantify some of your bigger products like Alimta Cialis Humalog exactly how much of an impact that? Thanks.
Vamil thanks for the questions.
Sue do you want to take the ramucirumab question and then we will actually have Dave Ricks talk a little more in detail about the destocking that we saw in the first quarter based on stocking in Q4.
Sue? Yes.
Let me talk about Cyramza because clearly we are extremely excited this week to announce that we have the first FDA approval for Cyramza and in fact it’s now the first FDA approved medicine for advanced gastric cancer following chemotherapy.
And this is clearly a huge unmet need.
And although it’s a very common it’s a fifth most common cancer globally; it’s the third leading cause of death.
It’s a rare disease in the U.S.
We estimate about 22 000 patients will be diagnosed with cancer this year with gastric cancer this year and a proportion of those is going second line treatment.
So while I’m talking about ramucirumab I want to make sure that I mentioned that.
And also we are planning that we will have this product available over the next few weeks because we want to get it to patients.
We also know that we got a number of questions of price so I might as well believe it’s now all there.
And we have as I said and it is a rare disease in the U.S.
it is ramucirumab Cyramza had been given orphan drug status.
And we have priced CYRAMZA similar to other orphan drugs and (inaudible) biologics.
So the price of an infusion based on the 60 kilogram patient is -- based on 70 kilogram patient sorry is $6 120.
And given the median numbers of infusions that we use in REGARD trial which is the pivotal trial that led to disapproval this week its total price per patient will be $24 480.
So that’s in the single agent second line gastric cancer.
With regard to the combination gastric cancer trial the RAINBOW study we have submitted that to -- we plan to submit that as a supplemental NDA to the FDA very soon.
Clearly we also have completed the submission to Europe based on the REGARD study and are working to find the most efficient way of getting the RAINBOW study submitted to Europe and we plan to submit in Japan as well.
You mentioned as well we’ve got the two positive -- the other positive phase study Phase III study in lung cancer which we will be presenting at ASCO and the HCC and colorectal studies should be leading out yet this year.
So we are very excited.
Yes we do plan to do other studies of Cyramza as we plan our lifecycle plans.
We are not able to give you specific details there other than to say that given the positive data that we have seen in both gastric and lung we clearly are looking to ensure that we have full lifecycle plans for this molecule.
Thanks Sue Dave?  Yes in regard to inventories there is two big effects on Q1 the first obviously the U.S.
we have as Enrique mentioned a headwind in the high single-digits to even low double-digits across the marketed product portfolio.
I just want to remind investors that we had a very robust Q4 on exactly the same products and stated at that time that there was a tailwind.
Why this happens I think is a cluster of just how the calendar works in terms of their buying patterns covering the holiday period in early January coupled with price speculation.
Obviously if we look over a longer period of time this tend to smooth out in the U.S.
We also in Q1 had a very strong performance in Japan.
A portion of that is driven by Japanese stocking from Q2 into Q1 so you need to look through that as well.
Again in long-term this tend to smooth out and I think in market performance for these key brands in diabetes as well as biomedicines I think are on track and consistent across the two quarters.
Great thank you Dave.
And Bob well thanks for the questions.
John next caller please.
And we’ll go to Alex Arfaei with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for taking the questions.
First to follow-up on the immuno-oncology question just to clarify are you looking for external collaborations for ramu in lung cancer with PD1 or PDL-1? And could you remind us if the ramu ACC and the other trial that’s ongoing is that going to be an external readout this year? Thank you.
The colorectal cancer is the one I missed.
Thank you guys.
Sure.
Alex thanks for the question.
Sue? Sure.
Alex we are continuing to look at multiple combinations obviously Cyramza with its (inaudible) could be combined with a number of different agents.
So we’re looking at multiple combinations including immuno-oncology combinations with many of our pipeline molecule not just with Cyramza.
With regards to the ACC and colorectal we should have the ACC readouts in the first half of this year the mid this year and later this year we should have the colorectal to readout.
We are anticipating that we would do toplines on both of those and have external data disclosure on the HTC Phase III trial this year.
Thank you Sue.
John if we can go to the next caller please.
And that’s Colin Bristow with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Regarding your business development on the pharma side are you willing to highlight any mechanisms or therapeutic areas of particular interest to you right now? On evacetrapib it seems like there is less optimism on this class from a kind of mechanistic commercial standpoints in (inaudible) on the outcome trial what gives you continued comfort this is a viable mechanism? And could you just give some color on where you are seeing this fitting in an evolving landscape in CV risk reduction? And then finally with regards to ramucirumab can you just confirm the Japanese filing is still anticipate before year-end? Thanks.
Great Colin thanks for the questions.
Let’s have Dave [turn out] with evacetrapib question.
Sue if you want to reiterate our plans for ramucirumab in Japan? And then John do you want to comment maybe on or Derica on the business development areas that we're looking at in pharma?  Great thanks.
On evacetrapib certainly Lilly remains very optimistic about this mechanism and thus the basis for original investment in evacetrapib remains which is that this drug has a very substantial impact on both LDL and HDL as well as other important cardiovascular markers.
We believe that and that effect will demonstrate a significant reduction in major cardiovascular risk.
We have a large Phase III program which is fully enrolled we're waiting for events and we believe we are powered to demonstrate that reduction in major cardiovascular risk based on all those factors and actually on LDL alone.
So we're optimistic about evacetrapib I think some of the noise in the classes die down posted dalcetrapib readout reminding investors that dalcetrapib molecule was quite different from evacetrapib in both its biomarker effects but also structure had much more modest effect in only on HDL.
And of course you’ve a competitor at Merck in anacetrapib and they have had some interesting data come out of their own which I think has dampen enthusiasm for that program but we remained both committed and excited about evacetrapib is potentially very large products in our future.
Thanks Dave.
Sue on Japan for ramu.
Sure.
With regard Cyramza yes we are on track to submit in Japan this year.
John? With respect to business development we have lots of business development activities little bit like the duck floats on the water and the feet are paddling away.
We're looking at business development opportunities across all categories that we compete in.
You know a lot about Elanco and some of things we've done there obviously in areas of strength like oncology and diabetes we're looking at opportunities that might compliment or strengthen our current portfolio products or which could be used in combination with those products.
And in Bio-Medicines which covers a whole broad range of therapeutic areas I think a couple of good example recently tanezumab the collaboration with Pfizer on the anti-CGRP or anti-NGF antibody for pain and then our acquisition of Arteaus in January with the anti-CGRP antibody for migraine.
I think we bias towards areas where we have internal therapeutic expertise where we understand development pathways and where we have key customer relationships.
You can expect that we'll continue to remain vigilant and opportunistic when other opportunities come along.
Great.
John Next caller please.
We will go Damien Conover with Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks for squeezing me in here.
Just a question on the strategic level it looks like we are seeing more movement from Phase 1 right into Phase 3 I am thinking little bit about this CDK 4/6 but we are also seeing that with a lot of your competitors AstraZeneca making some announcements earlier today.
Just want to get your thoughts on the risk reward of this dynamic and then also any commentary you have on how much of this decision is internally based versus get it by regulatory authorities? Thanks.
Sure Damien.
Thanks for the question.
I think we will have Jan response.
Yes.
We have seen this for some time in the oncology area where some Phase 1 data then are used and then you go directly into Phase 3.
And clearly the single has to be strong if you want to do this and you should also have a clear cut understanding of what is the patient population that you are targeting and preferably have some biomarker in the way to guide that.
There is clearly a risk in doing this because in reality you would like to have more Phase 2 data to ensure them the highest probable Phase 3 success rate.
And in our strategy we are talking about robust Phase 2 data as a good guarantee from improving Phase 3 success rates where you actually know the dose the dosing regimen the patients who are selecting and the marker and the endpoints and so on.
In relation to the Alzheimer area we and others have limited Phase 2 data then before you go into Phase 3 which is unfortunate but in reality you need so many patients and so long studies you might as well do the Phase III trial right away.
What you can do there though however is again to select the patients better by only selecting patients for instance then for anti-amyloid therapy that really has amyloid in their brain as detected for instance done by Amyvid scanning.
So we actually again try to target those population in Phase III.
Great thank you.
I understand the queue is filling up again a bit so we will continue since we have some time before the bottom of the hour.
John if we could go to the next call please?  And that will be Seamus Fernandez with Leerink Swann.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for the questions and for the extra time.
Just in terms of the met MetMAb and some of the decisions that Lilly makes from competitor data can you just tell us a little bit of what keeps you involved in the c-Met mechanism whether it’d be you have two inhibitors in Phase II study.
So what do you need to see in Phase II to warrant a move forward into Phase III given the sort of subset analyses that were a bit questionable from a competitor moving forward and then the ultimate failure of that Phase III what is it that kind of has you take a harder look at that? And then can you give us a little bit more color on the oncology side from a scientific perspective where how we should be thinking about the CSF-1R antibody and your enthusiasm around that approach in oncology? And then lastly Derica I know you have been asked this question a number of times but can you just give us again you said that $2.9 billion of adjusted net income but $4 billion of operating cash flow what proportion of that is historical amortization and depreciation is it sort of a 100% of that or is it about $700 million just to help us think about the comparable valuations given that most of your competitors actually exclude that from their P&amp;L? Thanks.
Great thanks Seamus.
We’ll have Sue take your first question with regard to the MetMAb.
We may actually to get back to you on the CSS-1R question and then Derica had to step out for a moment so I’ll go ahead and take your question on the amortization and depreciation.
Sue? Yes thanks Seamus.
With regards to our MET program we remain still excited with our MET program.
Our MET antibody is different to the genetic antibody it’s a bivalent antibody and it’s locked both ligand-dependent and ligand-independent cMET signaling which we believe could be important.
We have two Phase II trials ongoing in lung cancer with this antibody.
And we’re specifically targeting EGFR mutant population since there is -- the science shows that there is evidence for the relevance of EGFR and MET cross talk.
So we believe that with the antibody that we got that’s bivalent as I say targeting both the ligand and independent ligand MET expression plus our focus on EGFR mutant population that we’ve got an interesting molecule antibody development path and clearly we’ve got a Phase II program that we want to see the outcome of that Phase II program to decide whether we’d move forward with the Phase III.
So we remain optimistic.
Great.
Thank you Sue.
Derica is now back with us to now supporting the question in last minute let me go ahead and I’ll take the answer and you can add if you need to Derica.
So Seamus on your question of the amount of depreciation amortization on an annual basis that’s about $1.3 billion with a good chunk of that being amortization of intangibles.
As I mentioned for this quarter that was about a $132 million that we had of amortization of intangibles but as you pointed out many of our competitors now exclude from their non-GAAP or core earnings.
We do not knew that and don’t have any short term plans to change we certainly have notice that trend over time for more and more of our peers to exclude this we continue to have discussion internally but we will go ahead make sure that you guys know where to get to our 10-Q and 10-K language to find these numbers so that you can make it appropriate adjustment for apples-to-apples comparison.
John next caller please? And we’ll go to Mark Schoenebaum with ISI Group.
Please go ahead.
Hey thanks a lot for taking my follow-up question.
I appreciate it I just wanted to get quick update on your PCSK9 antibody program to a little bit since I think we’ve got an update on that.
And the specific question is there has been some speculation out there I was wondering if you could clarify if you be willing to clarify or it or not but your antibody might be able to be dosed less frequently than all the other competitors out there something like once quarterly? Thanks very much.
Thanks for the question Mark.
Dave if you want to answer fell free to chime in Dave.
Yes.
Mark as I reminder we’re in the middle of Phase II study we expect that data in the second half.
The purpose of that study is really to better elucidate the dosing schedule for the medicine.
But I think it’s safe to say we believe that PCSK9s can make a significant difference in cardiovascular risk and that Lilly PCSK9 may have the benefit of an extended dosing schedule; how long what we would actually decide to do if we proceed it with the medicine is to be determined.
Great thanks Dave.
John next caller please.
And that will be Tim Anderson with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
One of the bare arguments on Lilly relates Alimta and what the future of that product is given changing landscape with the PD1s.
So I know companies maintain 5 and 10 year long range plans directionally what can you say about how you view Alimta’s trajectory given what seems to be a change here? Is this something that you think is going to continue to grow or is there going to be some share losses as you PD-1s start to take some lung business? Tim thank you for the question.
Sue that’s right up your alley.
Yes Tim that's a great question and clearly the patent decision that we've got this year makes us feel much more comfortable with regard to the future of Alimta.
We're going to have to wait and see what happens with regards to the PD-1s and immuno-oncology.
We need to see the data mature we need to see which patients would be most eligible for those agents.
Our focus as I said previously is really to continue to drive the first line and the maintenance so the continuation maintenance indications for Alimta.
And even though we are market leader we've only got less than 40% share market in the first line setting and only approximately 20% of patients go on to receive maintenance of the first line setting.
So we do continue to see that there are opportunities there are a lot of different agents being investigated in lung cancer which is great because they needed huge.
We made a lot of improvement over the years but there is an awful lot of improvement that needs to happen.
So I think clearly we’re watching and we’re involved in bringing new medicines to patients.
We see that the lung cancer market is continuing to be an area of interest as we're bringing new medicines and because of the size and because of the unmet need.
So I still see opportunity clearly for Alimta to grow.
I’m glad that we won the patent and we are continuing to drive what we believe the opportunity is with three Phase 3 trials that show an overall survival advantage with Alimta and showing that you start with Alimta and stay with Alimta in the front line setting data we can continue to help patients and we’ll continue to [develop] this brand.
Great thank you.
We might have time for one last quick question.
John do we have any callers on the line still? Actually no further questions in queue.
Okay fantastic.
Then I will turn it over to John Lechleiter to close out the call.
Okay just very briefly I want to thank everybody for joining us.
And we appreciate your interest in Eli Lilly and Company.
We appreciate your feedback on this format we have been for the past couple of calls extending the time to allow you to ask more questions and we intend to keep doing that and to also involve our leadership team which is represented here today and these calls going forward.
So if you have any feedback on this approach please get back to Phil.
We’ll see many of you at ASCO and at ADA.
We will be back here again in July with report from our second quarter.
Thanks again.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Q 2014 earnings call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Chairman President and CEO Dr.
John Lechleiter.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to discuss Eli Lilly and Company's second quarter 2014 earnings.
As the operators said I am John Lechleiter Lilly's Chairman President and CEO.
Similar to our last call this morning we are bringing more of our senior leaders into the room here to participate and to answer your questions and we hope that this enhances the quality of the information we provide you during these sessions.
Joining me on today's call are Derica Rice our Chief Financial Officer Dr.
Jan Lundberg our President of Lilly Research Laboratories Sue Mahony President of Lilly Oncology Enrique Conterno President of Lilly diabetes Dave Ricks President of Lilly Bio-Medicines Chito Zulueta President of Emerging Markets Jeff Simmons President of Elanco Animal Health and Ilissa Rassner Brad Robling and Phil Johnson of Lilly's Investor Relations team.
During this conference call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on slide three and those outlined in our latest forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information we provide about our products and our pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It's not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
Before we get into our Q2 results in detail I would like to offer this context.
Even as we feel the full brunt of our patent expiries we continue to execute our strategy.
Our performance is in line with our expectations and we are on track to meet the goals we have shared with you for the year.
And the steady advance of our pipeline only strengthens our confidence in our innovation-based strategy.
Cyramza launched to a good reception in the U.S.
Empagliflozin has been granted approval in the EU.
Our insulin glargine product has been recommended for approval in Europe.
And we presented positive data on a number of late stage molecules at the recent ASCO and ADA meetings.
We anticipate a number of additional regulatory actions this year as well as additional regulatory submissions and important Phase 3 data readouts.
And we continue to manage our expenses rigorously even as we invest to ensure successful launches and continue to advance our pipeline.
With that let's turn to the key events since last quarter's call.
Since our last call we launched Cyramza in the U.S.
as a single agent treatment for patients with advanced or metastatic gastric cancer or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma with disease progression on or after prior chemotherapy.
We are pleased with the uptake we are seeing with the reports we are receiving from the sales organization and with feedback from customers on their experience to-date.
We have also a number of positive developments on the regulatory front spanning diabetes and oncology.
The European Commission approved empagliflozin or Jardiance indicated in the treatment of Type II diabetes to improve glycemic control in adults.
As I mentioned on last quarter's call Lilly and Boehringer Ingelheim anticipate launch of the product in European countries to begin this quarter.
In the U.S.
Boehringer Ingelheim resubmitted the empagliflozin NDA to the FDA.
This was deemed a Class I resubmission which carries a two month review period.
Consequently we expect FDA action this quarter.
In Europe Boehringer Ingelheim submitted the fixed dose combination of empagliflozin and metformin.
Also in Europe the CHMP issued a positive opinion recommending approval of our new insulin glargine product for the treatment of Type I and Type II diabetes.
This product which is part of the Lilly-Boehringer Ingelheim Diabetes alliance is the first biosimilar insulin recommended for approval in the European Union.
Moving now to oncology.
In the U.S.
based on data from the RAINBOW study we submitted a supplemental BLA for Cyramza as combination therapy in patients with second line gastric cancer.
This will be a standard review and therefore we expect FDA action in the first half of 2015.
In Europe where our initial submission was based on the REGARD monotherapy study we have now incorporated the RAINBOW data in our submission dossier which is currently under review.
And finally we announced that the FDA granted fast track status for our BLA for necitumumab as first-line treatment of metastatic squamous non-small cell lung cancer.
We continue to expect FDA submission before the end of this year.
In clinical news we had a number of detailed data presentations at the annual meetings of the American Society of Clinical Oncology and the American Diabetes Association.
At the ASCO meeting we presented detailed data from the Phase 3 REVEL trial studying ramucirumab in second line non-small cell lung cancer.
In this study Cyramza demonstrated statistically significant improvements across multiple efficacy endpoints including overall survival progression free survival and overall response rate.
The improvement of overall survival and progression free survival on the Cyramza plus docetaxel arm was consistent across the majority of subgroups including nonsquamous and squamous histologies.
We remain on track to meet our commitment for regulatory submission in the second half of 2014.
We also presented detailed data from the Phase 3 SQUIRE trial studying necitumumab in first-line squamous non-small cell lung cancer.
In the Phase 3 SQUIRE trial patients with stage IV metastatic squamous non-small cell lung cancer showed a statistically significant improvement in overall survival progression free survival and disease control rate.
As I mentioned earlier we intend to submit this BLA by year-end.
Finally following our initial disclosure at AACR in April we presented additional data from the Phase 1 trial of our CDK 4/6 inhibitor Abemaciclib.
These data were from two different cohort expansions.
One as a single agent in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer and the other in combination with fulvestrant in patients with advanced breast cancer.
Based on these data as well as the data presented at AACR we will begin Phase 3 trials later this year in both advanced breast cancer and advanced lung cancer.
We are pleased with the single agent activity we have seen with Abemaciclib as well as with the product safety profile and believe we could have a best-in-class molecule.
At the ADA meeting we presented detailed data from three of the Phase 3 AWARD trials of dulaglutide.
There was significant investor interest in the AWARD-6 trial comparing once-weekly dulaglutide 1.5 mg to once-daily liraglutide 1.8 mg.
Results from this study show that dulaglutide 1.5 mg was noninferior to the highest approved dose of Victoza in the reduction of HbA1c from baseline.
This is the first head-to-head Phase 3 trial of a GLP-1 to show noninferiority to liraglutide 1.8 mg on this important clinical measure.
Detailed data was also presented for AWARD-2 and AWARD-4 head-to-head trials comparing dulaglutide to insulin glargine with and without mealtime insulin.
Both trials showed that once-weekly dulaglutide 1.5 mg provided significantly greater reductions in blood glucose for patients with Type II diabetes.
Additionally in both studies hypoglycemia rates were lower for dulaglutide 1.5 mg treated patients compared to insulin glargine.
We are very pleased with the results of these three Phase 3 studies for dulaglutide as well as with those of the Phase 3 studies presented at last year's ADA.
If approved dulaglutide will be the only GLP-1 receptor agonist that is both once-weekly and ready-to-use.
We believe it could provide patients and physicians an important new treatment option for Type II diabetes.
In the quarter we also issued two topline press releases for Phase 3 trials one for our basal insulin peglispro and the other for Cyramza in second line hepatocellular cancer.
We announced positive topline results for three completed Phase 3 clinical trials in patients with Type II diabetes for basal insulin peglispro which is being studied as a once-daily treatment for both Type I and Type II diabetes.
The primary efficacy endpoint of noninferior reduction in HbA1c compared to insulin glargine was met in all three trials.
Having met the primary endpoints superiority for HbA1c lowering was examined and in all three trials basal insulin peglispro showed a statistically superior reduction in HbA1c compared with insulin glargine.
In addition in all three clinical trials patients taking basal insulin peglispro experienced statistically significant lower rates of nocturnal hypoglycemia and had comparable to statistically significant less weight gain than those taking insulin glargine.
We remain on track to issue a topline press release this quarter on our Phase 3 trial in patients with Type I diabetes and to make regulatory filings by the first quarter of next year.
For Cyramza we announced that the Phase 3 REACH trial in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma or liver cancer did not meet its primary endpoint.
Overall survival favored the Cyramza arm but was not statistically significant.
Although the REACH study did not meet its primary endpoint we are encouraged by the efficacy seen in specific subpopulations.
We plan to discuss these results with regulatory authorities to inform future trials.
In business development news we announced last week an immunotherapy collaboration with U.K.
based Immunocore Limited to research and potentially develop novel T cell-based cancer therapies.
This collaboration will result in a third quarter charge of $45 million or $0.03 per share of EPS after-tax that we have incorporated into our revised guidance for 2014.
Also we close the acquisition of Lohmann Animal Health a privately held German company that is a global leader in poultry vaccines.
This acquisition establishes Elanco as a global poultry leader and solidifies Elanco's vaccine presence and manufacturing capabilities.
We also entered into an agreement contingent upon certain closing conditions to sell the feed additives portion of Lohmann's business to a management led group.
Finally along with Sanofi we announced an agreement to pursue regulatory approval of nonprescription Cialis.
Under the terms of the agreement Sanofi acquired the exclusive rights to market Cialis OTC following Sanofi's receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals.
In other news the English High Court determined that the vitamin dosage regimen patents for Alimta in the U.K.
France Italy and Spain would not be infringed by a generic competitor that has stated an intent to market certain alternative salt forms of pemetrexed in those countries upon expiry of the Alimta compound patents in late 2015.
We strongly disagree with this ruling and have appealed the ruling to the Court of Appeal.
In the U.S.
based on the U.S.
Supreme Court ruling in the Akamai versus Limelight Networks Teva and APP filed an unopposed motion asking the Court of Appeals to remand the Alimta case back to the District Court to consider the issue of infringement.
No date has been set for a hearing with the District Court.
Note that this does not affect the District Court's decision that our patent is valid.
We remain confident that this patent is both valid and enforceable against generic manufacturers.
A Brazilian labor court ruled against our local subsidiary in a case alleging some employees were exposed to hazardous materials in a manufacturing facility operated by the company between 1977 and 2003.
We believe the decision is entirely without merit and we filed an appeal.
Finally during the second quarter we executed share repurchases totaling $145 million under our $5 billion share repurchase program.
And now I will turn the call over to Phil for a discussion of our financial performance for the quarter.
Thanks John.
First I will review our GAAP results and then discuss a few non-GAAP measures to provide some additional insight into the underlying trends in our business.
Moving to slide seven you can see that our Q2 revenue was $4.9 billion which is 17% lower than Q2 2013.
This decrease in revenue reflects a decline of $1.1 billion in U.S.
Cymbalta sales following loss of exclusivity in December last year.
In addition U.S.
sales of Evista declined nearly $145 million following that product's loss of exclusivity in March of this year.
Excluding Cymbalta and Evista in the U.S.
the rest of our worldwide revenue grew 6% mainly from volume.
Recall that last quarter we stated that our Japan revenue benefited by about $70 million from higher customer purchases in advance of an increase in a local consumption tax.
As expected this quarter customer purchases in Japan were reduced by a similar amount.
This negative impact on our overall corporate revenue growth was largely offset by a benefit in the U.S.
related to an adjustment in the reserves for managed Medicaid rebates and discounts.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue decreased 4.4 percentage points also driven by the loss of U.S.
exclusivity for Cymbalta and Evista.
This quarter the effect of foreign exchange rates on international inventory sold resulted in the modest addition to cost of sales while in last year's quarter it resulted in a modest reduction to cost of sales.
Excluding this FX effect from both 2013 and 2014 gross margin as a percent of revenue declined 3.4 percentage points from 79.9% in Q2 2013 to 76.5% in Q2 this year.
As in prior calls we have included a supplementary slide providing our gross margin percent for the last 10 quarters with and without this FX effect.
Non-GAAP measures are shown on slide eight.
Total operating expense defined as the sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A decreased 11% or nearly $340 million versus Q2 of 2013.
Marketing selling and administrative expenses were down 11% while R&amp;D was down 10%.
The reduction in marketing selling and administrative expenses was due to the reduction in U.S.
sales and marketing activities for Cymbalta and Evista as well as our ongoing cost containment efforts.
The decline in R&amp;D expenses was driven primarily by a reduction in late stage development costs.
Other income and expense was net income of $54 million in Q2 2014 compared to a income of $12 million in the second quarter of 2013 with this modest change driven by a variety of miscellaneous items.
Our non-GAAP tax rate was 22% an increase of 1.5 percentage points compared to Q2 last year.
The main reason for this increase in the tax rate is the lapse of R&amp;D tax credit at the end of last year.
At the bottom line net income declined 42% and earnings per share declined 41%.
As in Q1 this decline is significant but very much in line with our expectations and places us on track to achieve our full year guidance.
In slide nine we provide the same reconciliation of non-GAAP adjusted information for our year-to-date results.
Moving to slide 10 you will find a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS.
Additional details about our reported earnings are available in today's earnings press release.
As I mentioned last quarter nearly all our peers exclude amortization of intangibles from their non-GAAP results while we include this expense.
For your modeling purposes please note that we recognized amortization expense of $134 million representing 2.7% of revenue this quarter.
Now let's look at how price rate and volume affected our revenue growth.
Given the significant decline in U.S.
Cymbalta and Evista sales I will provide you with some color on how that affected revenue growth this quarter.
On slide 11 you can see the total revenue decline of 17% in Q2 2014 which is shown in the yellow box on the middle of the page and that this decline was entirely driven by volume.
Price added about 1% to revenue growth while the impact of FX was nil.
Excluding U.S.
Cymbalta and Evista the rest of our worldwide revenue grew 6% with just over half of that growth coming from volume and the rest from price.
Touching on some of the geographic highlights.
For the quarter U.S.
Pharma revenue declined 33% driven by a volume decline of 36%.
Excluding Cymbalta and Evista the rest of our U.S.
Pharma revenue increased 13% comprised of 5% from volume and 8% from price.
The benefit I mentioned earlier from the adjustment for managed Medicaid utilization had a positive effect a two percentage points of this growth in the form of price.
In Japan as I mentioned earlier our Q1 revenue benefited by roughly $70 million as customers increased purchases in advance of an increase in the consumption tax that went into effect on April 1.
As expected customer purchase in Q2 were reduced by a similar amount leading to a decline in our Q2 Japan Pharma revenue.
Specifically Japan Pharma revenue declined 15% this quarter driven by a volume decline of 10% adjusting for the timing of customer purchases our Q2 Pharma Japan volume would have increased 5%.
You will also see that the weaker Yen is still reducing our growth rate but at a much lower rate than in prior quarters.
In emerging markets we saw good performance growth of 8% partially offset by a 4% negative impact from foreign exchange.
Volume growth of 7% was driven by Humulin Forteo Humalog Vancocin and Tradjenta.
Sales in our largest emerging markets country China grew 15%.
Finally Elanco Animal Health posted revenue growth of 11%.
Strong growth in our U.S.
food animal business and in both food and companion animal products oUS was partially offset by lower U.S.
companion animal sales.
Also at the end of April we closed the acquisition of Lohmann Animal Health.
This added nearly $25 million in revenue primarily oUS contributing four percentage points to worldwide animal health growth.
Now let me turn the call over to Derica.
Thanks Phil.
On slide 12 you will see the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on the growth rates for select items of our income statement.
FX had almost no impact on our revenue or operating expenses this quarter.
As Phil mentioned FX did cause a modest increase in the growth of cost of sales with the corresponding negative effect on operating income and EPS.
As a result FX caused our operating income and EPS to decline an additional two to three percentage points.
Slide 13 shows our pipeline as of July 17.
Changes since our last earnings call are highlighted with green arrows showing progression and red arrows showing attrition.
As John discussed earlier Lilly and Boehringer Ingelheim received European approval for empagliflozin.
In addition we began Phase 2 testing of a biologic for diabetes and we began Phase 1 testing of two Biologics one for anemia in patients with chronic kidney disease and the other for ulcerative colitis and we terminated development of five assets three in Phase 2 and two in Phase 1.
Next let me remind you of our key events for 2014 and review our updated 2014 financial guidance.
In the first 6.5 months of the year we are pleased with the progress we have made on key events we laid out for you at the beginning of the year.
As you can see from the green checkmarks on slide 14 we had a productive first half of the year advancing our pipeline and sharing Phase 3 data.
While I will not go through each item on the slide I will give you a reminder of the potential key events for the remainder of this year and provide updates along the way.
As John mentioned later this year we will begin Phase 3 trial for abemaciclib our CDK 4/6 inhibitor in both advanced breast cancer and advanced lung cancer.
We no longer expect to move blosozumab our antisclerostin antibody for osteoporosis into Phase 3 in 2014.
The formulation we plan to take into Phase 3 produced injection site reactions at a higher rate than desired.
We will conduct additional work with the formulation used in Phase 2 before moving forward.
With respect to Phase 3 data we expect to report topline results this year with detailed data presentations next year.
For our basal insulin peglispro studies in patients with Type I diabetes ramucirumab for metastatic colorectal cancer and three immunology assets ixekizumab tabalumab and baricitinib.
In addition to the submissions we have already completed this year we continue to expect regulatory submissions this year for the fixed dose combination of empagliflozin and metformin for Type II diabetes in the U.S.
necitumumab for first line squamous non-small cell lung cancer and ramucirumab for second line non-small cell lung cancer as well as for gastric cancer in Japan.
As we previously disclosed we expect to submit our basal insulin peglispro for Type I and Type II diabetes by the end of the first quarter of 2015 if not earlier.
Also this year we could have regulatory action on empagliflozin in the U.S.
dulaglutide in the U.S.
and Europe and our new insulin glargine product in the U.S.
as well as final EC approval following the recent positive CHMP opinion and ramucirumab in advanced gastric cancer in Europe.
Now keep in mind that in addition to regulatory approval timing the launch timing for our new insulin glargine product will be impacted by a number of factors including patent expirations and ongoing litigation.
In other key events for the remainder of 2014 data package exclusivity for Cymbalta will expire in Europe in the second half of this year although we do not expect generic duloxetine to enter the European market until 2015.
Now clearly we have a lot going on in 2014 and we are looking forward to maintaining the momentum from the first half of this year into the second half.
Now let's turn to our 2014 financial guidance.
Our performance through June places us on track to achieve our full year financial guidance.
Since our last earnings call there have been some minor pushes and pulls but major changes to our full year outlook.
As a result our guidance for nearly all line items as shown on slide 15 remains unchanged.
We have revised our GAAP EPS guidance to reflect a charge of $45 million pretax or $0.03 per share after-tax related to the immune oncology licensing deal with Immunocore announced last week and we slightly revised our outlook for capital expenditures which has been reduced to $1.2 billion.
On slide 16 we have provided a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS for 2013 and the associated growth rates from these numbers to our 2014 guidance.
Now I will turn the call back over to John.
Thanks Derica.
Before the Q&amp;A session let me briefly sum up.
While our revenues and earnings continue their decline as we expected at the same time the launch of Cyramza and a number of approvals and impending launches give us great confidence that we are poised for growth in the years ahead.
Our performance is consistent with our expectations and we are on track to meet our 2014 financial goals.
We recorded growth in the sales of a number of products and key markets as well as in our Elanco Animal Health business.
The 11% decline in our operating expenses shows our ongoing determination to manage expenses rigorously so we can get the most from our well-stocked late stage pipeline.
The steady advance of the pipeline strengthens our confidence in our innovation-based strategy and our commitment to accelerate discoveries to the people who need them.
And now I will turn the call over to Phil for our Q&amp;A session.
Great.
Thank you John.
Toni we are ready for the first caller please.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Tim Anderson with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Two questions.
The first is we are seeing price competition in diabetes in various ways starting last year and then recently Glaxo launched their GLP-1 at a pretty big list price discount to existing therapies which you rarely see drug companies do.
This could have an obvious impact on dulaglutide's pricing at launch and I am sure you will say it's too early to discuss pricing but I am hoping you can still address in general terms because it is a worrisome trend not just for dula and Lilly but for other products and other categories for a variety of companies.
Then the second question is on Lilly's plans in terms of M&amp;A activity and also tax inversion.
You guys in the past have been pretty steadfast about only really considering bolt-on acquisitions.
Is this still the current stance because if so that size probably would not be big enough to qualify you for inversion.
So how is Lilly thinking about M&amp;A and the potential for inversion? Tim thank you for the questions.
We will have Enrique Conterno President Lilly Diabetes take the first question on the pricing in the GLP-1 space and then Derica Rice CFO take your question on M&amp;A.
Enrique? Very good.
Well as we all know pricing in the U.S.
has become extremely competitive when it comes to the diabetes space which is driven both by payors and competition.
I think in this particular case pricing also in a certain way reflects the profile of the very specific products.
We are extremely confident in the profile that we bring with dulaglutide and the number of trials that we have conducted.
So we do think we have a very strong value proposition.
And of course as we think about diabetes our stance continues to be the same.
We are a proponent of choice.
We believe choice is important for patients.
And we are seeking basically a dual axis in the diabetes space whenever this is possible.
Thanks Enrique.
Derica? Tim as it relates to M&amp;A activity our stance and strategy has not changed in this space.
We continue to be very interested in looking for those opportunities that can augment our current organic footprint both commercially as well as scientifically.
And that really lies in the space that you have seen us play in historically looking for in licensing deal and sometimes it's easier to do small M&amp;A transactions to get access to those technologies.
We continue also to be not interested in doing the large-scale M&amp;A.
We just have not seen that the long-term benefits from those types of transactions.
As it relates to inversion if that ever did come about it would be a secondary benefit not the primary driver of us taking any type of M&amp;A action.
Great.
Thanks Derica.
Toni next caller please.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Schoenebaum with ISI Group.
Please go ahead.
Hello? Yes.
We can hear you.
Thanks.
Can you hear me? Sorry about that.
I am sorry.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just if I could ask the pipeline question.
So all across the pipeline you have had some nice success this year but perhaps nothing truly transformative.
But when I look ahead I see two things that potentially are really transformative solanezumab and the CETP inhibitor.
And I was just wondering I think in the past you have characterized not the recent past necessarily but you characterized solanezumab as a high risk pipeline program.
I would love to know if you still perceive it as such now that the new Phase 3 programs are ongoing? And I guess so we can't do a deep dive in earnings call the same big picture question on CETP do you view that as a high risk moderate risk or low risk asset? And maybe if you could just remind us on the timeline? Thanks.
Great.
Mark thanks for the questions.
We will have Dave Ricks President Lilly Bio-Meds answer your questions.
Jan if you would like to chime in anything after Dave please feel free to.
Dave.
Thanks Mark for the question.
We remain excited about both of these programs the CETP inhibitor evacetrapib and solanezumab.
Importantly we are confident on the timelines we have previously communicated as to those data readouts which are clearly not in this year but that coming up over the next couple years.
As it relates to CETP inhibitors and ours specifically we are confident for several reasons.
One the LDL in addition of this asset we think is enough by itself to achieve the outcomes we have designed in the study to demonstrate.
On top of that of course there are other effects.
HDL lowering or increasing being the most pronounced as well as other cardiovascular potential impacts.
So testing the CETP hypothesis with a complete inhibitor of CETP like evacetrapib we think is something that's new and we are doing an ACCELERATE trial.
So we remain excited about that asset and should it play out that it has an impact on cardiovascular risk reduction we think there is ample market opportunity for such a drug.
For solanezumab I think as we have communicated since the EXPEDITION-1 and EXPEDITION -2 studies we believe in the mild signal we saw in those studies.
We have designed a study now which we think will be the definitive test of solanezumab in mild patients with Alzheimer's and we have improved we believe the probability of success in that versus EXPEDITION-1 and EXPEDITION-2 by importantly screening out patients who did not have amyloid plaque and by powering the study appropriately for this population.
So bottom line we are bullish on both of these.
Of course there is technical risk because both programs did not complete a normal Phase 2 proof of concept in the sense that you are demonstrating the outcome before starting a Phase 3.
So I will stop there and ask Jan if he has any additional -- Yes I think we can also gain some additional confidence from data from competition.
The recent report by crenezumab at the Alzheimer's meeting in Copenhagen I think supports the data that we have with solanezumab because it was reported there that this antibody which has some similarities to sola in its mechanism of action also reduced the cognition decline in the mild population of Alzheimer's which I think is the second nonpharmacological agent that actually shows that if you interfere with the amyloid pathway you can reduce cognition decline in Alzheimer patients.
Great.
Thank you Jan.
Toni Next caller please.
Thank you.
Our question comes from the line of Jamie Rubin with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Just a more mundane question.
Derica your gross margin guidance for the full year at 73% which assumes a significant deterioration in the second half of the year are you just being conservative with your numbers? Or is there something that we are not aware that we should take into consideration for that? And can you confirm that that would assume a worsening in the second half? And Dave Ricks for you just on PCSK9.
I know that is a Phase 2 asset and it would seem that the PCSK9 would directly compete with the CETP inhibitor.
What are your plans for this drug? And I think you are probably fourth in line in bringing a PCSK9 to the marketplace.
So if you can elaborate a little bit on where you see that project going? Thanks.
Thanks for the questions.
Jamie.
Derica you want to kick this off? Sure.
Hi Jamie.
Good morning.
As it relates to our gross margin guidance let me just walk you through a series of things.
One typically Q2 is one of our higher gross quarters primarily because one we do not have the slowdown that usually takes place in our production facilities outside the U.S.
primarily in Europe due to the summer holiday.
And also in the fourth quarter we typically experience the usual maintenance shutdowns.
What we expect and what you saw in the first half of the year is that we had very high production volumes running through our manufacturing facilities and we anticipate that those production volumes will be lower in the second half for the reasons I cited earlier.
So the gross margin performance that you are seeing thus far for us is pretty in line with the expectations that we have for the year.
The second thing that I would also highlighted is that also what you will see in the last six months of year is a full absorption and dilutive effect of the Lohmann Animal Health acquisition which we talked about the $0.05 hit when we announced the deal for the year and we also talked about the fact that it would be dilutive to our gross margin as well.
Great.
Thanks Derica Dave? Great.
Thanks Jamie for the question on PCSK9.
I think you are correct that we are behind in this class but we think the class has a place in the management of cardiovascular risk.
Obviously there's assets in front of us that are reading out positive data.
So the probabilities here look good for the class.
I think for us the really question is one of differentiation maybe not so different to the question on the GLPs.
We are conducting right now a Phase 2 experiment to really elucidate a differentiated profile.
And I think that data is going to be really key for our decision making about what to do next.
Whether that would be to proceed full speed ahead perhaps share risk with another partner or perhaps to have someone else take the asset forward and Lilly move on to other opportunities.
So we need to see that proof of concept and based on that information we will make some decisions in the quarters ahead.
Great.
Thanks Dave.
Toni next caller please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Boris with SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the questions.
First one for Derica.
Just one item in your guidance that seemed to change was the CapEx which seemed to move down on your guidance.
Can you maybe just characterize what's going on in the CapEx line and where that savings is going to be going? Second question for Jan.
It looks as though there were some pruning of the pipeline to your oncology assets.
Can you maybe help us understand what the next assets or beyond ramu and neci within your strategy that you will be focusing on within oncology.
If there is any in Phase 2 you can point out.
And then on the Immunocore deal for novel T-cell based therapies are there any particular mechanisms that you are targeting along with T-cell area or looking to optimize with that codiscovery and codevelopment strategy? Thanks.
John thanks for the questions.
Obviously Derica will take your first question on capital expenditures and maybe John and Sue you would like to comment on the oncology questions that John had.
Derica? Sure.
Hi John.
From a CapEx standpoint it's really fairly straightforward.
Our manufacturing team and our facilities group have done an excellent job of just driving productivity and being able to bring in projects still on time but at lower cost.
So that $100 million change in our outlook for CapEx s really spread across a multitude of capital projects where you are eeking out increased efficiencies.
Great.
Thanks Derica.
Jan.
John with respect to what you term pruning of the pipeline I think the fact that we had three potential cancer drugs that fell out of Phase 2 is somewhat a factor of just the abundance of cancer opportunities that we have in Phase 2.
It reflects the ongoing nature of the business decision making related to data that we have gathered and other priorities that we have set.
I think going forward you are going to see Lilly much more focused on the clinical progression of the molecules where we believe we have a competitive lead and that we believe offer the greatest opportunity for Lilly.
We have got a great position today of really having an abundance of riches and yet we have finite resource.
With an ever more competitive environment I think it's important that we put clear focus and resources behind those that we believe provide for us the greatest potential and the greatest opportunity for patients at the end of the day.
With respect to the T-cell therapies I am going to ask Sue to comment both on your second question about the oncology portfolio and then specifically on immuno-oncology.
But we believe immuno-oncology is an important area.
We have said this.
We believe we have assets already in our pipeline that really factory in to this disease to this mechanism a writ large and the Immunocore deal was we think a great opportunity for us to influence the immune cycle hopefully for the benefit of cancer treatment in a very specific way.
And again I will ask Sue to comment in greater detail.
Sure.
Yes thanks.
Clearly with regards to the oncology pipeline we are looking at the key cancer pathways including cell cycle inhibition the tumor microenvironment and immunotherapy.
You are aware of bemaciclib.
Obviously we are very excited about that molecule.
We have initiated our Phase 2 study single agent study.
We are on track to initiate the fulvestrant Phase 3 study in breast cancer in the next few weeks.
And the additional Phase 3 study both with a breast caner with aromatase inhibitor and in lung cancer will be starting and KRAS lung cancer we will be starting towards the end of this year.
So that is one molecule we are very excited about and we are moving forward rapidly with that.
In other molecules that we have in our pipeline that we are continuing to progress our c-Met antibody which is a bivalent antibody that we believe could have different properties than other agents out there.
And then our TGF-β small molecule inhibitor or galunisertib which is in Phase 2 development and this is actually a molecule that is getting a lot more interest because it targets the pathway that modulates and functions T Regulator Cell.
So that is one agent that we believe that could have or does have a new modulating activity and we are going to be seeing further combinations with that agent both with other targeted agents and with other immunotherapy agents.
We have two other agents that we have got in clinical development as well that impact the immune system includes the CXCR4 peptide antibody which is in Phase 2 development and that's involved in the trafficking of immune cells in tumors and rCSF-1 antibody that's in Phase 1 and that targets monocytes and macrophages involved in creating an immunospecific environment in the tumor.
So we have three assets in clinical development that impact the immune system.
We are also continuing to increase our discovery efforts and capabilities both internally and through recruitments externally if necessary and we have got a number of targets that we are interested in.
In addition to collaborations and partnerships and potential acquisitions that we are looking at and Immunocore is the recent one that we have announced and we are very excited about looking at novelties.
So base cancer therapies that deal specifically looks at three targets.
We have identified three targets.
We can't tell you what those targets are now but they are ones that we believe that have potential and clearly if we decide to take those into the clinic we will be looking at combinations with other oncology assets and other assets in our pipeline for those agents.
So we are very excited about the opportunities that we have got in oncology and as John said it's really a case of making sure we are prioritizing and putting our focus in the right areas to making sure we are progressing the molecules that have got the most potential for patients.
Great.
Thank you Sue.
Toni if we can have the next caller please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Schott with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Just had a few here.
So my first one was as we look at Lilly returning to growth and as cash flow starts to recover can you just share some of your views on your products and potential divestitures of non-core assets? We have seen a number of players in the space that would consider looking at the divesting some of those businesses? Just thoughts from Lilly in terms of if that's something that could be on the table? Second question on the CDK program in breast cancer.
I think Pfizer announced it's moving forward with a palbociclib filing based on Phase 2 data.
If that drug is approved early next year just can you comment what that means competitively Lilly as you think about your program and the timing of that program relative to Pfizer's launch? And then finally I am not going to sound so generically but your on sclerostin inhibitor just talk about next steps from here and your confidence that this is something you can dress? Just trying to understand what we should be watching for on the updates there.
Thanks very much.
Chris thank you for the questions.
We will have Derica take the questions on strategies around late stage assets post patent assets.
Sue Mahony on what the palbociclib potential approval could mean from a competitive perspective and then Dave want to take lead maybe on talking about the sclerostin question that would be great.
Derica? Hi Chris.
As it relates to I guess this is a little bit of still a further extension of our capital allocation strategy.
We have got a number of deals over the last few years to take advantage and make sure we are maximizing the potential what's sitting inside not only Lilly's labs but also Lilly's even currently marketed products.
So even if you look at Evista we did some deals there outside of the U.S.
to make sure that we were able to put proper resourcing behind that at a time when we were diverting some of other resources more towards the pipeline to advance the late stage assets that we saw with future potential.
I think going forward we will continue as you heard even from Dave and from John as well that we have a pretty robust and pretty full clinical stage pipeline today.
And we believe there are potentially more opportunities than we will have the capacity to progress on our own.
So it is possible that going forward you will see us as we cycle through those deciding which assets we will go alone and as Dave said which assets we may partner and which assets we may find other ways to monetize the value from.
The good news is that we are at the beginning of this cycle as we are getting great discovery output from our research labs and that's what affording us these opportunities that lie ahead of us.
And we have no intentions of doing anything that will damage that flow of new molecules moving into the clinic and it gives us the optionality down the road.
Thanks Derica.
Sue? Yes with regard to the palbo potential approval that really doesn't have any significant impact on our plans for Abemaciclib.
Clearly our focus is on ensuring that we get our three Phase 3 studies up and running as quickly as possible this year which we are on track to do.
I am very confident that the team has got a good plan in place to ensure that we get rapid enrollment in these studies.
We are confident in our molecule.
We believe that we could have a best-in-class molecule here with single agent activity and continuous dosing.
So as I said our focus really is ensuring that we get these trials up and running as quickly as possible and I think we are on track to do that.
Great.
Thanks Sue.
Dave? Great.
Thanks Chris.
Maybe just quickly as well on asset mix and looking to change that I would say on the late lifecycle in market assets I think we are open to that as well but we need to have a transaction that produces value.
So I think when we see those things we move on them.
I think the Cialis announcement with Sanofi this quarter is an example of that where we are harvesting late lifecycle value from Lilly assets.
On sclerostin antibody pronounced blosozumab for those on the phone we had completed a proof of concept study in severe osteoporosis.
We are excited by that data.
We remain excited by the data.
In conducting a transition from a Phase 2 formulation to a final commercial image we did have some results that surprised us a bit in making that transition.
We needed a bit more work on the formulation so that we have really a competitive or even differentiated commercial product image.
We had scheduled or had communicated a potential for a start to the Phase 3 program toward the 2014 and today we are just saying that's not going to happen in 2014 because of this delay.
As we have more information we will come back to the investment community to share firmer timelines.
Great.
Thanks Dave.
Toni next caller please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Seamus Fernandez with Leerink.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for the questions.
So just a few quick questions.
First off maybe for Jan.
Can you give us your general thoughts on the data that was presented on Roche's crenezumab? I think we have seen some data that looked somewhat similar but can you just maybe compare and contrast what we saw with Lilly's solanezumab versus crenezumab and how these molecules are fundamentally different? Second question is for Enrique on the launch preparation for dulaglutide.
Can you just give us a sense of where we are as we lead into a potential action date from the FDA? Have we the facilities? Have they been inspected? How is inventory building? And how would you recommend that we assess the dulaglutide launch given recent product launches and perhaps access although I would think that Lilly might have a bit of a better opportunity given its ability to leverage the portfolio? And then just a quick update on the glargine challenge in the U.S.
and if you would consider and risk launch following the expiration of the 30 month stay? And my last question is if you can remind us post the Lohmann acquisition and perhaps Novartis Derica would you be able to tell us what the overall deal related noncash charges that get baked into the P&amp;L on an ongoing basis and your adjusted earnings? Can you remind us what that number is currently? And it what may move to? And then perhaps what prevents Lilly from moving to the industry standard cash EPS? Thanks a lot.
Okay.
Keep us on track here.
If we miss one of your questions don't hesitate to let us know but I think we will go ahead and have Jan talk about the data for Roche's crenezumab.
Obviously Enrique the two middle questions on launch for dulaglutide and the status of the glargine legal situation here in the U.S.
and then Derica the last one on the noncash charges.
So Jan you want to start please? Yes first I would like to make a comment and since it's not a head-to-head trial I think it's more compelling than different trials and done under different conditions but as I said before the data are generally supportive between solanezumab and crenezumab.
We should remember though that the crenezumab is a Phase 2 trial which is clearly much smaller than EXPEDITION-1 and EXPEDITION-2.
And I think for our EXPEDITION-3 is going to be the most important trial which is even 60% larger than the previous EXPEDITION trials and the focus I think here is clear.
It is the mild Alzheimer's patients that could have the best impact from solanezumab and we are selecting the amyloid positive ones which is also a key criterion.
Great.
Thank you Jan.
Enrique? First on dulaglutide.
We are by the way expecting that the trade name which is going to be TRULICITY.
We are very much on track.
The action date for both the U.S.
and Europe is this year.
So our launch preparations are very much ongoing.
There is not much more really that I can discuss at this stage whether it's pricing or inspections and so forth.
Just to say that at this stage things are going on truck from our perspective.
When it comes to our new insulin glargine product we are also expecting tentative approvals this year and clearly we do have in the U.S.
the 30 month stay.
I can't make many comments about the ongoing litigation but clearly we do not believe that we are infringing any of the asserted patents.
So we are hopeful that we can resolve this as soon as we ca.
Hopefully even before the 30 month stay.
But if that is not the case we have the conviction in terms of what our position is and we are not infringing any of those asserted patents.
So we will be planning to launch at this stage.
Enrique thank you.
Derica? Hi Seamus.
For amortization of intangibles that's embedded in our operating results as you heard from Phil earlier for the second quarter about $135 million is what's reflected in our Q2 results.
When we think about Lohmann if you look at it on a full-year basis a full twelve month basis somewhere between $15 million to $20 million.
As it relates to Novartis Animal Health.
I am not able to share that with you until we actually close the deal and we have the final purchase accounting.
So that number is still moving at the moment.
And in terms of any thoughts about moving towards where most of the peers said of the non-GAAP treatment of amortization Derica? Thanks Phil.
We have obviously gotten some input both from people such as yourself Seamus on the sell side as well as we have gotten some inquiries on it from some of our buy side investors as well.
It's something we are taking under consideration.
Actually we plan to come back and inform you as to what are our actions going forward will be.
Great.
Thanks Derica.
Toni if we can have another caller please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Scala with Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I have three questions.
First on dulaglutide.
There's no question that you have a best-in-class asset.
But what portion of the GLP market would be receptive to a modestly effective but less expensive product from GSK? And is that portion 10% or 30%? Secondly Lilly has given out some time ago now a very specific guidance on SG&amp;A and R&amp;D as a percent of sales without specifying a year in which that will be achieved.
Consensus I believe has Lilly achieving these targets in 2019.
Can you tell us whether Lilly's internal forecast has you achieving these targets before 2019? And if you aren't willing to say would you say whether Lilly plans to achieve these targets this decade? And then the final question is that it seems that 2015 is setting up to be a phenomenal year with sales and earnings up very strongly.
Yet consensus covers a wide range.
What early observations would you like to make about 2015? For instance please take the opportunity to rein in the high end of those estimates unless compared to your expectations the high end is just fine.
Thank you.
All right.
Steve thank you for the three questions.
Well I will have Enrique take the dulaglutide question and Derica you will have to comment on timing or some of the goals for the SG&amp;A and R&amp;D as a percent of revenue and then any initial thoughts on 2015.
Enrique? Steve thank you for your comments.
I am going to quote you on dulaglutide as a best-in-class asset.
VERY much appreciate it.
We certainly believe so.
Look on your specific question about -- there are different types of profiles in the GLP-1 class and some look less efficacious.
I will be honest I think the value proposition for those products is very complicated.
We do know that improved glycemic control leads to reduction in complications.
That is a very strong value proposition.
It does what we seek that.
So it is difficult for me to say what type of share would those products get but I do not believe it is going to be very much.
Okay.
Thank you.
Derica? Hi Steve.
As it relates to our margin guidance that we put out there Steve we actually have provided a timeline at least up till now.
What we said is that no later than 2019 or by 2019 we will achieve a total operating expense as a percent of sales somewhere in the 48% to 50% range.
Getting back to the historical levels of profitability that you have seen from Lilly pre-patent expiration.
We still expect to at least meet that timeline.
There clearly will be opportunities to update that outlook as we move forward.
As it relates to 2015 Steve it is still early.
I am not in a position to share details on our outlook for 2015.
But we have said though is that we do coming out of 2014 expect to return to growth and to begin our journey towards expanding our margins.
And so that is the kind of performance you should expect to see and obviously in the near future we will have an opportunity of giving you more specifics around 2015 as we think about our usual timeline for issuing guidance.
Yes and then typically Steve that guidance is given in that first full week of January.
So probably somewhere around January 7 you should expect to be seeing a day reserved for the 2015 guidance call.
Toni if we can have next caller please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Vamil Divan with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks so much for taking the questions so two that I have.
One on the CGRP antibody.
I think that's a pipeline asset people don't talk about too much yet.
Can you just talk a little more on your expectations there? We have obviously seen some setbacks previously in that space.
What do you think are the differentiating points for that product? And what would you say are some of the key decision points that you have coming up here? And then just looking at your slide 14 with the key events it doesn't look like any other major external data readouts the rest of this year.
Any chance any of the autoimmune studies that you have ongoing that we might see some of those at AACR later in the year? Or if not should we assume ULAR next year might be a big meeting for you guys with all three of these assets there? Vamil thank you for the questions.
We will have Jan lead off on the CGRP.
Dave feel free to chime in and then I will ask my colleague Ilissa if she wants to comment on some of the data readouts for the back half of the year Jan? Yes.
Calcitonin gene related peptide or CGRP has been implied as an important mediator in migraine since quite some time and it has been shown by small molecules that you can reduce then the acute migraine symptoms by giving up oral agents.
The problem with both agents were that yes they prove the hypothesis that CGRP is an important mediator but they were not safe for chronic use because they had liver toxicity.
That's why I think the antibody in a way comes in with an open door where the mechanism has been proven and antibodies as we have seen with ours are generally safer.
So they are more appropriate also then for potential to chronic use.
And as you know we described the positive data from a proof of concept study recently where the effect in chronic migraine was shown reducing the migraine headache days and also migraine attacks than in so-called episodic migraine.
So what we are doing now with this molecule is to do some more dose ranging and studying and preparations then for Phase 3.
And we also recently announced that we will start to study on osteoarthritis also for this agent.
Great Jan.
Thank you.
Dave any comments? No.
Okay Ilissa? Sure.
Thanks Vamil for the question.
So a while you are correct that we don't have any detailed data readouts listed for our immunology portfolio we are expecting internal data readout in the second half of this year starting with ixekizumab followed by tabalumab and towards the very end of the year the first trial we will readout for baricitinib.
Those trials should have detailed data readouts starting in 2015.
I will also remind you that we are expecting topline results as well for our basal insulin peglispro in diabetes for the Type I trials and that will be in the third quarter of this year.
And as has been our past practice Vamil I think you should expect that the various trials that Ilissa just mentioned would lead to topline press releases providing an update at a high level on whether or not the trials have met their endpoint.
So what kind of safety profile we have seen and some of our thoughts on next steps for those molecules.
One I might mention that's broader across the portfolio the REACH trial of ramucirumab in hepatocellular cancer I think it is quite possible and likely that we have detailed data presented at a medical meeting before the end of the year that should get some additional insights into the commentary we provided around subgroup data that we found to be quite interesting.
And then also for ramucirumab there is the colorectal data that would lead out towards the end of this year possibly early next year and could have a topline readout as well.
Great.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks for the questions.
Toni next caller please.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin Bristow with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the questions.
On GLP-1s we should see Phase 2 data for Novo' oral GLP-1 in Q2 2015.
I was just wondering if you would give us your thoughts on this approach and how you view it as a potential competitive threat to the GLP-1 market as well as the DPP4s and SGLT2s? On SGLT2 fixed combos one of your competitors has stated that they view the approval of these as a significant inflection point for the acceleration of cost growth.
I am just wondering how you are thinking about this opportunity and do you share this view? And then finally just on the basal insulin peglispro I think I heard you say that the U.S.
filing was going to be 1Q 2015 or earlier.
What are the factors that could lead to an earlier filing? And how soon could this be? Thanks a lot.
Great.
Colin thank you very much for the questions and those are all directed to Enrique Conterno.
Enrique? Thanks.
On oral GLP-1s we have said that this is an area that is attractive and is an area where we very much looking at as well.
I won't comment.
I think your question is probably more appropriate for one of our competitors.
When it comes to the fixed dose combination if you are referring to the fixed dose communication between a GLP-1 and insulin we clearly see the combination of a GLP-1 and insulin as important therapy.
We do believe with dulaglutide and our insulin portfolio we can provide very significant value when it comes to providers and payors.
We do believe that the restriction that is imposed by having a fixed dose combination in this particular case in a certain way takes away from the flexibility that endocrinologists want and need given how insulin is titrated.
They are giving some indications here but I should also comment about the SGLT2s and DPP4 fixed-dose combination.
We do believe this is an important product for us.
Of course we are developing this with Boehringer Ingelheim.
We have submitted this in the U.S.
and we believe we are significantly ahead of our competition.
Today about 25% of the SGLT2 use is on top of a DPP$0.
So that gives you a sense of the possibilities for overall class growth and branded growth and the impact that this fixed dose combination could have.
Finally you asked about whether we could file earlier than Q1 basal insulin peglispro? That is a possibility but at this stage I think what we said is we would file by Q1.
Clearly we are working on getting the readout for our Type I studies and we expect that we are going to be seeing this later this quarter and we expect the press release together with that.
Great.
Thank you Enrique.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Next caller please.
Thank you.
Your next question comes to from the line of Jeff Holford with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I have got two questions around insulin glargine products.
Just firstly can you just give us a bit more color on why you have added the three mil cartridge to your filing? And does this potentially relate to being able to come to the market with a product such as the OptiClik device which Ypsomed had previously there to try and get around some of the Solostar patents? And then secondly can you just update us a bit more on your thoughts around timing of European launch and what kind of presentation the product would have in terms of device or not? Thank you.
Great.
Jeff thank you for the questions.
We will stay with Enrique.
Sure.
On insulin glargine we have submitted two NDAs.
You are right.
One for prefilled pens and one for an insulin for cartridges.
Clearly those are two independent NDAs and we have been sued on each one of them.
So that's all I will say basically at this stage but we will be intending to basically oppose the patent expirations and resolving the ongoing litigation to be able to bring both of those to the market.
Your second question was related to Europe.
Clearly the patent expiration for Lantus is in 2015.
We are expecting tentative approval this year.
So we are very much in our preparation but that's as much as I can comment.
Of course we take very seriously the patents but are in place and we will launch after those patents have expired.
Thanks very much.
You are very welcome.
Toni next caller please.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Arfaei with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the questions.
A question on ramucirumab for second line metastatic colorectal cancer.
My understanding is that the Phase 3 trial those patients could have been treated with Avastin first line.
So how should we think about the process of this trial given the similar mechanism of action and given the clinical profile we have seen with ramu so far? Thank you.
Thank you very much Alex.
Sue Mahony please? Yes Alex you are right.
This is a second line trial after Avastin in first line.
Clearly we will wait and see what the data shows.
We will have that data towards the end of this year and we will be announcing topline and then we will be planning to present it at a scientific meeting next year.
So I think it's too early to speculate at this point.
We will have to wait and see what the data shows us.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Toni next caller please.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Marc Goodman with UBS.
Please go ahead.
My first question is how are you thinking about the biologic psoriasis market? There's several players there.
So are you thinking about your product being differentiated? Second there was a comment earlier on the call about an adjustment in the U.S.
for managed Medicaid.
How big was that adjustment? Can you just explain what happened there? And then third just on the insulin products.
Any major changes in the quarter? Humalog Humalin seemed to be bouncing around first quarter second quarter quite a bit relative to what I would have thought the scripts were doing.
So if you could just give us a sense of what's going on there? Thanks.
Absolutely happy to Marc.
Thanks for the questions.
Dave Ricks we will have you go and start with the biologic market with psoriasis.
Derica if you could comment please on the managed Medicaid situation.
Enrique for the U.S.
insulin sales trends we have been seeing.
Dave? Yes.
Thanks Marc.
As it relates to psoriasis treatment we have seen our rapid growth of TNF use over the last decade in treating moderate to severe psoriasis and then more recently of course alternate mechanisms with Stelara which has been met with great success in the market.
We believe IL-17s are another step forward in therapy for patients with moderate to severe psoriasis and you can see some of the Phase 2 and Phase 3 readouts from the three competitors which are all neck and neck in the very last stages of testing here.
The promise of the class is really to move the standard of what good is from a PASI 75 clearance to really something north of that PASI 90 or total clearance which can now be possible for these patients who suffer from this difficult condition and we see IL-17s delivering PASI 100 or complete clearance substantially above both anti-TNFs and Stelara.
So that's the value proposition for the class.
Within the class we of course have our own differentiation strategy which includes of course efficacy.
We will have to see the safety as it bears out and then dosing regimens which are all different between the various players.
We have not disclosed or read-out our Phase 3 program and that will be coming soon in a topline fashion.
So we will wait to say any more until when we see those data in a complete form but we are bullish on the class.
Excellent Dave.
Thanks Dave.
Derica? Hi Marc.
As it relates to the U.S.
and the managed Medicaid this is really us as we got additional receipts in from customers.
We were able to true up the accruals and provisions on our book.
Dollar wise it's about $60 million which in effect was about two percentage points of growth in the U.S.
So just as a reminder our U.S.
overall sales was down about 30%.
If you were to exclude the impact of the Cymbalta and Evista patent expirations our growth was a positive 13% which was about eight percentage points of price five percentage points of volume.
So of that eight percentage points of price two percentage points of that was the managed Medicaid adjustment.
Excellent.
Thank you Derica.
Enrique? Sure.
Marc you are correct.
When we look at the underlying script growth for our insulin business in the U.S.
Q1 and Q2 are very comparable but we do see you in terms of our reported sales we were at minus 1% for Humalog in Q1 and we were 17% growth for Q2.
So a big difference there.
Let's remember that in Q1 we had a significant wholesaler destocking that impact in the growth rate.
In the case of Humalog that impact was 8 to 9 percentage points in Q1.
So that that explains the part of the difference.
In Q2 we just discussed managed Medicaid in the case of Humalog that impact was 4%.So those were we had I guess some very unique impacts to each one of those quarters.
Great.
Thank you Enrique.
Toni next caller please.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Damien Conover with MorningStar.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just a follow-up on the insulin franchise.
Just had a question for the pricing power with Humulin.
It looks like a very strong growth in the U.S.
with price.
I just kind of want to understand that in the context of the Express Scripts negotiations on getting on the formulary there but still being able to drive some price.
Wondering if that price is coming from customers outside that formulary? Or if that formulary still allows for some pricing power? And then secondly when you think about the renegotiations with the PBMs and we are likely to see the formularies in August I wanted to see if anything strategically has changed with the negotiations there after you have had a couple quarters here of a more aggressive negotiation that happened last year? Thank you.
Damien thank you for the questions.
Enrique Conterno.
Sure.
On Humulin a big part of our human insulin franchise in the case of Humulin is that we have a very unique product in Humulin R U-500 which basically has significant growth on where the pricing pressures are not as high as with the rest of the insulin franchise and you basically see some of that reflected in terms of both price and volume.
Your second question related to our ongoing discussions or negotiation with the PBMs and payors I won't be able to share much on that front.
Okay great.
Damien thanks for the questions.
Toni next caller please? Thank you.
Your next question comes form the line of Gregg Gilbert with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning.
I wanted to go back briefly to the inversion subject.
And for John and Derica companies that have done inversions almost always claim that tax efficiency is a secondary sort of effect.
So I would like to hear how you are and the Board is thinking John on this subject has evolved over the past year or so? And sort of a nitpicky follow-up.
Derica you indicated that Lilly isn't considering or doesn't generally agree with large scale M&amp;A for Lilly.
But would a $20 billion to $30 billion deal definitionally be considered large scale M&amp;A? Thanks.
Okay great.
Thank you very much for the questions.
Welcome back to the fold.
Wasn't expecting to hearing you on the call but its great to hear your voice.
Derica for the inversion and the definition of large scale please.
Well to me $20 billion to $30 billion is a pretty large number.
At least from my basic math class in Alabama.
So maybe the rest of the question is moved then? Again even if we were preparing to through our series of patent expirations and there is a lot of speculation of other thoughts we needed to do to manage our way through this tough period in the history of Lilly and still clearly large-scale M&amp;A was one of the options that was on the table.
Again as we looked at all the data both looking at other transactions by other firms that historically there is that near-term benefit you can gain but longer-term the core to this industry and we believe the core to our business as Lilly is your ability to innovative and get new molecules out of your labs that create clinical differentiation.
And so that's where we chose to focus and expend our energy.
So when we think about business development transactions ways that we can augment that innovative platform or footprint for us we are absolutely interested in.
Things that would begin to create a distraction and could begin to hamper or dampen our ability to produce new innovative research and development are things that we are really quite not interested at the moment.
And for us it's been a combination of those smaller deal bolting on to our organic strategy and I see that being the path going forward.
Gregg it's John Lechleiter.
It's nice to hear from you.
I think the only other comment I would make is look I think that the activity around inversions right now just points to a failure of our U.S.
tax code and it really keeps American companies not just Pharma industry but across industries from being competitive with their overseas counterparts.
We have been talking about tax reform.
I think the first TV interview I gave when I became CEO in 2008 a big discussion was tax reform.
We need a lower rate.
We need a territorial system.
We don't need Band-Aid approaches in between.
It's time for the Congress to step up to the bar and get this thing done.
Thanks gentlemen.
Thanks Gregg.
Thanks John.
Toni next caller please.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Mark Purcell with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Staying with diabetes lots of questions.
But I wondered for clarification for the glargine product in Europe should I expect from some of the comments you made so far to see this product launched in Europe in Q2 next year? And then in terms of the SGLT/DPP4 combo actually you are about a year ahead.
So again heading in towards a Class 1 review how confident you are of launching that product after the PDUFA early 2015? Straying away from diabetes and thinking about your margin targets and where you are heading with a very broad pipeline.
Some of these areas you are heading into are fairly crowded.
There could be some serious battles in primary care and cholesterol.
Obviously there's some entrenched competition increasing competition in the immunology space.
So how do you consider going alone on some of these assets outside your core are for the moment versus partnering with players already in the space? And then lastly clearly some very rigorous management recession on R&amp;D costs as you mentioned several times on the call.
Should we be more comfortable now towards the lower end of your guidance range for SG&amp;A and R&amp;D cost lines for the full year? Or are there phasing effect such as initiation of new R&amp;D trials which we need to be alerted to at this point? Thanks a lot.
Great Mark.
Thank you for the questions.
We will have Enrique take the questions on the insulin glargine in the European Union and then thoughts on the lunchtime for the SGLT2/DPP4 combo and then for the going alone versus partnering some of how we think about that given some of the investments required to compete in these marketplaces Derica if I would ask you to maybe make a comment based on these volunteer business in particular if you want to comments as well please feel free to and then Derica if you could comment on the lower end the guidance range we have got for SG&amp;A and R&amp;D and how we should be thinking about where we are tracking.
Enrique? So when it comes to glargine in Europe as I mentioned we are expecting to launch after the patent expiration in Europe.
I do not believe that I provided an expect date on that but clearly we are undertaking all of the preparations so that we can do that.
When it comes to the SGLT2/DPP4 combination the EMPA/LINA fixed dose combination we had shared that we have submitted that.
We shared that early this year which basically puts with an action date of early 2015.
Great.
Thank you Enrique.
Derica? Mark I will start with that the guidance in terms of operating expenses.
I am not able to guide the investment community to one end or the other of the range.
What I can say is we feel very good about meeting those goals that we established for the year and we feel very confident that we will be within the range that we provided.
As it relate to I guess your earlier question also around as we look at our portfolio the good news is that we believe we produce an abundance of clinical opportunities in our pipeline and some of those are core areas and some of those are maybe outside or tangential.
Clearly we will be able to evaluate each of those molecules and decide which path we choose to pursue as we consider each one of those.
But the good news is that we have optimality and Dave I don't know if there is anything you would like to add to that.
Well nothing more than we always look I think almost every asset at options to partner either to share risk if it's a critical stage asset or as the asset matures a trade value sometimes by accessing reach sometimes by capability or this other unique sort of portfolio fits or portfolio trade options that manifest themselves.
So we are open-minded about all that but it has to make sense in terms of value creation and we are not going to talk about those in advance in this setting.
But I think that's our mindset as it relates to partnering.
Excellent.
Thanks Dave.
Toni next caller please.
Thank you.
And our last question comes -- disregard.
They have disconnected.
Thank you.
Okay all right.
Having exhausted the queue I will turn it over to John to close our call today.
John? Okay thanks Phil.
And I will be brief.
To all those on the call we appreciate your continued interest in Lilly.
Our performance once again is in line with our expectations this quarter.
We are on track to meet our 2014 financial goals and continued progress advancing the pipeline places us on track to return to growth and margin expansion post 2014.
We believe our strategy is the right one for Lilly to create value for patients for physicians payors and of course our shareholders.
And our ability to execute so far gives us increasing confidence that Lilly is indeed poised for growth.
As always you can expect we will keep you apprised of our progress.
Thanks again.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 11:30 Eastern today.
You may access the AT&amp;T digitized replay system by calling 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 330570.
Digitized replay will be available through July 31 2014 at midnight.
Once again those numbers are 1-800-475-6701.
International participants may dial 320-365-3844 and enter access code 330570.
That does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Third Quarter Financial Review.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Chairman President and CEO John Lechleiter.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to discuss Eli Lilly &amp; Company's third quarter 2014 earnings.
I'm John Lechleiter Lilly's Chairman President and CEO.
Joining me on today's call are Derica Rice our Chief Financial Officer; Dr.
Jan Lundberg our President of Lilly Research Laboratories; Dr.
Sue Mahony President of Lilly Oncology; Enrique Conterno President of Lilly Diabetes; Dave Ricks who's President of our Lilly Bio-Medicines business; Chito Zulueta President of Emerging Markets; Jeff Simmons President of Elanco Animal Health; and Ilissa Rassner Brad Robling and Phil Johnson of our IR team.
During this conference call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on Slide 3 and those outlined in our latest forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
Before we cover our third quarter results in detail I'd like to provide some high-level comments about where I see our company at this important juncture.
Losing patent protection in relatively rapid succession for Gemzar Zyprexa Cymbalta and Evista created an unprecedented challenge for Lilly.
Leading up to and through this period of patent expirations our management team made disciplined choices so that we could invest to drive growth in key brands geographies and businesses and replenish and advance our pipeline.
We've stayed focused on executing our strategy and I'm proud of the results we delivered to-date.
In the face of a series of major patent expirations we drove strong financial results from the rest of our business.
We delivered on our promise to maintain our dividend while at the same time returning additional cash to shareholders via share repurchase.
And the significant progress we've made with our pipeline reflected in the large number of regulatory and clinical milestones achieved this past quarter validates the decision we made to maintain our investment in R&amp;D.
As we begin to turn the corner with multiple new product launches over the course of this year and next having withstood the profound economic impact of patent expirations for 4 of our largest products we also recognize we operate in an ever more challenging external environment.
We intend to apply the same focused disciplined execution of our strategies that we've displayed in recent years in order to succeed and I'm confident we will.
We aim to compete effectively and to win in diabetes oncology and animal health.
This includes investing in successful launches for Jardiance Trulicity and Cyramza including important new indications of line extensions and continuing to drive growth in our Elanco business following the acquisition of Novartis Animal Health.
In the near term and long term these businesses represent significant growth opportunities for our company that we must capitalize on.
In our Bio-Medicines business we have opportunities to drive a subsequent wave of substantial growth in areas that include autoimmune disorders with molecules like ixekizumab and baricitinib; cardiovascular disease with evacetrapib; Alzheimer's disease with solanezumab and other molecules to follow; and in pain with tanezumab and our CGRP antibody all dependent on Phase III data readouts that will be accomplished for the most part over the next 2 years.
In R&amp;D we will sustain the flow from our pipeline and bring ever more innovative drugs to patients and do so more quickly and effectively than in the past.
On the commercial side of our business we will continue our quest to find ever more efficient and effective ways to engage physicians patients and payers and we intend to capitalize on compelling growth opportunities in Asia in particular specifically Japan and China.
Going forward we'll remain focused on executing our innovation-based strategy focusing in on those areas where we have strong presence and capabilities or where we determine we can establish a leadership position.
We believe this provides the best opportunity to meaningfully improve patients' lives and create value for shareholders.
With that let's turn to the key events since last quarter's call.
For the second quarter in a row we launched a new product.
In the second quarter we launched Cyramza in the U.S.
for second line gastric cancer.
In the third quarter in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim we launched the oral SGLT2 inhibitor Jardiance in the U.S.
and in certain European countries.
We're optimistic about the potential of this brand including the opportunities that could come with being first to market with a fixed dose combination of an SGLT2 and a DPP-4 as well as being the first SGLT2 to report out results from a large cardiovascular outcome study in the second half of next year.
We've also had a large number of positive developments on the regulatory front.
In fact I cannot recall another time in my 35 years with Lilly so full of positive regulatory actions.
In our diabetes business we achieved regulatory milestones in the U.S.
Europe and Japan for dulaglutide our once weekly GLP agonist.
Here in the U.S.
the FDA approved dulaglutide or Trulicity for the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes.
Trulicity truly was designed with the patient in mind.
It comes in a single dose pen that does not require mixing measuring or needle attachment and can be administered any time of day independent of meals.
We're excited to enter the GLP-1 market with Trulicity and we believe this product can be a catalyst for growth of the class.
We began shipments of Trulicity here in the U.S.
earlier this week.
In Europe the CHMP recommended approval of Trulicity and we anticipate European Commission approval this quarter with European launches beginning early next year.
In Japan we submitted dulaglutide for regulatory review and expect regulatory action in the second half of 2015.
The European Commission also approved the Humalog 200 units per milliliter KwikPen for the treatment of diabetes.
This product is bioequivalent to our current product Humalog 100 and is intended for people with diabetes who take more than 20 units of rapid acting insulin per day.
In the U.S.
we remain on track to resubmit Humalog U-200 by year end.
In collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim we achieved additional regulatory milestones in the last 3 months.
We received FDA approval of Jardiance or empagliflozin a once daily oral SGLT2 inhibitor for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
As I mentioned earlier we launched the product in both the U.S.
and Europe during the third quarter.
Also in the U.S.
we submitted the fixed dose combination of empagliflozin and metformin.
In addition we made progress with our insulin glargine product as the U.S.
FDA granted tentative approval of Basaglar.
With this action the FDA determined that Basaglar meets all regulatory requirements for approval.
However it is subject to an automatic stay of final approval as a result of patent infringement litigation filed by Sanofi.
The FDA may not give final approval until mid-2016 unless the court determines the patent is not infringed or is invalid or unenforceable prior to that time.
We're confident that we do not infringe any of the patent claims asserted and that we will prevail in this litigation.
In Europe the European Commission granted full approval of our insulin glargine product.
This product called Abasria is the first insulin approved using Europe's biosimilar pathway.
Lilly and Boehringer Ingelheim will launch our insulin glargine product based on dates that do not infringe valid and enforceable patents.
As you can see over these past 3 months we made significant progress advancing our diabetes pipeline moving closer to our goal of offering the widest range of diabetes treatment spanning orals GLP-1s and insulins both basal and mealtime.
We feel each of our products will be competitive in its class putting us in a unique position to help people with diabetes as well as the physicians who help them manage their disease.
Diabetes wasn't the only area where we saw significant regulatory progress.
Our oncology group has been busy as well.
We achieved regulatory milestones for ramucirumab across all 3 major geographies.
We received a positive opinion in Europe for ramucirumab in second line gastric cancer.
This opinion included use in combination with paclitaxel as well as monotherapy use.
As with Trulicity we anticipate European Commission approval late in this quarter with European launches beginning early next year.
We submitted ramucirumab to Japanese regulators for the treatment of second line gastric cancer and were granted a priority review.
We expect regulatory action in Japan in the first half of 2015.
And here in the U.S.
we submitted ramucirumab to the FDA as a treatment for second line non-small cell lung cancer.
The FDA assigned a priority review and we anticipate FDA action before the end of this year.
This could lead to a launch in early 2015.
Keep in mind as well that we have an ongoing FDA review of ramucirumab in combination with paclitaxel in second line gastric cancer.
The action date for this submission is in the first quarter of next year and we expect FDA to act on or before the action date.
Finally with FDA having granted Fast Track status to necitumumab as a first-line treatment for squamous non-small cell lung cancer we initiated our rolling submission which we expect to complete before the end of this year.
Turning now to clinical news.
During the quarter we also had Phase III trials read out in each of our therapeutic business areas: diabetes oncology and bio-medicines.
In diabetes we announced positive top line results of 2 Phase III clinical trials in patients with type 1 diabetes for basal insulin peglispro or BIL which is being studied as a once daily treatment for both type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
In both trials BIL showed a statistically superior reduction in HbA1c compared with Lantus.
We've now completed the clinical trials for registration and are on track to submit to U.S.
and European regulators by the end of the first quarter of 2015.
In oncology we announced positive top line results for RAISE.
This is a Phase III study of Cyramza as second line treatment in combination with chemotherapy in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
RAISE showed a statistically significant improvement in overall survival in patients treated with ramucirumab plus chemotherapy compared to chemotherapy alone.
We expect to initiate regulatory submissions based on these data in the first half of 2015.
This marks the fourth positive Phase III trial in which Cyramza has improved overall survival 2 in second line gastric cancer 1 in second line lung cancer and this 1 in second line metastatic colorectal cancer.
Finally in our Bio-Medicines business we announced positive top line results for 3 Phase III studies of Ixekizumab in patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis.
All primary and key secondary objectives were met in the 3 studies and Ixekizumab was superior to Enbrel on all measures of skin clearance in both of the active comparator trials.
In our Phase III trials up to 41% of patients treated with Ixekizumab achieved clear skin at week 12 with just 1 injection per dose.
These results give us confidence that if approved Ixekizumab could make complete resolution of psoriasis possible for significantly more people.
We plan to submit Ixekizumab to regulatory authorities in the first half of next year.
We also announced our decision to discontinue development of tabalumab our anti-BAFF antibody.
This decision was due to insufficient efficacy in 2 Phase III trials in lupus as well as in a Phase II trial in multiple myeloma.
I'd also highlight at the Annual Meeting of the European Society for medical oncology we presented detailed data from the Phase III REACH trial studying ramucirumab as a second line treatment in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma after treatment with sorafenib in the first-line setting.
While the study did not meet its primary endpoint of improved overall survival for the full study population we saw encouraging results in patients with high baseline levels of alpha-fetoprotein.
These data could form the basis of continued study of ramucirumab in this setting.
During the third quarter we completed enrollment in our core registration program for baricitinib in rheumatoid arthritis.
Later in the call Derica will provide you an update of our plans for top line press releases for this program.
We also began Phase III testing for our CDK4/6 inhibitor abemaciclib as we dosed our first patients in the first of 2 breast cancer trials.
Dosing in the second breast cancer trials and in a lung cancer trial is anticipated later this quarter.
In business development news we announced an agreement with AstraZeneca to codevelop and commercialize AZD3293 an oral beta-secretase cleaving enzyme or base inhibitor currently in development as a potential treatment for Alzheimer's disease.
We recognize the initial milestone of $50 million pretax or approximately $0.03 per share after-tax as a charge to earnings in the third quarter.
We aim to advance this potent base inhibitor quickly into a Phase II/III clinical trial in patients with early Alzheimer's disease.
Lilly will lead clinical development while AstraZeneca will be responsible for manufacturing.
The companies will take joint responsibility for commercialization.
In line with our previously announced plans we completed the sale of Lohmann Animal Health feed additives business to a management-led group.
And earlier this week we announced an expansion of our existing research agreement with Zymeworks to include development of immunomodulatory by specific antibodies for cancer.
In other news we announced plans to close and sell 1 of our 3 manufacturing plants in Puerto Rico.
As a result of this action we expect to record a charge of approximately $170 million pretax or approximately $0.16 per share after-tax in the fourth quarter.
The IRS issued final regulations related to administration of the branded prescription drug fee under the Affordable Care Act.
The final regulations modify the timing of when a company must recognize expense for their share of the fee.
As a result we recognized a $119 million non-tax-deductible charge in the third quarter for the fee we expect to pay in 2015.
This accounting change has no impact on the timing of cash payments.
Also the third quarter charge is excluded from our non-GAAP results.
Finally during the third quarter we repurchased shares worth $300 million under our $5 billion share repurchase program.
Since authorizing the program in October of last year we've now repurchased $1 billion worth of our shares.
Combined with our dividend in the last year we've distributed $3 billion to shareholders.
And now I'll turn the call over to Phil for a discussion of our financial performance for the quarter.
Phil? Thanks John.
First I'll review our GAAP results and then discuss a few non-GAAP measures to provide some additional insights into the underlying trends in our business.
Moving to Slide 8 you can see that our Q3 revenue was $4.9 billion which is 16% lower than Q3 2013.
This decrease in revenue reflects a decline of $1 billion in U.S.
Cymbalta sales on a loss of exclusivity in December last year.
In addition U.S.
sales of Evista declined over $150 million following that product's loss of exclusivity in March of this year.
Excluding Cymbalta and Evista in the U.S.
the rest of our worldwide revenue grew 7% mainly from volume.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue decreased 5.2 percentage points also driven by the loss of U.S.
exclusivity for Cymbalta and Evista.
In Q3 both this year and last year the effect of foreign exchange rates on international inventory sold had a minimal impact on cost of sales.
Excluding this FX effect from both 2013 and 2014 gross margin as a percent of revenue declined 4.8 percentage points from 79% in Q3 2013 to 74.2% in Q3 2014.
As in past quarters we've included a supplementary slide providing our gross margin percent for the last 10 quarters with and without this FX effect.
Non-GAAP measures are shown on Slide 9.
Total operating expense defined as the sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A decreased 8% or nearly $235 million versus Q3 of 2013.
Marketing selling and administrative expenses were down 6% while R&amp;D was down 10%.
The reduction in marketing selling and administrative expenses was due to the reduction in sales and marketing activities for Cymbalta as well as our ongoing cost containment efforts.
The decline in R&amp;D expenses was driven primarily by a reduction in late stage development costs partially offset by a $63 million charge associated with the termination of tabalumab development.
Excluding this charge R&amp;D expenses declined 14% and total operating expenses declined 10%.
Other income expense was net income of $93 million in Q3 2014 compared to a net expense of $31 million in the third quarter of 2013 with the change driven primarily by gains on the sale of certain equity holdings and income from miscellaneous milestones earned.
Our non-GAAP tax rate of 22% an increase of 1.5 percentage points compared to Q3 last year.
The main reason for this increase in the tax rate is the lapse of the R&amp;D tax credit at the end of last year.
At the bottom line net income and earnings per share declined 41%.
As in the first half of the year this decline is significant but very much in line with our expectations and places us on track to achieve our full year non-GAAP EPS guidance.
On Slide 10 we provide the same reconciliation of non-GAAP adjusted information for our year-to-date results.
Moving to Slide 11 you'll find a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS and additional details about our reported earnings are available in today's earnings press release.
As you're aware nearly all of our peers exclude amortization of intangibles from their non-GAAP results while we include this expense.
For your modeling purposes please note that we recognized amortization expense of $134 million representing 2.7% of revenue this quarter.
Many of you on both the buy side and sell side have noted that our inclusion of amortization expense in our non-GAAP results distorts comparisons of our financial ratios with those of our peers.
After careful consideration we've decided that we will exclude amortization expense from our non-GAAP results beginning in 2015.
In particular we hope that this change will assist portfolio managers in making better buy-sell decisions.
Now let's look at how price rate and volume affected our revenue growth.
On Slide 12 you can see the total revenue decline of 16% in Q3 2014 shown on the yellow box in the middle of the page and that this decline was almost entirely driven by volume.
Price added about 1% to revenue growth while the impact of FX was 0.
Excluding U.S.
Cymbalta and Evista the rest of our worldwide revenue grew 7% with about 5.5 percentage points of growth coming from volume and the rest from price.
Touching on some of the geographic highlights.
In the U.S.
pharma revenue declined 37% driven by a volume decline of 38%.
Excluding Cymbalta and Evista the rest of our U.S.
pharma revenue increased 6% about half from volume and about half from price.
Pharma revenue in Japan grew 4% with exchange rate masking stronger underlying growth.
As you can see volume was up 10% in Japan and revenue growth in constant currency terms was 9%.
In Emerging Markets we saw strong growth of 18% almost all from volume.
Sales in our largest emerging market country China grew 21%.
I'd also highlight the consistent strong growth we've seen from our Emerging Markets business this year with 14% revenue growth in constant currency terms through the first 9 months of the year.
Finally Elanco Animal Health posted revenue growth of 10%.
The Lohmann acquisition drove 6 percentage points of growth with our base business driving the remaining 4 percentage points.
This lower base business growth is due primarily to competitive pressures and to a lesser extent to slower market growth in the U.S.
Now let me turn the call over to Derica.
Thanks Phil.
On Slide 13 you'll see the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on the growth rates for select items of our income statement.
FX had almost no impact on our revenue or operating expenses this quarter.
As Phil mentioned FX only had very little effect on cost of sales.
As a result the decline in our EPS is very similar with and without FX.
Slide 14 shows our pipeline as of October 16.
As John discussed earlier Lilly and Boehringer Ingelheim received European approval and tentative U.S.
approval for our new insulin glargine product and the FDA approved Trulicity.
These approvals leave our regulatory review column empty.
However this shouldn't last long as we expect to complete regulatory submissions for necitumumab basal insulin peglispro and Ixekizumab over the next 3 quarters.
As mentioned earlier we began Phase III testing for abemaciclib in breast cancer.
We began Phase I testing of 2 monoclonal antibodies 1 for cancer and the other for rheumatoid arthritis and we added the base inhibitor through our collaboration agreement with AstraZeneca.
Finally we terminated development of tabalumab and of a Phase I oncology asset.
Next let me remind you of our key events for 2014 and review our updated 2014 financial guidance.
We're very pleased with the progress we've made on the key events we laid out for you at the beginning of the year.
As you can see from the green check marks on Slide 15 all the possible regulatory actions resulted in timely approvals and we achieved nearly all of the other pipeline milestones.
It's certainly been a very productive year and a pivotal one as we emerge from our YZ patent expiry period and look to return to growth.
Before the end of the year we expect to begin our second Phase III breast cancer study as well as our Phase III lung cancer study with abemaciclib.
We expect to complete the rolling FDA submission of necitumumab for first-line squamous non-small cell lung cancer.
We expect to receive FDA action on ramucirumab for second line non-small cell lung cancer and we expect to lose European data package exclusivity for Cymbalta in depression following a loss of data package exclusivity for stress urinary incontinence in the third quarter.
We continue to expect generic duloxetine to enter the European market in 2015.
Also after discussions with Incyte we've agreed upon our disclosure plan for the Phase III trials of baricitinib in rheumatoid arthritis.
This includes issuing the top line press release for the first trial late this year or early next year.
In addition the top line press release for the final 2 trials is likely to be issued late next year after completion of the full 52 weeks of treatment.
Clearly we've achieved a great deal in 2014 and we're looking forward to maintaining this momentum both as we close out the year and during 2015.
Now let's turn to our 2014 financial guidance.
Our performance through September places us on track to achieve our full year non-GAAP EPS guidance which remains unchanged at $2.72 to $2.80.
We are updating our GAAP EPS guidance which is now $2.34 to $2.42 to reflect the charges taken in the third quarter as well as those announced for Q4.
In addition we are updating a number of the individual line items.
We've narrowed our revenue range to $19.4 billion to $19.8 billion due to the weakening of the euro yen and pound that occurred late in the third quarter as well as the recent competitive pressures and market dynamics in the U.S.
we're seeing in Animal Health.
Both of these factors prevent future headwinds for revenue.
We raised our estimate of the gross margin percent to roughly 74.5%.
A major driver of this change is the weakening of the euro.
While that brings a revenue headwind it does provide a near-term benefit on the cost of sales.
In addition a shutdown to implement production changes at one of our bulk insulin plants will now occur solely in 2015 rather than span 2014 and 2015.
As a result idle plant a period manufacturing expense will shift out of 2014 into 2015 benefiting this year.
In total our operating expense guidance is essentially unchanged although we have modified the range for the individual components.
We've narrowed and lowered the non-GAAP range for marketing selling and administrative expenses to $6.3 billion to $6.5 billion and we've added a line to reflect GAAP guidance for the same line item which includes the $119 million additional pharma manufacturing fee.
We've narrowed and raised the range for research and development expenses to $4.6 billion to $4.8 billion to reflect the third quarter charge for tabalumab the base deal with AstraZeneca and trends in our research spending.
Based on the amount of year-to-date other income we've raised the non-GAAP range for other income and expense to a range of $200 million to $250 million of income.
While our non-GAAP tax rate guidance continues to be approximately 19% we're now providing GAAP tax rate guidance of approximately 20%.
These tax rates assume a full year 2014 benefit of the R&amp;D tax credit and other tax provisions up for extension.
If these items are not extended both 2014 tax rates would be approximately 2 percentage points higher.
Similarly our expectation for non-GAAP minimum net income remains unchanged at $2.9 billion and we're now providing our expectation of GAAP minimum net income of $2.6 billion.
Finally our guidance for minimum operating cash flow as well as capital expenditures is unchanged.
Keep in mind that our 2014 financial guidance assumes the acquisition of Novartis Animal Health closes in 2015.
Should the acquisition close during 2014 we'll revise our 2014 financial guidance if necessary.
On Slide 17 we provided a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS for 2013 and the associated growth rates from these numbers to our 2014 guidance.
Now before the Q&amp;A session let me briefly sum up.
From a financial perspective the first 9 months of the year have played out much as we'd expected.
We've seen our revenues and earnings decline due to the U.S.
patent expirations of Cymbalta and Evista.
We've prudently managed expenses driving a double-digit reduction in our operating expense base.
From a pipeline perspective we've met or exceeded our expectations.
The flow of positive regulatory and pipeline news has been substantial and we've launched 3 new products: Cyramza Jardiance and Trulicity.
The steady advance of the pipeline strengthens our confidence in our innovation-based strategy and our commitment to accelerate discoveries to the people who need them.
In addition it positions us well for a return to growth and expand margins in 2015 and beyond.
And now I'll turn the call over to Phil for the Q&amp;A session Thanks Derica.
Marla if you could go ahead and provide instructions to the callers for the Q&amp;A session please? [Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Tony Butler with Guggenheim Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions if I may.
One perhaps to Derica or maybe even to Dave Ricks and the second to you John.
The first is really around the sales footprint.
You've done a very nice job at keeping cost down but the question is with new launches obviously there is the need for additional marketing expense and maybe additional salesperson.
So I'd love for you to -- if you could provide some idea or thoughts around both U.S.
and non-U.S.
footprint with respect to sales individuals.
And then the second John you've made a good comment about keeping the dividend at the same rate especially as you entered this particular year but as you move forward with these new launches have you given some thought to when it's prudent for the overall business to actually raise that rate? Tony for the sales footprint Dave if you don't mind maybe talking about some of the things that have been going on in maybe U.S.
and Europe and in terms of some of the restructuring since you've been very involved in that.
And then maybe Enrique and Sue if you could talk about some of the preparations for launches since that's hitting you first in terms of the progression of the pipeline.
And then Derica if you want to take the question on the plans we have for the dividend thoughts around the dividend.
Great.
Tony as it relates to the loss of exclusivity products as we've been discussing here over the last 2 years we've been taking down our sales footprint market by market.
Typically those are anticipating.
They have been in advance of the LOE event.
So in the U.S.
you're seeing the full year effect of sales reductions in 2014 which mostly occurred in 2013 related to Evista and Cymbalta.
As it relates to Europe our patents are expiring this last quarter reporting on now some of those actions have been taken some have not.
But we do anticipate over the next year rationalizing the footprint to the products we have in biomed not including Cymbalta of course being the major contributor.
Going forward we're quite confident we have the personnel and coverage to launch our new product portfolio effectively in those major markets.
Of course we're shifting much more to a specialty type business so the absolute numbers are lower than what we had in the past in biomedicines.
Enrique? Sure.
So when it comes to diabetes Tony we've had a very significant footprint on a worldwide basis.
I think what we have said before is that we basically expect to leverage this footprint.
We do see some increases but they are limited when it comes to our overall sales force.
We've seen some increases in the U.S.
but more marginal when it comes to Europe.
Tony with regards to oncology we're going to be using the footprint that we have in oncology.
We've got an experienced oncology sales team globally very experienced in thoracic oncology and as well historically in GI and we'll be using the expertise and the people that we've got globally on that commercial perspective to launch our products.
Tony this is Derica.
From a dividend perspective just historically before we entered this YZ period our dividend payout ratio was in the 40% range or the mid-40s and that's kind of been on par with where our peers were as well.
We knew as we went through this period that we would see a spike in our payout ratio as we went through this income decline so the law of the ratio itself.
As it pertains to when would we consider to increasing the dividend going forward I don't believe we'll wait until we have to get back to that 40% 45% range.
It's going to be more predicated on our confidence as we see how some of the pipeline and regulatory and launch news play out over these next couple of years.
We'll go to Mark Schoenebaum with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> If I may just 2 quick ones.
Number 1 just a clarification.
Can you guys clarify what if any interim analyses might be available to you for solanezumab as well as evacetrapib in 2015? Again if any.
And number 2 I was wondering if you could speak about the Tradjenta outcomes trial.
I'm just wondering if there is prospectively evaluated endpoint of hospitalizations for heart failure.
This has obviously become an endpoint of interest to the physician and the Wall Street community.
Mark if you can still hear me are you referring to the Tradjenta outcome study or studies or are you referring to the empagliflozin outcomes that we talked about having data for in the second half of next year? Research Division</strong> Actually both would be nice.
I knew when I asked the question that'd probably be the answer.
All right we'll see if we can accommodate that.
So Dave if you could start us off please with the interims for solanezumab.
Enrique if you want to handle the question on the measures for the outcome study that would be great.
Thanks Mark.
On evacetrapib we have said we will be conducting an interim analysis.
We expect that to be happening sometime in the first half of 2015.
This is of course a safety review but also includes some efficacy features.
I think as we've said before it's a reasonably low bar given that in lipid management studies quite a bit of the benefit is often seen in the back half of the trial.
So we'll of course await that event and communicate quickly afterward if there's any change to the program.
Otherwise we continue to expect a final readout on that data in 2016.
As it relates to solanezumab we did build into the protocol a possibility of an interim review.
We have not decided to conduct that or not.
One of the key reasons for that is this review needs to be conducted late enough where we have enough patient exposures.
You may remember in EXPEDITION 1 and 2 a lot of the benefits started to accumulate after 40 weeks of exposure.
And there's a relationship between the rate at which we've recruited the study and whether there'd be value in conducting such an assessment or just waiting a short time further for the final result.
The study continues to enroll and so we'll be making that determination sometime in the next 12 months.
Enrique? Very good.
So just to clarify we are expecting for our EMPA CV trial to report out next year and when it comes to Tradjenta in 2018.
So a big difference in terms of when we expect the results.
Both of these trials have similar measures.
So we look of course the CV desk we look at MI and we look at stroke.
In addition to that the Tradjenta trial has hospitalization for unstable angina.
So those are the prospective measures that we look at.
We do have the ability to look at hospitalization due to heart failure.
This is of course an important measure.
We would know more about the DPP-4 class I think when the tech study basically reports out from Merck's up and down [ph] we should get some clarity in terms of this particular measure.
And next we'll go to Tim Anderson with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> As you near the launch of your Lantus look-alike the insulin glargine product I'm hoping you can give us your latest commercial assessment of the opportunity both here in the U.S.
and then in Europe where you'll launch first.
At one point in the past you talked about what you thought could be the market share potential of your product which was quite a bit higher than how Sanofi has described it and they continue to minimize the threat to their product from your program.
When are we going to learn more from Lilly on some of the EU specifics like pricing and exact launch timing? And then my second question is on as we near the end of 2014 and move into 2015 I'm hoping you can qualitatively describe the pushes and pulls in R&amp;D spending.
It seems that you've crossed a lot of milestones in your pipeline and maybe there could be some easing up on R&amp;D spending and that's already a trend it seems like that we've started to see in 2014.
So directionally as you think about R&amp;D in 2015 what should we be considering? Thanks Tim.
So Enrique if you'll handle the first question and then maybe Jan and I will tag team the second question for you.
Enrique? Well on glargine I don't think that we've discussed before what we believe is going to be our share update.
I think what we have shared is that we expect that glargine will continue to be a very important product going forward.
Clearly there is a very significant opportunity.
How biosimilars in Europe or in the U.S.
these glargine follow ons basically compete and what those dynamics will be will be critical to see what is going to be the share of the overall biosimilar market.
We clearly are not the only 1 that are coming.
We are maybe the first that will be entering the marketplace.
But clearly for us we like our chances because we do have the commercial footprint the expertise in diabetes and the very extensive manufacturing capacity and devices to make sure that we can provide an excellent customer experience and go toe-to-toe with Sanofi.
So we do have expectations for this product.
We have to recognize that this is a very significant opportunity overall and even any type of level of market share can be basically meaningful from a revenue perspective.
Tim this is Phil.
On your second question just as a preamble.
We will issue official financial guidance including R&amp;D spend on January 7 of 2015 for 2015.
In that same meeting as we have in the past we'll talk about some of the specific late stage developments that we would expect over the course of the year including Phase III starts so I'll limit my remarks today to some of the things that are sort of already out there and known in the public.
For pushes and pulls on R&amp;D spend clearly we've had a lot of trials read out this year that will not be continuing into 2015 that does provide some relief in terms of year-on-year compares.
We do have trials that are ramping up for things like abemaciclib as we'll have all 3 of those trials enrolling quickly we expect over the course of 2014 and what remains in 2015.
We also pending the full removal of the partial clinical hold by FDA could be restarting Phase III trials and a significant number of them potentially for tanezumab that would also add spend in 2015 that we did not have in 2014.
And then also the collaboration with AstraZeneca for the base inhibitor which we're excited about we do expect more spend in '15 compared to '14.
In the past Derica on many occasions has said that going forward roughly we're looking at the sort of $5 billion number plus or minus a few hundred million dollars likely as the place that we will be obviously dependent upon pipeline outcomes and good investment opportunities in the pipeline.
Jan do you want to comment maybe on some of the things that are in earlier stage development that you're following in or are very interested in? Right.
I think we should remember that positive Phase III readouts also would trigger additional opportunities.
And we have a number of line extension opportunities and also the new combinations and so on that -- that we could pursue which we are currently discussing and this is oncology diabetes and the autoimmune space for instance.
We also are very keen then of how sustainability of the pipeline and looking at additional Phase II investments.
And here oncology have a number of readouts next year including the gargalunisertive [ph] the TGF-beta compound the MetMAb and several others.
Diabetes we have the glucagon receptor antagonist or oral first in class agents.
And in the Alzheimer areas as Phil said we have our new base program in addition and we also have our plaque specific antibody N3pG which will generate new data.
And just to remind you we have also some very intriguing preclinical data with combinations of base and N3pG which actually cause more or less a total clearance of plaque in Alzheimer models.
In the pain area Phil mentioned tanezumab our NGF antibody which we are very excited about based on the previous data and various pain situations.
And we need to clear then the situation with the regulators with some additional preclinical safety data.
We have our CGRP antibody which we are not only testing in migraine prevention but also recently in osteoarthritis since we believe that this could be a pain mechanist that can be applied more generally.
We also are looking upon data from our PCSK9 antibody and evaluating then the efficacy and so on to see if this could be the potential best-in-class molecule in that area.
And blosozumab as you know we delayed Phase III start but they are working very much on a new formulation so we could come back.
And finally we are getting data from myostatin on muscle building and we have recently reported that this not only builds muscle mass but also strength.
So we have a lot of opportunities coming both on existing then enemies [ph] but also in some of the new ones.
We'll go to the line of Chris Schott with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just had 2 here.
First can you maybe just elaborate a little bit more on the animal health commentary from your press release and the prepared remarks on increased competitive dynamics? Just trying to understand that a little bit better.
And the second question was on the near term diabetes launches.
Can you just help set some expectations in how you're kind of seeing the shape of those launch curves? It seems like we've seen some kind of non first-in-class primary care launches that have seen fairly slow initial uptick in first year ramps.
And then these products go on to be very successful but I'm just trying to think with these opportunities is that a reasonable way to think about how these products will launch? Or is there anything you think about with these profiles or that you can do from a pair perspective that might result in a different kind of uptake curve for these products? Thanks Chris.
We'll have Jeff Simmons take your first question and Enrique take the second.
Jeff? I'll start kind of at a high level Chris.
As you know Lilly has been very intentional and strategic about its animal health business.
We've outpaced the industry in growth the last 6 years.
We intend this year to be at or above industry growth rates.
As you saw our growth driven by both Lohmann as well as organic growth that we've seen in our existing business.
But as Derica mentioned there's 2 competitive pressures that were anticipated and they are both first in the companion animal space seen a couple of new competitive entrants as well as we've seen the market actually not grow as anticipated.
That was driven by one cooler weather and then second is a little bit more movement into the OTC channels.
On the food animal side we've seen market growth not be quite as aggressive as it was last year.
Some of that is as you know the swine virus has dropped pig population around the world anywhere from 7% to 10% and then just some of the natural dynamics in the market.
I would say the other thing that materially impacted us was Zilmax last year went off the market and we saw 1.5% or so growth in our food animal business by filling this gap in the marketplace.
And so year-to-year that impacted our growth rate as well.
But overall we feel very good.
Acquisition growth international growth and innovation growth will allow us to see in the medium and long-term at or above industry growth rates.
Great.
Thanks Jeff.
Enrique? Maybe some comments on the structure of the market which I think in a certain way impacts how we basically view the upticks of new products.
And this is regardless of whether the product is first-in-class or second or third in the class.
First I think when we look at access about 50% of the market in the commercial space -- 50% of the market basically is available for access when it comes to new products.
First-in-class second-in-class third-in-class you're likely going to be on a lower tier when it comes to the co-pay but it is not off formulary.
About 25% of the market in the commercial space is going to have some sort of restrictions -- so step edits or some sort of restriction that goes beyond just the co-pay.
And about 1/4 of the market the rest of the market basically is of formulary.
So we need to take that into account as we look at the uptick of new products in today's world.
In Part D the situation is different because it basically takes a lot longer to be able to get into the Part D formulary.
And it's not as simple to be able to get into a Part D formulary in the middle of the year.
Now as we look at upticks for our products we look at our performance we've seen the plants where we have access.
Of course we also look at our overall performance.
But as I look at empagliflozin as I look at the issue of the 2 class I have to say that I'm very encouraged by the uptick of this class.
Not just the overall volume of prescriptions that we basically see but we basically have seen an acceleration of the upticks with the additional players coming into the market.
So that to me is very encouraging.
But not only is the quantity of prescriptions interesting but I think the dynamics of those prescriptions.
Because they are coming at the expense of sulfonylureas.
So primarily the substitution that is happening is for when it comes to new patients our patients instead of going to an SGU they are going to an SGLT2.
That to me I think is extremely interesting because there is the -- just today after metformin continue to be very widely used.
So I'm very encouraged by the uptick of the class.
It is early for me to make many comments about Jardiance but I would say based on 6 7 weeks that we're on the market that we're off to a strong start.
We'll go to David Risinger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have 3 questions.
First with respect to the SG&amp;A outlook should investors expect SG&amp;A to decline or stay [indiscernible] Dave you're cutting out.
We can barely hear you.
Research Division</strong> Sorry about that.
Is this better? Yes it is.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
So the first question is with respect to the SG&amp;A outlook.
Should investors expect SG&amp;A to decline in 2015 or stay flat? Second with respect to the earnings impact from the Novartis Animal Health acquisition in 2015 could you just review what you've stated previously and also comment on the amount of amortization that Lilly will exclude? And then third could you just provide some perspective on the variables that will impact your decision over the next year regarding whether or not to take an interim look at the solanezumab data? We'll have Derica handle the first 2 and then Dave do you want to do the third please? Derica? David in regards to the SG&amp;A outlook I'm not in a position to provide you '15 guidance at this point.
As Phil said we will have a more extensive dialogue around that on January 7.
So if you'll just kind of live with this till then.
And then likewise also in terms of the earnings impact anticipated from the Novartis Animal Health until we actually close the deal which we anticipate being some time in 2015 we're really not in a position to talk about that at this stage.
What we did say at the time we announced the deal is that by 2017 we would expect to have achieved at least $200 million of benefit or synergistic benefit that would result in cost savings as well as we should be able to get back to our historical levels of profitability in that 2017 and 2018 time frame which for our animal health business has been at that 25% roughly level of profitability.
As it relates to amortization what we can talk about at this stages is the amortization that we're seeing in our base business today.
Obviously it will be eventually impacted once we close the Novartis Animal Health deal.
But in this quarter alone we had $134 million of amortization expense in Lilly's results.
And on an annual basis it's about $500 million $540 million.
And then obviously if we're able to close the Novartis Animal Health deal that number will grow or get bigger as a result of that acquisition.
Dave? I think there's an earlier question on this as it relates to the sola interim review.
We do have a feature to potentially conduct such a thing.
But the primary -- there's many reasons why we would pull that trigger or not but the primary one relates to patient exposure versus the amount of time left in the study.
So you may recall an EXPEDITION 1 and 2 most of the drug impact appeared to occur after week 40.
And so what you want is enough patients with at least that exposure to conduct the appropriate statistical analysis.
On the other hand if the study enrolled very quickly it wouldn't be so wise to use alpha to take that look.
I think our current situation for -- as investors know is that the study's enrolling quite well.
And so we're not in a position to make a statement about whether we would conduct an interim review or not but those are the considerations we would weigh.
And some time next year we'll have something to say about that.
Great.
Thanks Dave.
Before we go to the next caller I'm sure that our Chief Accounting Officer Donald Zakrowski is listening so I do want to go ahead and just set expectations.
When we provide guidance on January 7 we will still have to make high-level assumptions about how we'll allocate purchase price and what the financial impact will be to both reported and non-GAAP results for 2015.
It'll be later in the year that we'll actually be able to finalize those numbers so you should expect that there could be some variance.
Hopefully it's not very large but some variance on specific line items or the amount of purchase price allocated to intangibles that are being amortized.
So again we'll do a great job I'm sure with our accounting group to get as close as we possibly can for our guidance but you may see some variability as we go through the year and finalize the accounting for the transaction.
We'll go to the line of Greg Gilbert with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I have a few.
First emerging markets growth was quite strong.
Is that based on early benefits from your new commercial model or are there other factors we should be aware of that might be shorter term in nature on the pipeline? How is the base inhibitor from AstraZeneca different from your prior experience and perhaps from Merck's approach? And lastly on your PCSK9 Jan you indicated you would assess to see whether it could be best-in-class.
Are you setting the bar that high because of the expense or could you shed some more light on what you think about your PCSK9 inhibitor base and what you've seen to date and what's sort of the go no go decision it will be based upon? Chito we'll have you take the first one on the emerging markets growth.
And then Jan if you'll the base and PCSK9.
And Dave if you have any comments to add to the PCSK9 feel free to do that as well.
Chito? Good to have the first question for the emerging markets for the year.
So delighted to have the question.
We're obviously thrilled to see the strong growth for the quarter and year-to-date.
Let me make sure everybody understands so that a part of that strong growth is driven by a tender that we won for Humulin in Brazil and a few one-time items with regards to China and our anti-infectives business.
The underlying business is growing at around 8% to 9% solid growth.
The key drivers again would be China really our diabetes business; strong growth in Latin America and pockets within the Middle East.
Our fastest growing product if you exclude Humulin because of the tender is actually Forteo which is growing at 24% 25% year-to-date.
We think there's a lot more opportunity there but so is Humalog.
So with the diabetes opportunity in China and emerging markets Humalog is growing over 20%.
I think it's early to say that the actual new commercial model is having an impact.
Clearly I'm seeing across all our affiliates that the move to nontraditional non-salesforce alternative channels is taking shape where we're seeing a significant growth in our interactions with customers using the digital channels which I think are from our perspective more effective and in fact more efficient.
Thank you.
Jan? Okay.
The base inhibitor from AstraZeneca is also an oral compound and it's a nonselective base 1 base 2 agent which is similar then to our previous agents and also the Merck inhibitor now in Phase III.
This agent has Phase I data showing a dramatic a beta [ph] lowering in cerebrospinal fluid which is a good indication there are no target engagement in the CNF.
But what we need now is longer exposure data in patients in Phase II before starting Phase III to exclude that we see similar effects as we had on the liver or potentially other side effects remembering that this class needs a strong safety component.
We are very encouraged by the data we have seen so far.
But again we need longer safety exposures before we can start Phase III.
In relation to PCSK9 I think we are all very enthusiastic about this class based on initial Phase III data from several competitors including some preliminary data on positive mace [ph] outcomes.
Therefore for us I think being behind we will have a very high hurdle on this agent looking at what is the LDL lowering efficacy how long is the duration of effect and what about injection convenience the volume and the regiment and so on.
And we have not yet made those evaluations.
We'll go to the line of John Boris with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question just has to do with your gross margin going forward.
On your insulin lines in particular there's some ongoing manufacturing changes that you're making to improve the efficiency of your production of your insulins.
When you benchmark ourselves against your competitors how much of an improvement do you think we might be able to see on the gross margin line from that and the timing of that as it filters through? Second question.
In autoimmune it would appear that you have a couple of assets there that could be ideally positioned to compete in somewhat highly competitive markets.
How should we be thinking about an autoimmune buildout and the implications of that for 2015? And then just the last question on Alimta.
Any update in Europe on either the German or the U.K.
appeals? So we'll cycle among the 3 business unit Presidents.
Enrique if you take the first question the gross margin for insulin; Dave for the commercial support for Autoimmune platform going forward; and then Sue if you'd like to handle the European situation for the Alimta challenges.
Enrique? So improving our gross margin for an insulin portfolio I think is critical to us.
We are in the process of executing our insulin technical agenda to be able to do that.
What we have shared in terms of the benefits and improvement is that we should start seeing some benefit but it's limited in '15 and more fully in 2016.
Over time because of learning curves and so forth we do expect this to be very significant and we have shared that our gross margin for insulin should improve by several percentage points over time.
So a very important initiative for us and also is one that gives us flexibility when we look at our facility as being able to produce different types of insulins.
So important initiative and we are very much on track to deliver what we've been expecting.
Dave? We're obviously very excited about our possibilities in autoimmune.
I would point out that each of the products have their own marketplace.
And so although they may fit into a therapeutic area that's quite broad we'll be competing against different products in each case.
We've announced in the quarter last quarter Ixekizumab's data and we're very pleased with the fact that it met all of the 10 points in a very strong way.
We are working extremely hard right now to get that submission to the FDA in the first half of 2015 and we're encouraged by the possibilities for the IL-17 class but also about the possibility for us to have a differentiated product within that class and really successfully be able to move patients to the possibility of complete clearance of plaque psoriasis which is -- or a significant portion of them which is what we understand patients want.
The buildout for that business is as I mentioned on a previous question not as significant in terms of people and organization but is significant in terms of the capabilities.
So the company is hiring from the outside we're building medical infrastructure patient support infrastructure as well as selling resource.
To do that we plan to be completely prepared to compete with the strongest players in the psoriasis sector at the time of launch.
Baricitinib we anticipate data soon.
And I think as Derica mentioned we will likely have a top line release on the first study over the next few months.
And this also will be in a very competitive space in RA.
We see baricitinib as a potentially disruptive technology in that space and one in which we could really change expectations for the treatment of RA for many patients.
We'll wait for the data of course which will further inform our strategy.
But we will also compete effectively in areas of medical sales and patient support across that product and plan to play to win in RA assuming the data supports a submission for baricitinib.
Thanks Dave.
Sue? With regards to the Alimta patent situation in Europe as a reminder the European patent office ruled in our favor in terms of validity and that is being appealed.
We still do not have a date for hearing with regards to that.
On the infringement the German case that was ruled for us is being appealed and a date has been set for March of next year.
And in the U.K.
where the English high court ruled against us and that covers France Italy and Spain that is also being appealed with a date set for March of next year.
We'll go to Steve Scala with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Lilly's 2014 guidance range implies Q4 EPS from down 8 to up 3.
Why are you still guiding to such a large range with only 9 weeks left in the year and why didn't you choose to tighten the range today? And the second question is on the base inhibitor.
There would seem to be 3 possible reasons why you did this deal with Astra.
The first is that you fear that Merck is too far ahead of your own preclinical candidate the second is that you see some weakness in the Merck agent or the third is that you need a base to combine with your other agents internally.
Any thoughts on which of those is most likely? We'll have Derica take your first question and then Dave if you want to take lead maybe on the base inhibitor question.
Jan feel free to chime in as well.
Derica? Steve we left the guidance range unchanged essentially to say that our business in totality and aggregate we see as being unchanged at this stage.
We did modify some of the line items.
As you saw we raised the bottom end of our R&amp;D we lowered the top end of SG&amp;A but in total we believe that our total OpEx will stay about in line with what we expected for the year.
And then likewise we're dealing with some of the top line headwinds as it relates to rate when you think about our outlook for the remainder of the year.
So overall we felt comfortable with the guidance range that we had.
There was nothing behind -- anything beyond that to read into it -- no change to our EPS guidance range.
Thanks Derica.
Dave? Steve to answer the question on the base deal we're very excited about the collaboration with Astra not only because we like the asset we like the space but also we get a very complementary type of alliance with Astra Zeneca on this.
You mentioned 3 reasons why we might be interested I think those are all good reasons there may be a few others.
This product is clearly ahead of our own internal efforts given the setback we had in 2013 on our own clinical stage program.
It is different in terms of the approach to base inhibition from a chemistry perspective so that's a good thing.
With Merck's program we of course watch that carefully.
We do think there's opportunity for differentiation and a best-in-class approach even if it's not first-in-class.
And as Jan mentioned previously we are excited by -- I would say we anticipate that combination therapy particularly anti-body small molecule combinations in the treatment of Alzheimer's will become the norm.
And so having all these -- as many of these mechanisms is possible is probably a good thing for combination studies and offering more value to our customers.
So amongst these 3 it's really all of the above Steve.
They're all good reasons to do this deal and we're excited by it.
We have an aggressive plan for development and we'll give you further updates into next year on that.
And just a final comment on tanezumab [ph] which as you probably know have genetic validation where people in Iceland and who have some mutation in this base cleavage cycle of APP actually are protected against dementia and live very long.
So I think that seems to be very attractive options they may make.
We'll go to Seamus Fernandez with Leerink.
Research Division</strong> So first Derica can you be a little bit more specific on the percent of the gross margin benefit from FX versus the plant shutdown delay? I presume that the plant shutdown delay would then kind of recur or be delayed into the -- 2015.
Just trying to get a sense of what the magnitude of that difference would be and if that would be a repeat delay or if it's something that you would expect then to kind of -- it's shifted to 2015 and then it's shifted again to 2016 so really there's just a benefit this year but we need to kind of anticipate a differential but not a double hit in 2015.
Second question.
In terms of your expectations for U.S.
coverage and access relative to Trulicity.
I was just hoping that you could give us a little bit of color on your hopes for overall access unrestricted access and Medicare coverage.
For Dave the key differentiating features of Xeljanz just versus Xeljanz with baricitinib that are hoped for in the product profile.
And then lastly for Susan maybe ramu approval.
It's possible that we could see second line lung approval in the fourth quarter this year.
How should we think about the pace of uptake the percentage of second line lung patients likely eligible for therapy and the duration of a real-world therapy in that context? I think I've got that down Seamus.
So we've got the percent gross margin benefit coming from FX versus the shutdown.
We'll have Derek obviously handle that one.
So then the U.S.
access outlook for Trulicity Enrique; Zelgan versus baricitinib profiles Dave; and then Sue the ramucirumab approvals some of your thoughts on the pace of uptake and the percent it'd be eligible in the second line.
Derica? Seamus in regards to our gross margin revised guidance for the remainder of the year what's -- the primary driver is the benefit or the FX benefit.
So we get a top line headwind but we get a tailwind in terms of the cost of sales impact when you include the FX impact on the inventories expected to be sold during that period.
As it relates to the shutdown it is a benefit in this year.
We do expect to be more on a normal cycle next year so this is we would view as a kind of a one-time movement.
So we wouldn't expect to see 2015 shutdowns being -- scheduled shutdowns being pushed out.
Thanks Derica.
Enrique? Seamus I wouldn't be able to give you what our access goals are for Trulicity but I will share once again that as we look at the diabetes space regardless of class as we -- and regardless of order what we basically see is that about in about 50% of the commercial space we are able to get access maybe with the higher co-pay but it is access.
And we believe that we can very much compete in that space and most companies can.
In about 25% of that space you have step edits.
In some cases in the GLP-1 class this is going to be a step edit over GLP-1.
So you have to be in a GLP-1 before you could maybe go on the new GLP-1 that is launching in this particular case Trulicity.
And in about 25% of the commercial markets there's really no coverage until basically the P&amp;T makes a formal decision to be able to do that.
On Medicare on Part D I think the situation is different because of the schedules.
And while we are working to try to get coverage some time in 2015 I think the discussions are typically around 2016 coverage for Part D and whether we can maybe accelerate that into 2015.
I have to say that we have been having discussions with payers around Trulicity and I do believe that we have a very strong value proposition and that's basically what our payors are sharing with us.
Thank you Enrique.
Dave? Thanks for the question.
Obviously the big caveat on all this is we need to see the Phase III data from our program and we're looking forward to that first study toplining here in the next several months.
Which as a reminder the TNF-IR study so these will be refractory patients to TNF therapy there's a complete program which also spans pre-biologic patients as well as a head-to-head against humira [ph] which is our structure study and it's fully powered for noninferiority.
So one feature that could be different from tofacitinib is the clinical program.
We built this program looking at our own Phase II data but also what they had conducted.
And we are optimistic that it will yield the kind of label should these studies demonstrate the effect that we saw in Phase II it will be very competitive in the RA market for us.
Of course also we have a difference.
Although they're both JAK inhibitors we have different receptor activity.
We are selective that JAK1/JAK2 pathway where tofacitinib is not it's a pan JAK inhibitor this may manifest in different side effects or effects.
And again the clinical program will have to bear that out.
Recall as well that we are very happy with our dose our ability to select the dose that yielded a very significant efficacy result that was published in our Phase II studies.
Really with the side effect profile that we think is quite appropriate for the RA patients and competitive with biologics yielding the possibility of an oral medicine with biologic-like efficacy.
And so head-to-head comparisons haven't been conducted but for instance if we look at our competition which is unable to gain EMA approval really based on lack of effect at the 5 milligram dose we think that could also be different.
Ultimately in this class for early uptake as well the overall safety profile emerging from the Phase III program will be essential to look at.
We don't have that data in front of us but have been conducting regular data monitoring committee meetings and have been pleased that there haven't been any changes made to the program.
So we'll wait for our data to come out.
The way we designed this was to have a differentiated profile and really be able to present to the market something that could change expectations for patients who suffer from RA.
Thanks Dave.
Sue? Seamus with regards to Cyramza clearly we're very happy to not only have a positive Phase III study with Cyramza in second line lung cancer but also get priority review.
So we are hoping that we'll get an action by the end of this year and be ready to launch next year.
Regarding uptake clearly I can't give you full details of that but I will say a few things.
Firstly this is the first agent to show a benefit in a broad patient subset both in the squamous and the non-squamous in second line setting.
And we have a good experience with thoracic oncology with Alimta in first line and this would now be in broad-based second line.
So we're excited by the opportunity that we've got with this agent in the second line setting and clearly our plan is to ensure that we have a successful launch.
We'll go to Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> John you've been quiet on this call I have a question for you.
On the last earnings call a lot of us asked you whether or not you're interested in a tax inversion deal and in hindsight very smartly you said you weren't.
And congratulations it's been a mess out there.
But I'm just curious what your Washington folks are telling you about prospects for corporate tax reform.
With the midterm election in a couple of weeks looks like prospects for Republicans to gain control of the Senate look pretty promising; who knows it's pretty close.
But just what -- how should we think about potential changes to tax reform which will even the playing field for U.S.
companies relative to foreign enterprises? Jami up to this point I've been delegating effectively here but you got me.
I think on tax reform obviously a lot depends on what happens in November and some of the subsequent dynamics and of course what else is happening in this crazy world we live in.
I think I can say and then our guys in Washington would say we're cautiously optimistic that the next 2 years will bring about some sort of meaningful tax reform.
I've never seen an issue where I go around and talk to people in both parties and everybody's in agreement that we've got a lousy system now that makes American companies less competitive.
People seem to agree on the fact that we need a lower rate and that a territorial system of some kind would make sense.
There's not unanimity on that but I think there's -- you get a fair degree of alignment.
And then we get into the details and that's where the devil is.
I mean some companies are capital-intensive some are R&amp;D-intensive.
Some have the bulk of their operations here some like Lilly are sort of equally divided between the U.S.
and o U.S.
So I don't think there's a necessarily easy answer even if we all agree that the status quo really doesn't represent sound policy and doesn't really put the U.S.
on the best possible footing to be competitive.
So we're going to keep pushing for it we're going to keep talking about it and as I say I think there -- I believe there is a window over the next 2 years and I think you're going to see a lot of companies not just Lilly really beating on this drum as well Jami.
We'll go to the line of Vamil Divan.
Research Division</strong> So just a couple more on the base inhibitor which we've discussed quite a bit already.
But one is just a very simple question.
I don't understand why you guys listed on Phase I on your slideshow and your pipeline I think was Slide 14 when there's already a Phase II/III study that's ongoing that you guys talked about at least the Phase II part has already started.
So just a simple question there.
And then my other question just related to that study.
I couldn't tell from reading the description if you guys are actually using your amyloid imaging agent to screen patients at least those who might have mild AD for entry in this study.
And if you could just clarify if you are or not? And if not why not? And then one other quick one if I could on the diabetes side with the basal insulin peglispro.
It's obviously the top line release you guys put out earlier but if you can just give us a sense at this point now that you've seen some of the Phase III data internally what group of patients do you think would be the best candidate for that drug? Especially given some of the side effects we're seeing there on the triglycerides and some of the changes in HDL and LDL.
I'll go ahead and take your first one the phase of development for the base inhibitor.
Dave if you'd like to take the second question on the trial itself; and then Enrique for basal insulin peglispro.
So I believe both AstraZeneca and Lilly follow a similar process for calling something a Phase II asset and that's when the first efficacy dose the first dose of the drug is actually administered to a patient.
We do expect that will happen in the near term.
Just recently that trial has started to screen patients.
Should they pass those screens and after a certain period they will receive their first dose.
So it should not be too long into the future you will see that formally change I think for both Astra and Lilly to show us a Phase II asset.
Dave? There are many design features in the Phase II/III program.
We've incorporated learnings from our past failures and observations and disease modification in Alzheimer's.
Among those include screening patients for the presence of amyloid plaque.
There are many other things and this is I think why the collaboration makes sense for AstraZeneca and us to harvest those learnings and build that into a base program and ultimately try to maximize the probability of success.
So yes we're conducting screenings on these patients.
Well when it comes to our basal insulin peglispro we have conducted our studies across type 1 and type 2 nice patients switching from glargine and also in combination with mealtime insulin and so forth.
And so we have a wide spectrum of studies.
I think consistently what we have seen is superiority when it comes to hemoglobin A1c.
And as you mentioned triglycerides we are encouraged.
I think when we look at some of the CV data in terms of -- and what we have shared so far is that we have already excluded -- when we look at our trials we have already excluded the 1.3 hazard ratio and that our observed hazard ratio when it comes to the CV event is basically below 1.
So we are pretty excited in terms of what this product would offer patients now.
Specifically to your question how does the benefit would vary across different patient types I think is a discussion that we can have when we basically disclose the detailed data at ADA.
As we're reaching the bottom of the hour if there are callers still in the queue the IR team will get back to you shortly.
For those of you who have additional questions do feel free to call us during the day.
We're happy to help with your questions.
John would you close the call please? Sure.
Thanks Phil.
To all those on the call we thank you for your continued interest in our company and for your support.
As we near the end of our journey through years YZ I'm extremely proud that we have executed on our strategy and delivered on the commitments we shared with you nearly 5 years ago.
We remain convinced that our strategy is the right one for Lilly in order to create value for patients physicians payors and our shareholders.
And our ability to execute so far gives us increasing confidence in our future prospects.
As always we will keep you apprised of our progress.
Thanks again everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 11:30 A.M.
Eastern time today through October 30 2014 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 337770.
International participants please dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Eli Lilly's and Company Q4 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Chairman President and CEO John Lechleiter.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you good morning everyone.
Thank you all for joining us to discuss Eli Lilly and Company's fourth quarter 2014 earnings.
I'm John Lechleiter Lilly's Chairman President and CEO.
Joining me on today's call are Derica Rice our Chief Financial Officer; Dr.
Jan Lundberg our President of Lilly Research Laboratories; Dr.
Sue Mahony President of Lilly Oncology; Enrique Conterno President of Lilly Diabetes; Dave Ricks President of Lilly Bio-Medicines; Chito Zulueta President of Emerging Markets; Jeff Simmons President of Elanco Animal Health; and Ilissa Rassner Brad Robling and Phil Johnson of the Investor Relations team.
During this conference call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on Slide 3 and those outlined in our latest forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
As usual I'll begin by highlighting key events that have occurred since last quarter's call.
Following FDA approval in September we launched Trulicity in the U.S.
during the fourth quarter.
We also received regulatory approval for Trulicity in Europe.
We’re in the process of launching in the U.K.
and Germany and anticipate launches in additional EU countries over the course of this year and next.
In diabetes we also resubmitted Humalog U-200 KwikPen in the U.S.
and along with Boehringer Ingelheim we received approval in Japan for both Jardiance and our insulin glargine product.
In oncology Cyramza was approved by the European commission for the treatment of advanced gastric cancer and by the FDA for two new indications second line non-small cell lung cancer and advanced gastric cancer in combination with paclitaxel.
Enabled by a fast track designation we also completed the rolling FDA submission for necitumumab in first-line squamous non-small cell lung cancer.
And we submitted necitumumab to European regulators for the same indication.
On the clinical front along with Incyte we announced that baricitinib met the primary end point of improved ACR20 response compared to placebo in the Phase 3 RA-BEACON study in patients with moderately-to-severely active rheumatoid arthritis who previously failed one or more TNF inhibitors.
The study included a high percentage of patients who would also receive prior treatment with one or several non anti TNF biologic agents.
Along with AstraZeneca we announced the initiation of the Phase 2/3 AMARANTH study of AZD3293 an oral BACE inhibitor being studied for Alzheimer's disease.
Earlier this month we presented Phase 3 data ASCO-GI from the RAISE trial evaluating Cyramza in combination with chemotherapy in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
In this trial Ramucirumab prolonged both progression free and overall survival.
And we began the second Phase 3 trial abemaciclib in breast cancer as well as a Phase 3 trial in lung cancer.
On the business development front we announced a pair of immuno-oncology collaborations.
One with Bristol-Myers Squibb to study their PD-1 inhibitor Opdivo with galunisertib our TGF-beta kinase inhibitor in a Phase 1/2 study in patients with glioblastoma hepatocellular and non-small cell lung cancers.
The other was Merck to study their PD-1 inhibitor Keytruda at a Phase 2 study with Alimta in non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer and in Phase 1/2 studies with Cyramza in gastric bladder and non-small cell lung cancer as well as with necitumumab in non-small cell long cancer.
We also announced a worldwide licensing collaboration with Adocia focused on developing an ultra-rapid insulin known as BioChaperone Lispro for the treatment of type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
Lilly and Boehringer Ingelheim announced changes to our diabetes collaboration; the companies will continue co-promotion work in 17 countries representing over 90% of the collaboration's anticipated market opportunity.
While in the other countries the companies will exclusively commercialize the molecules they brought to the collaboration.
And finally on January 1st we completed the acquisition of Novartis Animal Health.
In another news of note we increased our quarterly dividend by 2% to $0.50 per share and we repurchased $300 million of stock in the fourth quarter of 2014 under our outstanding $5 billion share repurchase programs leaving $3.7 billion remaining.
I would also highlight that the total cash distribution to shareholders in 2014 was nearly $3 billion.
Now I'll turn the call over to Phil for a discussion of our financial performance in the quarter.
Thanks John.
And Tom with AT&amp;T if you could check we should be the only line as open at this time we're getting quite a bit of feedback if you could sure that other lines are close we’ll appreciate it.
Thank you.
First I'll review our GAAP results and then I'll discuss a few non-GAAP measures to provide some additional insights into the underlying trends in our business.
Keep in mind that our 2014 non-GAAP measures include the expense associated with amortization of intangibles.
As discussed on our January 7th call our 2015 guidance however excludes this expense.
When we report Q1 2015 actual results in April we’ll provide you with 2014 by quarter restated for removal of amortization of intangibles and if we had acquired Novartis Animal Health on January 1 2014.
As we report our results during 2015 this should provide a meaningful view of the trends in our business.
On Slide 8 you can see the revenue in Q4 was $5.1 billion.
This represents a decrease of 12% compared to Q4 2013 driven by reduction of over $500 million in U.S.
Cymbalta and of nearly 200 million in U.S.
Evista.
Recall that we lost Evista facility for Cymbalta in December 2013 and Evista in March 2014.
Excluding Cymbalta and Evista in the U.S.
the rest of our worldwide revenue was essentially flat as underlying performance growth was offset by the stronger U.S.
dollar.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue decreased 60 basis points driven by the loss of U.S.
exclusivity for Cymbalta and Evista partially offset by the impact of foreign exchange rates on international inventory sold.
This quarter foreign exchange rates on international inventory sold had a positive impact on our gross margin.
However in Q4 of 2013 there was a negative impact on our gross margin.
Excluding this FX effect from both 2013 and 2014 gross margin as a percent of revenue declined from 77.0% in Q4 2013 to 73.9% in Q4 2014.
As in past quarters we've included a supplementary slide providing our gross margin percent for the last 10 quarters with and without this FX effect.
Non-GAAP measures are shown on Slide 9.
Total operating expense defined as the sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A declined by 13% or nearly $450 million compared to Q4 of 2013.
Marketing selling and administrative expenses declined 8% while R&amp;D declined 20%.
The reduction in marketing selling and administrative expenses was due primarily to reduction in sales and marketing activities for Cymbalta as well as ongoing cost containment efforts and to lesser extent foreign exchange.
The reduction in R&amp;D expense was driven by lower late stage clinical development costs.
Other income and expense was income of $45 million in Q4 2014 compared to income of $9 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
This increase was due to larger gains on investments.
Our tax rate was 14% a decrease of 6.5 percentage points compared to the same quarter last year.
This decrease includes recognition in the fourth quarter of 2014 of the full year U.S.
R&amp;D tax credit.
At the bottom line net income was flat while earnings per share increased 1% reflecting the benefit of share repurchases.
Turning to full year results shown on Slide 10 revenue decreased 15%.
Now to place this in perspective this equates to year-on-year reduction in revenue of $3.5 billion.
U.S.
Cymbalta and Evista decline by a total of $4.1 billion while FX reduced revenue by over $350 million.
These reductions were partially offset by performance growth in the rest of our business of nearly $1 billion or over 5% primarily by insulins our animal health business Cialis Alimta Forteo OUS Cymbalta Trajenta and Cyramza.
Full year revenue totaled just over $19.6 billion or about 400 million less than the minimum we targeted starting back in 2009.
Gross margin declined nearly four percentage points due to loss of U.S.
exclusivity for Cymbalta and to a lesser extent Evista.
And to reductions and spend behind Cymbalta and Evista lower late stage clinical development costs and significant ongoing productivity efforts total operating expenses decreased 11% or over $1.4 billion as R&amp;D expenses declined nearly 800 million and SG&amp;A expenses declined more than $600 million.
Finally looking at the bottom line despite 400 million less topline revenue than we targeted we nearly met our 3 million minimum net income goal posting non-GAAP net income of $2.988 billion and EPS of $2.78.
While not shown here when we issued our 10-K you’ll see that we also exceeded our goal of $4 billion in operating cash flow.
Our full year result reflects successful execution of our strategy for managing one of the industry's most challenging series of patent expirations.
Driving growth in Japan emerging markets and Elanco and in brands not losing patent protection.
Replenishing and advancing our pipeline and reducing our cost structure and increasing productivity across our business to fund the R&amp;D necessary to fuel our future growth.
Slide 11 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS.
Additional details about our reported earnings are available in today's earnings press release.
Let's take a look at the effective price rate and volume on revenue.
On Slide 12 in the yellow box on the middle of the page you can see the total revenue decline of 12% in Q4 2014 was driven by a negative volume impact of 9% and a negative foreign exchange impact of 4% partially offset by favorable price impact of 1%.
The negative foreign exchange impact is larger than we've seen in recent years and was driven by the strengthening of the US Dollar against many developed and emerging markets currencies.
By geography you will notice that U.S.
revenue decreased 22% driven by volume.
This was due to loss of exclusivity for Cymbalta and Evista.
Excluding Cymbalta and Evista EUS pharma revenue increased 5%.
I would note that this year we extended our shipping to wholesalers until December 30 resulting in lower wholesale inventory build this year end.
In Australia Canada and Europe or ACE you will see a negative 7% rate impact drove the overall 4% decline in revenue.
While on a constant currency or performance basis ACE revenue increased 3%.
In Japan pharma revenue decreased 10% driven by the weaker Yen.
On a performance basis our Japanese pharma revenue increased 2%.
Growth this quarter was negatively affected by the timing of Cymbalta shipments to our marketing partner Shinogi as well as by volatility we have seen in customer purchases over the course of 2014 due to increases in the consumption tax.
Turning to emerging markets we saw mid-single-digit performance growth driven by volume growth of 7%.
As a result of the significant negative effect of FX our reported emerging markets revenue declined 3% versus last year.
Elanco Animal Health delivered revenue growth of 9%.
Excluding FX Elanco grew 12%.
This performance growth was driven by OUS animal products including the acquisition of Lohmann as well as OUS companion animal products and US food animal products.
This was partially offset by a continued decline in the US companion animal product sales principally Comfortis.
Moving to Slide 13 you will see the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on our 2014 results.
For the four year 2014 FX had a modest negative effect at both the top and bottom line.
For the quarter however we saw a larger effect and one that differed at the top and bottom lines.
As I mentioned earlier FX was a topline headwind reducing revenue in US Dollars by four percentage points.
In terms of cost of good sold FX provided a substantial benefit which led FX providing a modest tailwind benefit for operating income and EPS.
Excluding FX you can see that our non-GAAP EPS in fourth quarter declined 4% while including FX EPS grew 1%.
Now let me turn the call over to Derica.
Thanks Phil.
Slide 14 shows our pipeline as of January 23.
Changes since our last earnings call are highlighted with green arrow showing progression and red arrow showing attrition.
You will see that necitumumab has moved into the regulatory review column following submissions in the U.S.
and Europe.
And as John mentioned Phase 2 testing began for AZD3293 the base inhibitor for Alzheimer's disease that we are developing with AstraZeneca.
And in Phase 1 we initiate human testing of a small molecule base inhibitor for Alzheimer's disease.
We also began Phase 1 testing of two biologics one for diabetic complications and one for hypoglycemia.
And we terminated development of a Phase 1 biologic for anemia.
Next let me provide a recap of how key event played out in 2014.
I'll remind you of our key events for 2015 and quickly review our 2015 financial guidance.
Slide 15 is the slide we provided you in January of last year to track our progress against these milestones.
As you can see from the preponderance of green check marks we made significant advances in our pipeline in 2014.
These advances included major progress on eight new molecular entities.
Approval and launch of three new products Cyramza Jardiance and Trulicity approval of our insulin glargine product submission of necitumumab and positive Phase 3 trial readouts for Basal insulin peglispro for diabetes Ixekizumab for psoriasis and baricitinib for rheumatoid arthritis.
2014 was a very productive year for advancement of our pipeline and we expect 2015 to provide more of the same.
On Slide 16 list keep events to watch for in 2015.
And we will update this list on each of our quarterly calls to help you monitor our progress.
Since I've discussed this with a detail on our January 7th call I will not go through each item again today.
However it’s clear from this list of key event that 2015 will be another important year for execution of our innovation based strategy and we are excited for what we believe the year may bring.
We know it's unreasonable to expect all of these potential events to be positive.
However we believe it’s very possible that a significant majority will break our way and solidify our near to medium term growth prospects.
Turning to our 2015 guidance we have updated the guidance we provided on January 7th to reflect current FX rates.
That is the only item prompting these changes.
Now before I step through this specific line item changes I would like to provide some high level thought on the impact to us both this year and moving forward.
On our call in early January we provided a full P&amp;L impact of FX to our 2015 results.
Now this included a topline revenue headwind of about 2.5% or $500 million and a bottom line EPS headwind of about $0.03.
At the current FX rate the revenue headwind for 2015 will be more like 6% to 7% and the EPS headwind would be about $0.07 per share not the $0.03 we shared earlier this month.
Now as we discussed before the FX effect on international inventory sold that flows through cost of sales provides a short term offset to the underlying operational impact of FX.
The $0.07 EPS headwind I mentioned is in fact comprise of an unfavorable operational FX effect of about $0.57 largely offset by favorable FX effect on international inventory sold of about $0.50.
Should FX rate remain stable this cost of sales benefit would go away as we sell the existing inventory will likely be nil in 2016.
So we do experience the same the exact same operational FX effect throughout our P&amp;L as some of our peers and other U.S.
multi nationals.
Difference in some however the FX effect on cost of sales means that the full effect of FX does not show up immediately in on our P&amp;L.
We will see part of it this year and the remainder next year.
Now turning to the individual line items you can see on Slide 17 the FX has caused us to reduce revenue by $800 million increase our gross margin percent by 1.5 percentage points reduce marketing selling and administrative expenses by about $200 million and reduce research and development expenses by $100 million.
As I mentioned earlier if current FX rates hold for the full year EPS would be reduced by about $0.04 per share from our prior assumptions and we have adjusted our outlook accordingly.
However as our outlook still falls within our existing GAAP and non-GAAP EPS ranges these ranges and guidance remain unchanged.
Hopefully this additional color is helpful as you think about how FX may affect our result.
Also keep in mind that our 2015 GAAP guidance does not include the $200 million payment that we will make to Pfizer if the FDA removes tanezumab from partial clinical hold and we move forward with the Phase 3 development.
And it is based on our current estimate for how we'll account for the Novartis Animal Health acquisition and which could change based upon revise estimates and final accounting treatment.
And as I mentioned earlier 2015 guidance for non-GAAP measures excludes amortization of intangibles as well as the other items listed on Slide 24.
In summary we enter 2015 having successfully navigated through the most significant period of patent expiration in our history.
Over the past five years we delivered on our financial commitment we advanced our pipeline and what we build what we believe is a sustainable R&amp;D engine.
Again in 2014 we made excellent progress implementing our innovation based strategy.
Not only did we advance our pipeline but we also significantly reduced costs and increased productivity.
Throughout the balance of this decade we aim to drive revenue growth and expand margins.
Bolstered by the recent acquisition of Novartis Animal Health we have a solid base business and we intend to build on that base with a first wave of new product launches in diabetes oncology and immunology followed by second wave of potential launches in cardiovascular disease Alzheimer's disease pain and oncology.
And as John mentioned on our 2015 guidance call going forward you will see us sharpen our focus on areas where we are best positioned to compete and win.
And continue to look for ways to increase productivity and do the work of pharmaceutical R&amp;D better.
We enter this post-patent period in a position of strength and we are very optimistic about the opportunity before us to improve patient's lives and create value for shareholders.
Now this concludes our prepared remarks.
Now I will turn the call over to Phil to moderate the Q&amp;A session.
Thanks Derica.
Given the 90 minutes we allot for the overall call and the relatively brief prepared remarks we do have quite a bit of time for Q&amp;A but it would be great and appreciated if you limit your questions to two or three.
If you have additional ones feel free to rejoin the queue later.
Tom if you could provide the instructions for the Q&amp;A caller please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of David Risinger with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thanks very much.
So I have three questions.
First with respect to the sola extension study data readout ahead could you just please characterize that? And discuss your level of enthusiasm for that data? Second with respect to tanezumab you were expecting to restart Phase 3 this year.
Should we expect a readout in 2016 or 2017 from that? And then finally Derica it would be great if you could just explain once again -- and I know you have before -- but why your FX tends to lag peers? And just in terms of the accounting whether there is an international cost of goods accounting difference? That would be helpful in just putting it in perspective.
Thank you.
Great Dave.
Thank you for the questions.
We'll have Dave Ricks President of Lilly Bio-Medicines handle the first two on solanezumab and tanezumab and Derica obviously be FX question.
Dave? Hi Dave.
Thanks for the question.
On the solanezumab extension just a remainder we have a 24-month period where we are measuring patient's who all rolled off expedition one and two into drug treatment at their choice of course.
In that data we do expect to come out in the near future because it's not published or announced I can't really elaborate on what's inside that but again we are looking for evidence of a disease modifying effect in that patients who were started on sola coming off placebo.
Don't catch up to those that had sola all along.
And so with that sort of guidance of what we are looking for we wait for the data to be published in the future.
On tanezumab we are hoping to have the class and tanezumab remove from clinical trial hold this year and initiate Phase 3 studies as Derica mentioned.
We have not posted those studies or their design yet so it would be premature to comment on when they'd be completing read out but I would guide you to say it's probably beyond 16 Dave.
And David as regards to the FX effect on international inventory sold recall that our inventory turns in Lilly is about 12 months.
And so if you take back as we build the inventory during the period where the dollar was at a weaker level or the euro and the yen was at a higher level those inventories went on our balance sheet as we sell those inventories into the marketplace.
Those inventories get revalued at current exchange rate and that benefit or that differential flows through P&amp;L at that point in time.
So in the case scenario we're looking at today where the dollars has been strengthening it comes to us as a benefit.
You've seen in prior periods when the rate was going the other way when foreign currencies were strengthening against the US dollars and you were seeing a negative effect or an unfavorable effect flowing through our P&amp;L through cost of goods sold.
Thanks Derica.
Tom next caller please.
Our next question is from the line of Greg Gilbert with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
First on Trulicity you have been very bullish on the opportunity in the past given the ideal mix of attributes.
So I was hoping you could give us some early metrics on launch success beyond the simple IMS-type of data we all see.
And then secondly for John what are senior management team's and your most important corporate objectives in 2015? Aside from the typical meeting or exceeding of the financial metrics you have provided? Thanks.
Thanks Greg.
Enrique for the first question please.
On Trulicity we have to keep in mind that in mid-November we launched this product in the U.S.
to specialist specialist roughly represent about 30% of the market opportunity.
We are in the process of launching as we speak in primary care right now and as I have shared in the past for us it is critical that we basically expand the GLP 1 market.
We believe that Trulicity can be an important catalyst for the overall growth of the GLP 1 class.
So we basically have to wait for that.
In terms of metric that we actually look at specific to our near medium and long term objectives are looking at the breadth of prescribing when we look at Trulicity.
So we want to make sure that there is a strong breadth of prescribing in particular among primarily care customers.
Greg hi this is John.
Thanks for your question.
I think I would say three things in terms of what we’ve thought the senior management team has talked about around the table.
Number one is to launch well - we’ve launched three products last year Cyramza Jardiance and Trulicity.
We have within 12 month window an opportunity to launch others potential our insulin glargine product necitumumab.
We have other filings in the work.
So this is – we're exercising that launch muscle now and I think that's something we’re acutely focused on.
Secondly to renew our pipeline we've paid particular attention to putting the company in the position where we do not have to go through the boom and bust cycle that's characterize the last 10 years.
We're very focused on our Phase 1 molecule enteries on progression from Phase 2 to Phase 3 and ensuring that those molecules are high quality and substantially derisk by the time we get to Phase 3.
And finally I would say improving productivity.
We work and operate a very competitive world.
We're in growing but very competitive classes and I think learning to operate across our business and ways that respond to the increased demands of our customer and the competitive pressures is something that's on our desk everyday and we're driving with the new conviction.
Great.
Thank you.
Tom next caller please.
Our next question is from the line of Tim Anderson with Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
A few questions please.
You have several drugs for diabetes either in the pipeline or that have recently been approved.
This includes your new GLP 1 your insulin glargine your novel basal and empagliflozin and then various iterations of those products.
Of the four that I have just listed which one product excites you the most in terms of the future commercial potential let's say five years out? And then a second question.
I would love to hear how you think the commercial rollout of your version of insulin glargine will play out both in Europe and the US? Ignoring any of the legal challenges that are being mounted against you.
I know you can't really comment on price specifically but can you confirm that generally speaking price is really the only selling point with a product like this? And therefore you will likely price it at whatever it takes to compel payers and prescribers to get on board? And then last third question is just on Alimta.
You mentioned price erosion in the US.
It's not clear to me what the driver of that erosion would be? Tim thank you for the questions Enrique can turn for the diabetes will have you handle the first two of the diabetes pipeline assets and insulin glargine and either Sue if you want to look at the U.S.
performance and see what explanation you have for his question on Alimta U.S.
piece.
Enrique? Tim I really believe that I can make a strong case for each one of these products that you have mentioned.
We just discussed Trulicity when Greg asked the question about let's look at Jardiance for a second.
We have the EMPA/LINA fixed dose combination coming up.
We have a cardiovascular study that we've going to reel out in the middle of the year.
Those two are very significant events when we look at the brand.
I'll comment on insulin glargine in just a second and then of course we do believe that with our innovative basal insulin peglispro we've been able to show reductions in hemoglobin A1c versus the standard of care in basal insulin therapy which is something that has not been shown before.
So I can make very good case for each of these products.
We have to basically launch this product and see how they are accepted by our customers.
When it comes to insulin glargine I would say that it priced the only way to compete I would say no.
And I won’t share how we intend to compete when it comes to our commercial rollout but clearly we do have a portfolio of diabetes solutions.
We know that diabetes price does play a role we have the liver devices and we think that we will be able to offer our customers an important alternative when it comes to glargine with our own insulin glargine product.
And then Tim on the Alimta U.S.
question we had a very similar very low single digit less price benefit in the quarter like we had in the prior quarters.
On various quarters there will be adjustments made for the accruals for rebase and discounts.
There is variability and noise in those kinds of adjustments this particular quarter this happens to be negative adjustments relative to Q4 2013 but there's nothing unusual on the underlying trends that we're seeing what we would have in past quarters.
Tom next caller please.
Our next question is from the line of Mark Schoenebaum with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
This is Salim in for Mark.
Thanks for all color.
Three questions.
One on your CETP.
Can you just tell us exactly how we should expect disclosure this year? And if you can just confirm for us that it's just a futility analysis? So the trial cannot be stopped for efficacy? And then just on diabetes and with all the pricing pressure talks can you remind us of the net price increases you have been taking? Maybe for 2014 and recently? And if you think that's sustainable going forward? And then on your GLP 1 Dulaglutide is there -- is -- Novartis obviously made theirs -- at least are trying to develop their in Phase 3 for an oral.
Their [sinagatide] [ph] is an oral sinagatide.
Is there a reason why you would or should not do the same thing for Dulaglutide? Thanks.
Thank you for the questions.
We’ll have Dave Rick handle the first question on CETP inhibitor and then Enrique your diabetes question.
Dave? Thanks for your question.
On Evacetrapib I think we’ve communicated in the past we do have an event driven futility test which is in the near future either be in Q1 or early Q2.
I want to play down expectations of any great news coming out of that because the futility hurdle is pretty low in that test.
So we will be conducting this in a blinded fashion along with a normal periodic safety review.
And this is really the last major set of reviews prior to conclusion of the study we hope in early 2016.
So when we have to something to say about that we can elaborate further.
Yes we’ve said in the past that’s not the kind of analysis being a futility analysis that would cause us if it is not met in other words study continues any kind of press release.
So we provide regular updates for example on next quarter's call if it's appropriate on the status of that particular analysis.
I assume your questions on the least price increases and net prices refers to our insulin franchise.
We have taken least price increases but we also have increased our rebates that we basically - in how we control with the pairs.
As we look at the results for Humalog in the U.S.
where we basically saw a minus 2 comparing Q4 of 2014 versus Q4 of 2013.
A couple of things that I would have you keep in mind yes of course we did have pressure from managed care contracts.
But we had two special events in fact in those results.
We had wholesale buying patterns nine points when it comes to Humalog or 9%.
And then adjustments due to prior periods primarily driven by greater utilization in Medicaid and Medicare about seven points.
So you can think of those anomalies for the quarter but clearly we do see a highly competitive market when it comes to diabetes.
On your question on GLP-1s whether we are thinking about oral dulaglutide I cannot comment on our specific class when it comes to GLP-1 but we have expressed that this is an area of interest to us.
Great.
Thanks Enrique.
Tom next caller please.
Next question is from the line of Tony Butler with Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you very much for taking the questions.
There are two.
First is on Cyramza.
I am curious if you might be able to provide some color of what you are hearing back in the field in gastric cancer.
And second to that question is have you launched in non-small cell lung given the recent approval? And if you have any comments back from the field on that launch would be helpful.
And then second back to solanezumab and EXPEDITION 3 clinic trials [ph] states enrollment continues and I am just curious on the rate of enrollment? Given I think the total number is 2 100 or so.
So the question is is that rate going -- or occurring in a timely fashion to what you would have expected given that you are looking for individuals who have a positive plaque in the brain? Thanks very much.
Thank you Tony.
So Sue Mahony President of Lilly Oncoloy for the first question on Cyramza and then Dave again on solanezumab.
Regarding Cyramza in the U.S.
we’re hearing actually very good feedback on Cyramza in gastric cancer.
Q4 sales of Cyramza was $34 million that really is on gastric cancer sales and given that we only had the combination approval towards the end of the year that really is mainly monotherapy.
Since these launched to combination study we’re seeing additional use of Cyramza in second-line gastric cancer with paclitaxel.
We have NCCN category 1 status now both for the monotherapy and for the combination therapy in gastric cancer.
And with regards to the lung indication we had the privilege at the end of the last year we literally just launched that so it's way too early to give you impact on that.
But as I mentioned we're feeling very good about the gastric updates.
On sola we remain very encouraged by the enrollment in Expedition-3.
I really think Lilly has a best in the industry capability on conducting late phase Alzheimer's studies.
And as you pointed out we're through in significant complexity which is the requirement to prove positive amyloid to enter the study in a 100% of patients.
But I’m pleased to say I think our last update was we were two-thirds enrolled we continue to progress to complete enrollment soon.
I can't say we will mostly likely beat the enrollment window we saw on Expedition 1 and 2 which was a similar number of patients as reminded that was 22 months.
So we would expect the enrollment soon and then of course look for read out in 2016 as we've discussed previously.
Thanks Dave.
Tom next caller please.
Our next question is from the line of John Boris with SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the questions.
First question just has to do with your operating margins.
Obviously exiting the period of YZ your operating margins are in the high teens.
If you look across the businesses where you are having greatest amount of launches -- oncology diabetes -- and you benchmark those businesses against your industry peers the operating margins of some of those companies are in the high 30s.
So when you think about operating margin expansion going forward can you maybe help us understand or characterize how those businesses are potentially going to be contributing to that? And any color on the magnitude of expansion would be helpful.
Second question on Alimta Germany/UK.
Any update on the patent challenge that's going on there? And then lastly just on the BioChaperone insulin lispro if you can possibly characterize the profile of that product? What phase of development and when you anticipate it might go into clinical? And how it might contrast with the insulin oligo that is being worked on by one of your peers? Thanks.
Thank you John.
So Derica obviously for your first question the operating margins and then Sue if you comment on the European patent litigation and then Enrique if you will take BioChaperone and Lispro and Jan if you can contribute if you like as well.
Derica? As you know we stated that we expect to get our OpEx as combination of SG&amp;A and R&amp;D as a percent of sales back to that 50% of sales or less by 2018 on a full year basis.
While I'm not in a position here on the call to break out the operating margin by business unit let me just share with you some color as to how we see ourselves improving our margin overtime and provide some examples.
So one of things we’ve talked about is we’re launching in the area of oncology obviously highly specialized we believe we have the commercial footprint in place so even if Sue is launching new product and new indications we believe we can accommodate that within our existing footprint.
Likewise the same is true in diabetes as well where while we may be tweaking around the edges there are not any wholesale changes in our commercial footprint and from a sales force standpoint clearly there is the variable marketing spend behind these brands.
And then if you look on the manufacturing side we see ourselves opportunity as we continue to execute and complete the tactical agenda in our insulin business.
And from a manufacturing standpoint which enables us to be able to produce the basal insulins that we’re launching in the same facilities today where we produced our existing insulins in terms of Humulin and Humalog.
So therefore we’re getting a more throughput through the same existing manufacturing footprints which should bring down our per unit cost flowing through those facilities.
So these are some examples of how we believe we will be able to get increased leverage out of our existing infrastructure which will enable us to grow our OpEx at a slower rate and our cost base at our topline and giving us that positive leverage to return to the historical levels of profitability.
I actually don't have any update on the European patent situation the two case is the German and the U.S.
case as you know are both being appealed the hearing for both of those is set for March.
So we look to forward being able to provide data on that following those hearings.
It is requested the Germany and the U.K.
case not U.S.
case in March.
Yeah thank you.
On BioChaperone this product is already in the clinic.
We do have some Phase 1 data and the reason we did a partnership is as we looked both our internal problems as well as what was out there we felt this was the most compelling assets when we looked at the profile.
We are looking for something that is factor-on and factor-off with the benefit that could basically bring including lower rates of hypoglycemia and lower variability when it comes to overall blood glucose.
Thank you Enrique.
Tom we can go to the next caller please.
Our next question is from the line of Steve Scala with Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I have three questions.
First on the evacetrapib interim look on the Q3 call I believe the Company said that there are efficacy features to the interim look.
Can you give us examples of efficacy features? Are you just looking at HDL and LDL levels? Or are you also looking at trends and efficacy or events? Secondly in the PD-1 arena I am curious as to why Lilly selected the Bristol PD1 for one study and the Merck PD-1 for three others? Do you see clinical differences in the PD-1's you seek to accentuate? Or was it for financial or competitive reasons? And then lastly a question for Jeff.
There are many emerging modalities in Animal Health.
We recently saw approval of the first monoclonal antibody for cancer.
As a leader in Animal Health what emerging modalities does Lilly Animal Health find most interesting? Thank you.
Thank you for the questions.
Dave Evacetrapib please and then Sue for the PD-1 question on the Bristol and Merck collaborations.
And then Jeff for the animal health question.
Dave? On Evacetrapib we do expect an event driven interim look soon this is for futility.
As I said before the bar from an efficacy perspective is low really ruling out absolute futility and we will look at major cardiovascular events in that look.
But I think we've said before don't expect a major press release on both sides of that of course if we stop to study for futility we would announce that.
With regards the trials I wouldn’t lead anything into the number of charts that we got with each company.
Basically the decision was made based on the interest of each company at that point in time.
We foresee that we’ll continue to have ongoing collaborations in the future with other companies.
Again it will depend on our interest and their interest.
Great question I think in Elanco we see a few very key spaces going forward in the medium and long term future.
Continued animal disease continues to be a problem both at the respiratory and enteric levels so that covers a couple key classes that we're worried about.
So Bovine respiratory disease continues to be a big challenge.
So that’s one space.
Second is mastitis continues to be one of the most unmet needs in dairy at this stage and we’re expecting to make a nice innovation launch in that space in the U.S.
this year.
And then I think the whole area of immune modulation turning the animals immune system and activating it against the disease versus today when you look at current medications antibiotics et cetera it's trying to introduce immune modulation.
And I think the last one in the pet space is renal failure.
It's continuing to be major issue especially the fee line area.
So those are some of the big spaces.
Pain would be another one as well.
Great.
Thanks Jeff.
Tom next caller please.
Our next question is from the line of Seamus Fernandez with Leerink Partners.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much for the questions.
So a few here.
First off can you talk a little bit about the BioChaperone and really what needs to be proven to advance this program into Phase 3? The second question can you also update us on what you are seeing globally in the premix market? How market share is evolving here? And what you seem from a demand perspective for a once-daily premix product? And then lastly on the CETP inhibitor have you evaluated the LDLC reduction using Merck's -- or Merck has published which is this beta quantitation method.
And if so what did you see in terms of the LDL reduction capabilities? And if you haven't done that could you just give us what your estimate is of LDL reduction on top of statins with the 130 milligram dose that's used in the Phase 3 outcome study? Thanks a lot.
Thanks Seamus.
So Enrique again on BioChaperone and as well as the premix question with regard what you’re seeing for share market as well as just demand for once daily premix outside of the U.S.
it sounds like.
And then back to Dave on the CETP inhibitor.
Enrique? I won't be able to - Seamus unfortunately discuss the program that we have for BioChaperone.
What you should expect is that we need to make sure that this product is going to be effective in both type 1 and type 2 diabetes and we intend to conduct the right clinical studies to ensure that we can have a thoughtful Phase 3 commercial decision.
As I mentioned clearly we already have mealtime insulins in the market so we need to show some benefits when it comes to differentiation vis-à-vis what’s already marketed but won’t be able to comment on that because we believe its important competitive information.
On the premix market clearly the premix market has been in many areas of the world declining with exception of emerging markets where we see continued growth of this category.
When we look at the share performance Lilly has done fairly well.
So we are gaining share in this market whether it’s in U.S.
whether it’s Europe Japan or emerging markets.
And I'm not sure how to comment on whether once daily premix would be a strong benefit.
We will have to see what the clinical data for that is.
If I'm speculating about what you're talking about right a premix needs to provide I believe noninferior control to whatever the standard treatment is when it comes to diabetes.
And this particular premix that I think you are talking about may -- did not meet the primarily endpoints when it comes to hemoglobin A1c control vis-à-vis basal-bolus therapy.
So clearly all is going to depend on the actual clinical data.
Was there the CETP question? Okay.
Yeah sure.
Sorry.
The gap there.
I thought there was another question between it.
Seamus thanks for the question on CTP.
I think a couple points of clarification.
All along we've been quoting LBO reduction numbers for our program using these so called direct measurement methods.
I'm not actually familiar with the statement you made about Merck's method but we use this direct method which is the more accurate way and our numbers are made consistent throughout.
Perhaps with our program the confusion has been we reformulated as we went to Phase 3.
We had tested 100 and 500 in Phase 2.
And the formulation of 130 that you mentioned is more bio-available than the 130 equivalents in the Phase 2 study if that make sense.
So we would expect the LDL reductions between the one and the 500 that were previously published.
And that puts you somewhere in the 30s in terms of percentage reduction using the direct LDL measurement.
Great.
Thanks Dave.
Tom next caller please.
Our next question is from the line of Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
It's Jay Olson in for Jami Rubin.
Thank you for taking the question.
Actually just a couple questions on animal health.
Can you please tell us what Elanco's EBIT margins were in 2014? And then when the Novartis Animal Health deal was announced you guided to a dilutive impact on 2015 earnings followed by accretion in 2016 with some cost synergies and mid 20% EBIT margins.
Can you just update us on whether all of your targets are still on track? And then finally are you now that the Novartis Animal Health deal is closed are you comfortable with the size of Elanco? Or do you anticipate additional business development? And if so would it be in the companion animal arena or in livestock? Thank you.
Great Jay.
Thank you for the questions.
Those were all for Jeff.
Feel free and then if you want a comment at all Derica on the accretion dilution as well.
Sure.
I'll take the first one.
For 2014 it was around 24% was the EBIT margin.
And then in regards to just to clarify when we announced the deal we did say it would be dilutive in 2015.
And we said that we expect by 2017 to return the combined entity to the historical levels of profitability which was in the mid-20s in terms of margins.
Right.
Yeah.
And just to build on that I think when you look at the Novartis we feel good.
It's better than expected in a couple of areas.
Again we're just a few days in but close timing was better than expected and also the required divestitures really only meaning to sell one brand in the U.S.
and all the other areas where we're clear on.
So at this stage we've only got limited detail on moving forward being we're just a month in and we'll definitely give a better view more clear detail in Q2 Q3.
Great.
Thanks Jeff.
About business development? About the business development and priorities.
Yeah.
We're going to continue from business development perspective.
I mean we feel very good about scale and share our voice being able to -- and Novartis we see as vehicles for the next year of growth.
And they've increased our portfolio our pipeline and our share of voice.
We're seeing that already in the early planning of both of these integrations which are working very well.
I think we're going to look now very much as we have in the past with other acquisitions is where the strategic areas of need are.
So vaccinations in that space emerging markets in comp animals will continue to be targets and we'll probably be more regional than global in nature.
Great.
Thanks Jeff.
Tom next caller please.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Schott with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
This is actually Wendy Lin on for Chris Schott today.
I have two questions on Alzheimer's.
It's on the N3PG path-specific antibody.
Can you talk about the time lines and the next steps in here? And then on the base inhibitor can you talk about your study design? How do you see that molecule comparing with Merck's? And when could you move it into Phase 3? Thank you.
Great.
Thanks for the questions.
Jan if you'd like to lead off with commentary on the N3pG monoclonal antibody.
And then Dave if you'd like to provide the thoughts on the base study design? Jan? Okay.
So the N3pG antibody is a plaque-specific antibody.
And it's in Phase 1 studies although it's actually done in patients with mild cognitive impairment or mild or moderate Alzheimer's.
The purpose of that study is actually to look at safety and have some pharmacodynamic markets so effects primarily looking at imaging before and after treatment.
And the planned completion of the trials are then second half this year.
Great.
Thank you Dave.
As it relates to the base program in alliance with AstraZeneca we've announced to begun Phase 2/3 program.
So one feature of this is it say Phase 2 program to confirm dose and safety which will then convert into a Phase 3 perhaps toward the end of this year early next year depending on enrollment.
I think the two key things.
We don't have any comparative data with Merck's base inhibitor.
Two key things I mentioned in terms of the study itself and then one operationally.
We will be positively screening for amyloid as with the sola EXPEDITION 3 study in this program as well.
So the 100% of the patients in the study have confirmed Alzheimer's and we know that’s an issue from other experiences in this field.
And then our study is a mild Alzheimer's disease study.
And I believe Merck has a mild moderate plus a prodromal so different population mixes.
We also have different endpoints we're looking at.
We favor the activities daily living and cognitive ADAS-Cog measurement points; I mean Merck's looking at different points as well.
So there are differences.
We'll have to see how it plays out.
I would say operationally for the previous comment on sola we feel good about our team's ability to enroll patients in these types of studies.
And of course there is a race to get a drug to patient suffering from the illness.
So we're very focused on timelines and feel confident in our ability to execute.
Great.
Thanks Dave.
Tom if we can go to the next caller please.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of Vamil Divan with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
This is Ari Jahja in for Vamil Divan.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I have three questions here.
First on gross margin guidance can you please clarify to what extent the upward revision is impacted by inventory step-up and amortization related to the Novartis Animal Health deal? Second on pharma net pricing.
Can you share your thoughts on key headwinds and tailwinds in different regions? It is interesting that emerging markets is the only part delivering positive net effect last year.
And then lastly for Enrique pertaining to the new insulin glargine product can you talk about Lilly's preparedness ahead of the launch this year? Thank you.
Thanks Ari Jahja.
And was your second question on animal health pricing or just pharma pricing? I'm sorry.
Pharma.
Okay.
So Derica do you want to comment on the gross margin piece to start with? Sure.
In regards to the gross margin change in our guidance it only relates to FX.
So this is not driven by the step up of inventory for the Novartis Animal Health acquisition.
In fact that was included in our regional guidance that we shared on our January 7th call.
So the 78% gross margin projection today is solely due to the change in outlook in terms of the effect on inventories expected to be sold through the period.
Dave you want to comment on other part? Yeah.
Let me maybe just jump in on the -- you're commenting on the 2014 effect of price rate and volumes are we show here in the U.S.
being down one on the year perhaps that’s a surprise.
Remembering Japan had 2014 was the biannual price year so we expected and planned for price pressure there.
ACE I think we are macroeconomic pressure in our business along with the plan for generic event of Cymbalta which lead into this year.
The U.S.
is down primarily driven to the AG offers generic business transactions we conducted on both Evista and Cymbalta which had an effect on our price per unit in a significant way during the year.
So I think that's more or less a one-time event for the U.S.
market.
Great.
And I apologize.
I missed your last question.
Insulin glargine readiness.
Okay Enrique great.
Thank you.
Got it.
I'm not sure.
What I can say other than we are ready.
Clearly we expect to launch in Europe this year post the expiration of the license patent.
Excellent.
Thank you Enrique.
Tom next caller please.
And we have a follow-up question from Seamus Fernandez with Leerink Partners.
Please go ahead.
Thanks a lot for the questions.
So just two things.
One -- I don't know if I missed the answer to this question -- but pricing on the animal health side of the business? What was the driver there? And is that something that -- where we could see that kind of pricing power going forward? And then separately as you look at the choice to enroll Amyvid-only patients do you have internal data suggesting that the Amyvid staining or the Amyvid biomarker-positive patient population in the EXPEDITION studies actually did have a wider magnitude of benefit? And suggesting that there could be greater power in EXPEDITION 3? Thanks.
Great.
Thanks Seamus.
So Jeff for the animal health pricing question and then back to Dave on solanezumab.
Yeah.
So on pricing and animal health Seamus a couple of comments.
First of all we have a very market-based pricing especially on the food animal side.
So as you’ve see economics get better in the meat and milk's business and our return and our value preposition changes we base a lot of our pricing model of on that.
Second is we have taken a very global assessment of these markets and the value aspects of this and have taken a global pricing approach that I think has also benefited.
And then I think lastly on pricing its liking to our value base strategy.
As you know we bought an analytics company and we're offering a broader set of solutions.
So those are the key things.
I think we've got to continue to look as you go forward at the cyclical nature especially of the food animal business and the competitive nature of the comp animal business.
So I think the intension is can you get a 1% to 3% price is a question that's out there in the industry that's still isn't validated yet but I think those are the factors to watch going forward.
Thanks Jeff.
Dave? Yeah.
As it relates to the amyloid positivity I should be clear we test the primary number of subjects select for PET scan some do receive see themselves as well but confirming positive amyloid we think is key to development in Alzheimer's.
And we believe that because we do have data in house that shows that patients who don't have amyloid do not respond to an anti-amyloid treatment.
And we also know from larger scale population studies they also don’t progress at the same rate.
So if they're in the placebo arm they're going to over-perform.
So for all these reasons and just logic we believe that's a critical element in Alzheimer's drug development.
Great.
Thanks Dave.
Tom next caller please.
And we have a follow-up question from the line of Tim Anderson with Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
A couple questions.
On your novel basal insulin you continue to talk bullishly about it on your early January guidance call.
And you said this remains a very important product for the Company.
And that's just not congruent at all with how consensus views the drug.
Consensus is very skeptical recognizing that there might be some positive efficacy attributes.
But there is also some unique and potentially worrisome toxicities like fatty liver.
And in a competitive category like insulin it seems that unique side effects could basically take down the commercial prospects for the product.
So I am hoping you can tell us what you think analysts are missing with this program.
And then the second question on -- a general question on base inhibitors.
Are -- what are the theoretical safety issues to monitor with these compounds given the magnitude to which they lower A-beta production? It seems like that's confounded by the fact that nobody really knows what the physiological role of A-beta is.
So how do you know what to watch for? And has there been any signals in any human studies that you are aware of? Or animal studies? Great.
Thanks Tim.
Enrique if you'll handle the first question on the novel basal insulin peglispro and then Jan if you'd like to hand the base question in terms of safety things looking out formally we've seen so far with molecules in humans.
Enrique? Sure.
So on the efficacy side I think what we basically have is five positive Phase 3 trials against Lantus.
Now let's keep in mind that we have not disclosed what the level of improvement is but statistically significant improvement in hemoglobin A1c in five trials is unprecedented and hemoglobin A1c reduction it is a -- has a tangible benefit when it comes to outcomes in particular in terms of the development of macrovascular complications.
So we see this as extremely important.
You spoke of some of the signals that we basically saw in our Phase 3 programs.
At this stage though I think we have to wait for us to be able to disclose the beta at ADA for you to be able to see exactly what is the benefit risk profile of this product.
Thanks Enrique.
Jan? Yes if we look at beta-secretase or base inhibitors the current base inhibitors in the clinic affects both the base one and the base two enzyme and clearly for the Alzheimer indication and the thinking is it's the base one enzyme that is then cleaning the APP precursor.
If we look at potential side effects we experience then probably other companies as well off target effects with some initial base inhibitors which we believe then underline some of the liver toxicity which is not unheard of with small molecules.
The more specific toxicology observations that we see is actually a deep pigmentation in some animals and the potential explanation for that is probably a base two effect.
So this is something that also needs to be monitored in the clinic.
Thank you Jan.
Tom do we have any callers in queue? And we have a follow-up question from the line of Steve Scala with Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I have two questions.
First on your CGRP monoclonal antibody for migraine looks spectacularly effective but with significant safety concerns including maybe cardiovascular wound healing intraocular pressure maybe [teratogenicity] [ph].
What are next steps for this compound? And there are a number of similar compounds in development.
Why is Lilly's best in class? And then second question on ixekizumab.
Lilly has provided solid top line data in psoriasis.
I know there are no head-to-head studies verses Novartis' secukinumab.
But based on the full data which you have and we don't would you say ixekizumab is comparable to secukinumab? Does it have a chance to be better? Or is ixekizumab less robust than secukinumab? Thank you Steve.
Jan would you like to comment maybe on CGRP please and then… Calcitonin gene related peptide or CGRP has been around for quite some time and has been and the mechanism has been studied both with small molecule oral agents as well and has more recently monoclonal antibodies.
And the studies with oral agents I think showed quite positive data in acute migraine treatment relief of symptoms but due to probably off target liver talks these agents could not be used for more chronic treatment.
On the other hand they were also tested in a variety of patients with other diseases and there were no real other side effects seen and this has been confirmed even more with the monoclonal antibodies which have -- are very specific and we have not seen any side effects with these type of agents so far in our studies.
And currently we are then in migraine in Phase 2 preparing for Phase 3 with more safety and dose ranging studies and we're also studying these agents for osteoarthritis but we are very bullish on this mechanism and realising it is a competitive area with several other players but we're doing our utmost to execute the trials in a very rapid fashion.
Thank you Jan.
Dave? As it relates to the IL-17s we're quite excited about this class.
We think both psoriasis has a lot of room for growth and IL-17s present really a compelling difference as a Group versus available therapies I think you have a strongly exhibited in the topline results we put out in September which demonstrated a very significant effect size improvement over etanercept in patients with moderate to severe psoriasis with ixekizumab.
We don't have class comparisons as you mentioned and Steve you will see our data come up pretty soon with a more full look at what we’re looking at.
But I'll just say qualitatively we think we have the potential to have the best drug in the class because at maximum doses we see extraordinary rates of PASI 100 clearance and I think our numbers are high.
So all the data is not out.
We need to see Amgen's full data set but I think we feel good that we could have the most effective medicine in the class.
And as we reported safety of ixekizumab in the moderate to severe patients with psoriasis was similar to that we saw with etanercept.
Great.
Thanks Dave.
Tom one last poll if we have any additional callers.
There are no questions in the queue at this time sir.
Please continue.
Thank you very much.
I'll go ahead and turn it over to John and then to wrap up the call.
John? Thank you Phil.
A brief wrap-up here.
To all those on the call we thank you for your continued interest in our company and for your support.
As we emerge from this journey that we have taken through years YZ I'm extremely proud that we have executed on the strategy that we laid out for you and deliver on the commitments we shared five years ago.
On January 7th we outlined our objectives for the balance of this decade.
We intend to drive year-on-year revenue growth through the balance of this decade spurred by new product launches from our pipeline.
Next we aim to turn that revenue growth into even greater earnings growth by controlling costs and leveraging existing infrastructure.
At the same time we aim to maintain a sustainable flow of innovative medicines from our pipeline.
And finally we will deploy capital to create value which includes returning excess cash to shareholders via both the dividend and share repurchases.
We remain convinced that our strategy is the right one for Lilly in order to create value for patients physicians payers and our shareholders.
And our ability to execute so far gives us increasing confidence at our future prospects.
As always we will keep you apprized of our progress.
Thank you once again.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 11:30 AM Eastern time through midnight on February 6 2015.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering access code 350414.
International participants please dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers again are 1-800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 access code 350414.
Thank you for your participation for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q1 2015 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions].
And I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Derica Rice.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning.
And thank you for joining us for Eli Lilly and Company's first quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Derica Rice Lilly's Chief Financial Officer.
John Lechleiter our Chairman President and CEO is traveling overseas and is unable to join us today.
However I do have a number of my colleagues with me here in person or dialing in.
And they are Dr.
Jan Lundberg our President of Lilly Research Laboratories; Sue Mahony President of Lilly Oncology; Enrique Conterno President of Lilly Diabetes; Dave Ricks President of Lilly Bio-Medicines; Chito Zulueta President of Emerging Markets; Jeff Simmons President of Elanco Animal Health; and Elissa Rassner Brad Roebling and Phil Johnson of Investor Relations team.
During this call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on slide 3 and those outlined in our latest Forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
Now 2015 is off to a very good start.
This quarter we had solid underlying business performance offset by the continued strengthening of the U.S.
dollar and lingering headwinds from U.S.
patent expirations of Cymbalta and Evista.
Our continued focus on cost controls drove strong leverage at the bottom line and we saw positive progress with our pipeline spanning regulatory approvals submissions and Phase III data readouts.
Now I'll begin today's call by highlighting key events that have occurred since our last quarterly earnings call and there have been quite a lot of them.
Starting with commercial milestones our U.S.
colleagues began promotion of CYRAMZA for second-line metastatic non-small cell lung cancer after receiving FDA approval late last year.
While in Europe our colleagues launched CYRAMZA for the treatment of second-line gastric cancer.
In diabetes following EU approval in Q4 we launched Humalog 200 units [Technical Difficulty] KwikPen the first 200 units per mil mealtime insulin that is targeted for people who take more than 20 units of rapid-acting mealtime insulin per day.
And following FDA approval at the end of January along with Boehringer Ingelheim we launched Glyxambi in the U.S.
in March.
We're excited about the potential of this product which is the first approved single-fill combination of a DPP 4 inhibitor and an SGLT2 inhibitor.
Turning to regulatory milestones in addition to FDA approval of Glyxambi Boehringer Ingelheim received a positive opinion from Europe's CHOP for the single pill combination of Empagliflozin and Metformin for the treatment of patients with Type 2 diabetes.
If approved the product will be marketed under the trade name Synjardy.
In oncology we achieved a number of regulatory milestones for Cyramza.
After receiving a priority review Cyramza was approved in Japan as a treatment for patients with unresectable advanced or recurrent gastric cancer.
Given the regulatory timelines for pricing in Access decisions launch is expected midyear.
We also submitted Cyramza in both the U.S.
and the EU for second-line metastatic colorectal cancer.
I would note that the FDA's review of this SBLA is moving very quickly.
And also in the EU we submitted Cyramza for second-line non-small cell lung cancer.
We're very pleased with the progress we've made in bringing Cyramza to market having received regulatory approvals in the U.S.
the EU and Japan within less than 12 months.
As I'll discuss later we're also excited about life cycle opportunities for this brand.
In our bio-medicines business we submitted ixekizumab to the FDA for review as a treatment for patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis.
And along with Pfizer we announced that the FDA removed the partial clinical hold for tanezumab.
As a result we will begin Phase III trials in multiple pain indications before the end of the year.
Our decision to proceed with the development of tanezumab triggered a $200 million payment to Pfizer.
On the clinical front along with Incyte we announced that baricitinib met the primary endpoint of improved ACR20 response compared to placebo in the Phase III RA build study in patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who had an inadequate response to or were intolerant of at least one conventional DMARD.
At the American Academy of Dermatology meeting in March we presented detailed results from the positive Phase III Uncover One study evaluating ixekizumab in patients with moderate to severe psoriasis.
Also for ixekizumab we issued a topline press release earlier this week announcing positive results from the Phase III Spirit P-1 study evaluating ixekizumab in patients with active psoriatic arthritis who were naive to biologic treatment.
I'm also pleased to announce that we have completed enrollment of the EXPEDITION 3 trial evaluating solanezumab in amyloid positive patients with mild Alzheimer's disease.
Given that we completed enrollment ahead of schedule we now expect last patient visit in October of 2016.
For our CTP inhibitor evacetrapib we announced that the accelerate Phase III study in people with high-risk vascular disease will be extended by approximately six months.
Last patient visit for this study is now expected in July of 2016.
And we announced that regulatory submission of our basal insulin peglispro will be delayed in order to generate additional clinical data to further understand and characterize the potential effects if any of changes in liver fat observed with [indiscernible] treatment in the Phase III trial.
We're working with regulators to determine specific next steps but we do anticipate the regulatory submission is likely to occur after 2016.
And we look forward to presenting detailed Phase III data at this year's ADA meeting.
On the business development front we announced three deals.
The first was an agreement with Hanmi for the development and commercialization of Hanmi's oral BTK inhibitor for the treatment of autoimmune and other diseases.
Lilly will have worldwide rights excluding China Hong Kong Taiwan and Korea.
The second was a collaboration with Innovent for the development and commercialization in China for three investigational cancer treatments.
In addition Lilly will be responsible for the development and commercialization outside of China for a preclinical immuno-oncology molecule and for up to three preclinical bi-specific immuno-oncology molecules from Innovent.
And the third deal which we announced last week with Bristol-Myers Squibb was for the transfer back to Lilly of Erbitux' commercial rights in North America.
These rights were scheduled to revert to Lilly in September 2018 but we expect this deal will accelerate that transition to Q4 this year.
In other news the German Court of Appeals ruled that the vitamin regimen patent for Alimta would not be infringed by a generic competitor that intends to market a dipotassium salt form of pemetrexed in Germany once the compound patent expires in December of 2015.
We will seek permission to appeal this ruling to the German Supreme Court.
And finally we repurchased just over $300 million of stock in Q1 leaving $3.4 billion remaining on our $5 billion plan.
In addition during the first quarter we distributed over $500 million to shareholders via our dividend.
We remain committed to providing a robust dividend and to returning excess cash to shareholders via share repurchase.
2014 was a productive year for execution of our innovation-based strategy.
Likewise 2015 is off to a strong start with more to come.
Now I'll turn the call over to Phil for a discussion of our financial performance for the quarter.
Phil? Thanks Derica.
Before I review our Q1 results it may be helpful to comment on the presentation of our GAAP results and non-GAAP measures.
For our GAAP results remember that we closed the Novartis Animal Health acquisition on January 1.
So in interpreting our GAAP results and growth rates versus 2014 please keep in mind that 2014 does not include Novartis Animal Health.
While 2015 includes the operating results of this business as well as all the costs associated with the acquisition including financing costs integration costs inventory step-up costs amortization of intangibles and other miscellaneous adjustments.
For our non-GAAP measures recall that like our peers we're now excluding amortization of intangibles from our non-GAAP measures.
To provide you a better idea of underlying trends in our business based on our current reporting practices and business configuration we've adjusted our non-GAAP measures for 2014 to exclude the expense associated with amortization of intangibles and to include Novartis Animal Health as if we had closed the acquisition on January 1 2014.
This places 2014 on the same basis upon which we're reporting our financials this year.
In addition to aiding your analysis of our non-GAAP measures you'll see that we posted an Excel file to our Investor Relations website that contains our 2014 non-GAAP measures adjusted to remove intangible amortization and to add Novartis Animal Health.
With that background let's take a look at our results for the quarter.
Slide 8 provides a summary of our GAAP results.
As I'll focus my comments on our non-GAAP adjusted measures to provide insights into the underlying trends in our business please refer to today's earnings press release for a detailed description of the year-on-year changes in our first-quarter reported or GAAP results.
Moving to slide 9 you can see that Q1 revenue was just over $4.6 billion.
The decrease of 6% compared to Q1 2014 reflects significant FX headwinds.
Excluding FX our Q1 revenue on a non-GAAP basis was essentially flat.
As we discussed on our guidance call this year we will still feel the negative effect of the loss of U.S.
exclusivity for Cymbalta and Evista.
This quarter sales of those two products in the U.S.
declined by nearly $200 million.
Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates and Cymbalta and Evista in the U.S.
the rest of our worldwide revenue increased 5% this quarter.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue increased 3.6 percentage points going from 74.6% to 78.2%.
This increase was entirely driven by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates on International inventories sold which increased cost of sales in Q1 last year but decreased cost of sales in Q1 this year.
Excluding this FX effect our gross margin percent declined by 1.1 percentage points going from 76.4% in last year's quarter to 75.3% this quarter.
Please do take note of the level of our gross margin percent excluding the FX effect on International inventories sold.
Again you'll see that this is running at roughly 75%.
As we discussed when updating our guidance on our Q4 earnings call in 2015 we expect a substantial FX benefit that should push our gross margin percent into the 78% range.
However if FX rates stay at their current levels that benefit will essentially go away in 2016.
So as you construct your estimate of our 2016 gross margin percent you should be making adjustments off of a 2015 base level of roughly 75%.
As in past quarters you'll find a supplementary slide providing our gross margin percent for the last 10 quarters with and without this FX effect.
Total operating expense defined as the sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A declined by 7% or nearly $200 million compared to Q1 of 2014.
Marketing selling and administrative expenses declined 6% while R&amp;D declined 9%.
The reduction in marketing selling and administrative expenses was due primarily to the favorable impact of foreign exchange as well as to ongoing cost-containment efforts.
The reduction in R&amp;D expense was driven primarily by the lower late- stage clinical development costs and to a lesser extent the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates.
As implied by our full-year guidance we do expect the level of R&amp;D spend to be higher for the remainder of the year as we start Phase III trials for tanezumab our CGRP monoclonal antibody olimertumab and additional indications for Cyramza.
Other income and expense was income of $93 million in Q1 2015 compared to income of $36 million in the first quarter of 2014.
This increase versus last year was due to a favorable legal judgment and larger net gains on investments.
Our tax rate was 22.9% an increase of 3 percentage points compared to the same quarter last year.
This increase is primarily due to a discrete tax benefit realized in Q1 last year.
Also our tax rate in both periods did not include the benefit of certain U.S.
tax provisions including the R&amp;D tax credit as those provisions had lapsed.
At the bottom line net income increased 16% while earnings-per-share increased 18% reflecting the benefit of our share repurchases.
Slide 10 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS and you'll find additional details on these adjustments on slide 19.
Now let's take a look at the effect of price rate and volume on revenue.
On slide 11 in the yellow box in the middle of the page you'll see the total revenue decline on a non-GAAP basis that I mentioned earlier of 6%.
The significant strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against many foreign currencies drove this decline as you see the 6% negative effect from FX that we booked this quarter with a favorable price effect of 3% offset by a volume decline of a similar amount.
By geography you'll notice that U.S.
Pharma revenue increased 4% driven by price partially offset by volume.
A number of pushes and pulls affected U.S.
Pharma revenue growth this quarter.
First as I mentioned earlier Cymbalta and Evista declined following their patent expirations.
Excluding Cymbalta and Evista the rest of our U.S.
Pharma revenue increased 18% with over 7 percentage points coming from volume.
Also recall that on our Q4 earnings call we mentioned that an extension of shipping days through the end of December 2014 resulted in lower wholesale inventory build in Q4 of 2014 than in Q4 of 2013.
As expected this led to less wholesale inventory burn in Q1 this year than in Q1 last year benefiting this year's growth rate.
So when adjusted for wholesale buying as well as Cymbalta and Evista our U.S.
Pharma revenue grew 14% this quarter with 3 percentage points coming from volume.
Moving to our International operations in Australia Canada and Europe or ACE you'll see a negative 13% rate impact was the primary driver of the overall 16% decline in revenue.
While on a constant currency or performance basis ACE revenue decreased 3% driven primarily by the initial effects of a loss of exclusivity for Cymbalta.
In Japan Pharma revenue decreased 23% with half of the decline coming from the weaker yen.
On a performance basis our Japanese Pharma revenue decreased 11%.
You may recall that we experienced substantial wholesaler buying in Q1 2014 in advance of an increase in the local consumption tax.
Adjusting for the increased buying we saw last year our Pharma revenue grew about 9% on a performance basis driven by volume.
Turning to Emerging Markets we saw mid-single-digit performance growth driven by volume growth of 7%.
As a result of the significant negative effect of FX our reported Emerging Markets revenue declined 4% versus last year.
Our Pharma revenue in China grew 6% with nearly all of that growth coming from volume.
On a non-GAAP basis which adjusts 2014 as if we'd completed the Novartis Animal Health acquisition on January 1 last year Elanco Animal Health revenue declined 4%.
Excluding the negative effect of FX; Elanco revenue increased 2%.
This performance increase was affected by competition in the U.S.
for companion animal products.
Moving to slide 12 you'll see the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on our Q1 2015 results.
Given the significant and swift strengthening of the U.S.
dollar this is one of those quarters where FX has the opposite effect on the topline as it does on the bottom line.
This quarter FX was a top line headwind reducing revenue in U.S.
dollars by 6 percentage points.
In terms of cost of goods sold however FX provided a substantial benefit which led to FX providing a tailwind or benefit for operating income and EPS.
Excluding FX you can see that our non-GAAP EPS in the first quarter grew 7% while including FX non-GAAP EPS grew 18%.
Slide 13 shows our pipeline as of April 17.
Changes since our last earnings call are highlighted with green arrows showing progression red arrows showing attrition and stars showing molecules added through business development.
You'll see that ixekizumab has moved into the regulatory review column following regulatory submission in the U.S.
Following our agreement with Tosano to develop their proprietary formulation of parathyroid hormone 1 to 34 using a microneedle patch system you'll see that asset showing up in Phase II.
And in Phase I you'll see two assets have been added through business development activities an ultrarapid acting insulin through our deal with Adosha and a BTK inhibitor initially being studied in immunologic diseases through our deal with Hanmi.
In addition we began Phase I testing of a small molecule for diabetes and another for Parkinson's disease.
And we terminated development of a Phase I small molecule for cardiovascular disease.
You'll also see that we've moved Blosozumab from Phase II to Phase I.
Our efforts to identify a commercially attractive formulation have been unsuccessful and we've decided not to move Blosozumab into Phase III development for osteoporosis at this time.
We'll evaluate our strategy for the Blosozumab development program to determine next steps.
Now let me turn the call back over to Derica.
Thanks Phil.
I'll recap progress we've made in our key events for 2015 and then review our 2015 financial guidance.
Turning to slide 14 you may recall that when we showed this slide on our Q4 earnings call in late January we had already achieved two events presentation of data for ramucirumab in second-line metastatic colorectal cancer and completion of the acquisition of Novartis Animal Health.
Since that time we've achieved a number of additional milestones.
We begin our second wave of Phase III trials for Cyramza initiating a pivotal trial in first line gastric cancer.
In terms of the additional lifecycle investments in Cyramza you'll also see that we've specified that the Phase III lung cancer trial will be in the first-line setting in patients with the EGFR mutation positive.
And we've added two new Phase III trial starts to our list of 2015 events.
One is second-line bladder cancer and the other in second-line liver cancer in patients with elevated baseline alpha-beta protein levels.
This is the population where we saw a pronounced overall survival benefit in the Phase III reach trial.
You'll also see that we've added a key event for our CGRP monoclonal antibody.
In the coming weeks we expect to start a Phase III trial in patients with episodic cluster headaches.
Moving to the next Section as mentioned earlier we issued a second positive Phase III topline press release for baricitinib in rheumatoid arthritis.
And earlier this week we issued a topline press release outlining positive results from a Phase III trial of ixekizumab in psoriatic arthritis.
Also for ixekizumab but in moderate to severe plaque psoriasis we presented detailed results of the Phase III Uncover One trial at the AAD meeting in March.
In the regulatory submissions category you'll see the green check marks for the ramucirumab and ixekizumab submissions I mentioned earlier as well as the red checkmark for the delay in submission for basal insulin peglispro.
While in the regulatory actions section you'll see the green checkmarks for the approvals received in Japan for Cyramza in gastric cancer and Glyxambi here in the U.S.
Finally we've reflected the progress made with tanezumab lifting of the partial clinical hold paving the way to resume Phase III trials as well as the negative Appeals Court ruling on Alimta in Germany.
2015 represents another year for execution of our innovation-based strategy and we're pleased with our progress so far and are excited for what lies ahead.
While we know not all of the remaining events are likely to be positive we're increasingly confident that a significant majority will break our way and solidify our near- to medium-term growth prospects.
Now turning to our 2015 financial guidance I first point out that our substantial EPS beat in the quarter relative to consensus came from two line items.
Lower R&amp;D expenses and higher other income.
In both cases we believe these represent differences in timing between our expectations and consensus not differences in expectations for the full year.
In terms of our non-GAAP guidance for 2015 at a high level we're reconfirming our full-year guidance both the individual line items and the EPS range.
To provide some more color we have seen further strengthening of the U.S.
dollar since our call in late January and this is causing further FX headwinds at the top and bottom lines.
However the underlying performance of our business is offsetting this additional downside.
Specifically on FX when compared to our late January outlook we expect the continued strengthening of the U.S.
dollar to trim an additional $150 million to $175 million from revenue and another $0.05 to $0.06 from EPS.
For the full year we now expect FX to reduce revenue growth by about 7.5% or about 1.4 billion to $1.5 billion.
In terms of EPS we now forecast a negative FX effect of about $0.13.
Comprised of an operational FX hit of about $0.60 offset by benefit to cost of sales of nearly $0.50.
As we discussed should FX rates remain at current levels this cost of sales benefit in 2015 would essentially go away in 2016.
You'll want to consider this as you model our gross margin percent and EPS for 2016.
For our GAAP guidance you will see that we've incorporated changes related to our decision to proceed with the development of tanezumab and the deals we signed with Hanmi Innovent and Bristol-Myers Squibb.
Finally keep in mind that our 2015 GAAP guidance is based on our current estimate for how we'll account for the Novartis Animal Health acquisition and the Erbitux deal and could change based upon revised estimates and final accounting treatment.
In summary while our first-quarter revenue reflects the impact of foreign exchange headwinds and the lingering effect of U.S.
patent expirations for Cymbalta and Evista Lilly remains on track to return to growth in 2015 driven by excellent progress in our innovation-based strategy.
We had solid underlying business performance and our continued focus on cost controls drove strong leverage at the bottom line.
Recent new product launches along with the growing success of our late stage pipeline reinforce our confidence in our future.
Since our last earnings announcement we've seen one FDA approval and two FDA submissions in addition to approvals and submissions in Europe and Japan.
We've also seen a continuing series of positive data readouts for our late stage assets.
We're pleased with the performance of recently launched products as well as growth at several established products.
Excluding the hit from unfavorable exchange rates and lower U.S.
sales of Cymbalta and Evista the rest of our worldwide revenue increased 5% this quarter.
We've started 2015 in a position of strength and our continued cost containment efforts allow us to build on our innovation-based strategy through both internal and external investments.
As we transition from a period of unprecedented patent expirations to an era of growth we're seeing tangible results from our innovation-based strategy and we're increasingly optimistic about the opportunity we have to bring innovative new medicines to patients and create value for shareholders.
As we discussed in January throughout the balance of this decade we aim to drive revenue growth and expand margins.
You'll see us sharpen our focus on areas where we're best positioned to compete and win and find ways to increase productivity and do the work of pharmaceutical R&amp;D better.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Now I'll turn the call over to Phil to moderate the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions].
We will go to the line of Mark Schoenebaum of Evercore ISI.
This is Salim in for Mark.
Thanks so much for all the color on the call.
It's really helpful.
Two questions one on Glyxambi.
Can you give us your thoughts where are the patients going to come from? Do you expect cannibalization of your new products or are these going to be new patients to the Lilly franchise? And then Cyramza if you could provide please a breakout on gastric versus lung sales? Thanks.
Obviously Enrique first question for you on Glyxambi and then over to you Sue for the Cyramza question.
Enrique? On Glyxambi clearly we're looking at the benefit that this product could provide for patients that are not achieving good control on metformin.
So we see this as a very attractive options for many of those patients.
And that's basically what our clinical results also say.
So we're excited.
We're the very early stages of our launch.
We launched in late March so we're at this time basically introducing this product to healthcare providers.
Sure.
And with Cyramza the vast majority of the sales that we're seeing is in gastric cancer impacting the U.S.
where we launched last year.
We're seeing use with the majority of the sales coming from use in combination with taxitaxil [ph] as we expected.
We did see in Q1 though a proportion of sales coming from the lung launch.
It's early days yet on lung.
But what we're seeing uptake there and the feedback so far is positive from physicians in the use of Cyramza in lung cancer indications.
And clearly in Europe we just launched beginning of this year in Europe and where we're seeing access for example in countries like Germany again early days but the uptake in the gastric indication there is positive.
Yes.
Just I did not answer the question on what impact would Glyxambi have on both Trajenta and Jardiance.
We're not really thinking about the cannibalization aspects when introducing this product.
We think this product is a very unique product.
And if anything we believe that this product is actually going to strengthen both Trajenta and Jardiance as it becomes - as it basically gains acceptance in the marketplace.
We will go to the line of Tim Anderson with Bernstein.
Love to get your updated perspective on solanezumab and the Alzheimer's opportunities in light of the biogen data.
Mechanistically of course both products target A-beta.
They do it in reasonably different ways.
Yesterday Roche who had two monoclonals suggested that they may push forward with a plaque-targeting version of their drug versus the other product that hits multiple forms of A-beta.
Your product targets soluble A-beta yet you also have in development a plaque-specific monoclonal.
So given the totality of their data what's your latest thinking here? What has the best chance of success a drug that targets soluble or deposited plaque? And then another question if last patient visit is October 2016 does it mean that we would only learn of results downstream of that or would we possibly learn of a topline ahead of that last patient visit? Dave if you'd like to take a shot at the two questions? Jan do feel free to chime in as well particularly on the first portion of Tim's question if you'd like.
Dave? Obviously [Technical Difficulty] interest in Alzheimer's disease.
And as you know for a long time we've believed in solanezumab's mechanism clearing the [indiscernible] data.
We're starting to have a - conclude enrollments in Expedition 3 and now we're on the clock for last patients achieve 18 months of therapy.
In the past we've communicated there was a chance we may - we had allowed for an interim risk but as I've said before that feature of the program was only valuable in the case of a slow enrollment rate.
Again at this point we haven't made a definitive decision.
I would continue to guide people to focus on the end of the study as when we'll be learning about the effects of solanezumab.
So to your question that would be after the October 16 last patient visit.
As you rightly point out we also have specific interest in a Phase I program in that area.
We're also excited about that mechanism.
Recognizing that the mechanisms may in fact be complementary in some sense either sequentially or combined together that specific antibodies to date the ones that we had published data on also have a safety side effect profile that's to our eye quite different from solanezumab from the patient inherence perspective et cetera that may have an impact.
So we'll have to let both of these mechanisms play out.
And we're excited about both of them and I think with Alzheimer's it is truly unique moment here as we've seen these modifying effects from multiple different programs.
Let me just add that I think it's very likely that these mechanisms are complementary.
And clearly solanezumab has also shown preferable safety profile particularly in relation to ARIA either on the brain edema dilemma that you see with this plaque-specific antibodies at least then from competitors.
So I think we now need to wait and see what happens with it in these bigger trials.
Tim just a little more color on your question about hearing results downstream from that October 2016 date.
As we've been through this a number of times as you may recall that after last patient visit there is time that needs to transpire for the database to actually be locked cleaned and validated and then for us to run tables and figures and so typically topline press releases have been after last patient visit by multiple months.
So you should expect to see a topline press release downstream certainly of that October 2016 last patient visit date.
We will go next to the line of Gregg Gilbert with Deutsche Bank.
I was hoping you could provide a little more color on some of the softness in the quarter for Alimta and Animal Health.
You mentioned some competitive pressures there.
Could you expand a bit? And then on the pipeline Jan on the CGRP product are you still pursuing chronic and episodic headache as well? And when might we see data on those products? And then lastly on the glucagon receptor antagonist can you frame for us what you're trying to accomplish there and where it might fit in to the broader spectrum of treatments? Thanks.
Sue if you can comment on the Alimta performance in the quarter.
Jeff obviously for Animal Health with CGRP actually having transitioned to Dave's organization I think from a planning perspective Dave why don't you take a first crack at talking about our development plans for CGRP.
And then Enrique and Jan if you want to fill in for the glucagon receptor antagonist that would be great.
Sue we'll start with you? Sure.
Alimta performance was mainly impacted by FX worldwide.
We had a 1% volume decline with a 7% rate and a 1% price.
If we look at it by geography we actually increased in the U.S.
by 3% and that was mainly driven by price.
In Europe we had a 2% volume increase and that was offset mainly by FX with also some price impact in ENB.
We also had a volume increase again offset half by price and half by rate.
In Japan we had the same impact that was mentioned earlier with regards to the buy-in that we saw last year on the consumption tax increase.
So we did have a volume decrease versus last year's quarter.
But also a rate impact in Japan.
On companimals real quick like we've seen and really expected these headwinds with increased competition really coming in a couple areas two new competitive entries as well as a reentry in the marketplace.
We're two drivers I would add an additional one which has really been some distraction from the integration.
We've really used a rapid pace with the integration of both companies and from this being the first and second quarter critical to the companimal business this also had an impact.
I will note though on the integration it's going better than expected.
We're three months in and I do believe that both Novartis and Lohmann will be enablers to our medium- and long-term growth in the companimal segment as well as globally.
We've relaunched as well Interceptor.
Three weeks after the closing the Management teams have both been combined.
We've got a Management team that includes some Novartis executives and I believe we've now got the majority of the global sales force in place.
So again we're finding far more positives than negatives at this stage with the Novartis integration.
It will be an enabler for growth and as we've previously communicated the savings level of $200 million will be our minimum expectation.
Dave on CGRP development plans? Yes.
So I think your question was whether our clients were chronic or episodic headache? Remembering there's actually two types of headaches we're looking at here.
What we've been talking about today is the addition to the pipeline advancement chart of moving CGRP into Phase III here in the coming months for a condition called cluster headache and we'll be studying that in both the chronic and the episodic forms.
This is an orphan-type indication that we're moving into.
We're also continuing the development in episodic [Technical Difficulty].
Lilly is not planning to study chronic migraine at this time and we've had impressive results from our Phase II program in episodic migraine.
We'll be seeking to replicate these results in Phase III and right now we have a Phase IIb program going on to further define the dose for that larger migraine program.
And then Enrique or Jan on the GRA? Maybe I'll start and then Jan can help here.
But clearly our glucagon receptor antagonist is right now in Phase II.
What we basically have seen is rapid reductions in Humalog A1c.
We saw it increase high posts or weight gain.
The way we're thinking about this product is this product has to offer a benefit vis-a-vis a number of oral options that are available today and that in the future will be available in generic form.
So we're thinking that this product could be an attractive option in the early segment for patients that have impaired renal function where beta cell health might not be great.
We don't see lots of options for these types of patients and GRA could be an attractive option there.
Jan? Just complement there the metabolism of this agent is independent of renal function.
So therefore it's suitable with patients then that have some compromise in their renal function.
And that will come from the line of Tony Butler of Guggenheim Partners.
Number one Jan if you could comment on restarts for tanezumab.
Would the focus again be NOA or osteoarthritis? Number two what actually led to the decision to delay the evacetrapib look? Was it just simply the DSMB making some judgments about event rates? And then finally again back to Alzheimer's I think there's data supporting combination maybe it's totally in animals but combinations of A-beta antibody in the base inhibitor.
And just trying to understand how you think about really from a cost standpoint and also from a mechanistic standpoint think about combinations versus solanezumab versus one or the other antibodies alone as we progress over time? So something beyond 2016.
Thanks very much.
Dave actually I think I'll ask you to take a crack at these since these assets are currently sitting with your business unit.
Jan obviously feel free to supplement his response if you think it's appropriate.
Dave? Good.
As it relates to tanezumab yes we're pleased to be able to now move off of clinical hold and do plan to proceed into Phase III as soon as later this year with Pfizer.
There will actually be three indications that will be pursued.
Osteoarthritis as you mentioned Tony we'll also be looking at chronic low back pain and then chronic pain associated with cancer.
And that program is similar to what had been previously studied and then stopped at Phase III.
On evacetrapib as we mentioned earlier in the quarter the extension of time is really not related to the evacetrapib study accelerate.
It was a set of recommendations made by our academic advisors and accepted by the company based on information coming from other major long-term cardiovascular event studies where it has been noted that in mediate or recent ACS patients that the impact of lipid managements is a bit delayed in these patients.
And we wanted to make sure we fully accounted for this new information in sizing the trial thus the six-month extension into middle of 2016.
Maybe just briefly on Alzheimer's and Jan perhaps can elaborate on the Lilly-generated combination data but we have no doubt that this disease when we find and have approved these modifiers will be requiring multiple mechanisms to fully arrest its impacts.
And we do think mechanisms such as plaque-targeted antibodies such as base inhibitors and soluble A-beta antibodies and maybe even TAL-based therapies could be combined in all kinds of forms to achieve optimal results.
Of course the science in this space is evolving rapidly and frankly pretty new.
We don't have human data in combinations that I'm aware of.
So that's a whole field that would need to be explored hopefully after a positive solanezumab study in late 2016.
Let me just add a comment about tanezumab the [indiscernible] growth factor which I feel is highly exciting based on that the chronic-pain area is really needing a new agent.
And if you consider the current dilemmas and problems that are with opioids in relation to addiction tolerance or even death due to abuse and so on and NSAIDS has a number of gastrointestinal side effects and there is an increased cardiovascular risk.
So I think the opportunity for a new chronic-pain agent is a major one.
In relation to the Alzheimer's combos it's quite intriguing to think about different mechanisms again.
Then if you have existing plaque they need to be cleared and most likely by some microglial activation.
And we have our N3pG plaque-specific antibody that can do that.
And then you need to prevent further buildup of plaques with A-beta and that can be achieved either by a base inhibitor or potentially by solanezumab binding them the free AB tests.
We're looking forward to making not only the preclinical experiments in a further solid way but also to test this in the clinic.
But first we need to have good data with these different agents before we can combine them.
We will go to the line of Jami Rubin of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Jay Olson in for Jami Rubin.
On Alimta can you help us understand when should we expect to get news on the appeal of the German and UK court decisions regarding the Alimta method-of-use patent? And then do you expect the approval of PD1 antibodies for use in lung cancer to impact the sales of Alimta? And then just on Trulicity any details if you could provide on how the launch is progressing? Thank you.
Sue the first two for you and then we'll go over to Enrique for the last question on Trulicity.
Jay with regards to the Alimta patent in the German court as you know ruled in our favor last year on the infringement case.
In March that was appealed and the appeal ruled against Alimta.
And so basically has ruled that the vitamin regimen patent would not be infringed by generic competitor if they intend to market post the loss of the compound patent the end of December of this year and we will seek permission to appeal this decision to the German Supreme Court.
We anticipate that the appeal hearing will happen though after the compound patent has expired in Germany.
In the UK the High Court ruled against Lilly in the first instance in May of last year.
We have appealed this ruling.
The appeal was heard in March of this year.
We have yet to hear the outcome of that appeal.
And as a reminder that case covered the UK but also France Italy and Spain.
So we're waiting to hear what the outcome of that appeal would be.
Regarding your question on the PD1 inhibitors on Alimta the main use of Alimta and where we promote Alimta because we believe that's where we see the best benefit for patients is in the first-line setting and in the maintenance setting.
As you are aware the Optivo launch and the data that we're seeing in some later lines of therapy so we do not see an impact in the near future on Alimta.
Clearly there are other studies ongoing in the first-line setting.
We'll need to see what those readouts are over the coming years.
Additionally we do believe that combinations are going to be important going forward.
And so we have a collaboration with Merck to look at combining Keytruda and Alimta in the first-line non-squamous setting so clearly we need to see the data from all those trials over the coming months and years.
So far I think the launch of Trulicity is going well.
Let me comment first on the GLP-1 market because we had shared that we felt that Trulicity could be an important catalyst for the overall growth in that class.
And long-term for us this is critical as we think about the prospects for this product.
A year ago when we looked at Q1 of 2014 this class was growing 6% when we look at TRX growth.
This year this class is growing 10 percentage points higher so the growth is at 16%.
And importantly the growth is still accelerating as we look at new prescriptions.
So it is an important start because we do believe that Trulicity will be a major player in this class but we want to make sure that this class is as relevant as it basically could be.
To give some details on our penetration within the class itself Trulicity today has an 11% new to patient neutral brand share.
This is comparable to BYDUREON at 23 and Victoza at 51.
We're pleased with what we see importantly because we have to put into context that in Q1 what we've shared is that access discussions are going well.
And just to provide some color in Q1 we had a 65% availability in commercial and no availability in part D.
Commercial is about 75% of the overall market so clearly what this basically means for Trulicity that we had access to about 50% of the market so we need to look at 11% new to run of course in that context.
What we have shared is that we feel good about our access in commercial.
We continue to advance those numbers so we're closer to 70% now.
And in part D we had shared in the past that we were expecting access most likely starting 2016.
We're pleased to report that we have already some limited access in part D and we believe that access will continue to increase through Q2 and Q3.
So we're getting access faster than we had expected and this I think response to the value that the payers see in this particular product.
We will go next to the line of John Boris with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Just back to a question for Enrique on Trulicity while you're still on it.
With that kind of growth 16% growth can you talk about how the launch of the Primary Care is going? What percent of the business or prescriptions that are generated are being generated by endos versus Primary Care? And then you'll approach about six months post-launch about midyear with that kind of growth in the market one would think a good dose of direct-to-consumer advertising might be useful in driving uptake of a product? So just commentary around that? Second question has to do with the Alimta ruling in the UK on the appellate decision.
Just your thoughts around timing of that? Is that something you're expecting to happen in the second quarter? And then I noticed in your slide deck you do have outcomes coming on U.S.
and Japan.
Can you remind us what's going on there? And then lastly on Alzheimer's disease and TAL you made some acquisitions of some diagnostics in 2013 on TAL.
Neurofibrillary tangles are a little bit different.
When might we potentially see some assets targeting the TAL area coming of your pipeline? Thanks.
Enrique we'll start with you for the Trulicity questions.
And Sue if you want to comment on Alimta and Jan for the TAL? Sure.
So providing a little more detail when we look at both endos and Primary Care endos which represent slightly under 30% of the overall GLP-1 market our new to patient share is 18%.
So clearly this reflects the fact that we launched in that to endos earlier.
In Primary Care our share is still in the high single digits when it comes to new to patient share but it's increasing fast.
So we feel good in terms of where we're today.
I think it's important to note that in Primary Care we basically really have about two and a half months basically since we launched so it's still very early but we're seeing week-to-week progression when it comes to our new to patient share.
And clearly the continued improved access I think is going to play very well for us.
In terms of our plans as we seek to build this brand one comment but clearly we're not ruling out direct to consumer or any of those investment.
Clearly there is a lot of direct-to-consumer investments in the U.S.
right now and that's something that we look very closely for all of our brands.
With regard to the Alimta hearing or the Alimta patent the UK decision will clearly depend on the timing from the court but we do anticipate we'll hear sometime later this year on that.
In Japan the JPO hearing was heard in February.
And again we're expecting to get a determinant on that case again sometime later this year.
In the U.S.
as you're aware the District Court has ruled in Lilly's favor on validity.
The case has gone back to the court regarding infringement.
That case is now being heard on May 28 of this year.
First the TAL imaging agent is making intriguing progress and seems to differ in relation to what you can achieve compared to the amyloid imaging.
The TAL imaging seems to correlate quite well to symptom decline in and progression then of Alzheimer's disease.
It also has a regional distribution in the brain that also seems to correlate with symptoms and there is a great interest in the overall academic and pharmaceutical community for this particular agent.
We're also testing whether the TAL imaging could potentially be a surrogate marker then for Alzheimer's disease progression and how you can influence that with pharmaceuticals.
And there will be a subgroup in EXPEDITION 3 then for solanezumab that will have the TAL tracer before and after treatment.
In relation to TAL therapeutics we're very interested to see if we can inhibit the spread of TAL mis-folded protein in the brain which seems to happen in the prion-like fashion.
And we have a monoclonal antibody in preclinical development that if everything goes well we should have that in Phase I next year.
And we will go next to the line of Chris Schott with JPMorgan.
This is Wendy Lin on for Chris.
Just a couple.
How are you thinking about what insights you've learned from the recent DPP4 adcom panel and any impact it might have on the DPP 4 class? And can you talk about your relative confidence in Jardiance with regard to the CV outcome study and the possibility that the study could show a net benefit to patients? And then in ontology in light of the Pfizer I brands approval and the early stoppage of their second-line study can you update us on your program? Thanks.
Sure.
Thanks for the questions Wendy.
Enrique obviously to you for the DPP4 adcom question and our CV outcomes trial for Jardiance.
And then Sue for the [indiscernible] update? Well on DPP4 as I think we all have seen or heard the discussion at the advisory committee.
Clearly there was a lot to focus on both CV safety but also all-cause mortality endpoints.
It is difficult for me to speculate any action that the FDA may take.
I think what I can basically say as far as Trajenta is concerned and we have to keep in mind that these numbers are very low so we cannot have any type of conclusive interpretation from this data but when we look at our randomized placebo-controlled clinical trials and when we look at the data for Trajenta in both cases when it comes to CV mortality and when it comes to all-cause mortality our house of ratios were below 1.
So we have no signals that would indicate that linagliptin would cause - would have an issue when it comes to either all-cause mortality or CV death.
When it comes to the data for dose-specific DPP4 as I think you have to ask the respective companies.
As far as Jardiance is concerned we're very excited to be able to get to see the results from our outcome trial.
At this stage I've characterized our chances as decent but we have to wait and see.
So we will be basically having a chance to look at these results over the summer and we expect to basically publish topline results when we have this data available.
Regarding abemacyclic we're very excited by this molecule and we believe that the latest news [indiscernible] validates the CDK46 class.
And we believe that we could have a best-in-class molecule here with single -gent activity continuous dosing and also our molecule crosses the blood-brain barrier.
We're moving quickly on our trials.
We have our two Phase III trials ongoing and enrolling one which is our Phase II trial ongoing as well as our Kraz [ph] lung study so we're moving quickly.
Our plan is to enroll these trials as quickly as possible so we can get data out hopefully over the next year or so on these trials.
Also we have started a breast cancer study for women with brain mets.
That will be - because we know that abemacyclic crosses the blood- brain barrier we believe that that could be a good opportunity for this molecule.
So we're excited and we look forward to sharing more data with you.
And we will go to the line of Seamus Fernandez with Leerink.
Please go ahead.
So maybe you could just update us on some key data sets through the balance of this year and maybe if you could focus a little bit more on the data sets for Phase II that could actually have products entering into Phase III that would be very helpful.
As a second question this may be for the CV team but maybe you could talk to us a little bit about the target event rate in that study? And just update us on what your expectations are for the baseline LDL? And when you talk about that could you confirm that the baseline LDL is on a maximized statin background? And then lastly can you just help us better understand in the evolving pricing environment what do you think are the thresholds of benefit that are going to be necessary for you to show to really achieve an appropriate payment scheme for the anti-NGF therapy? Thanks a lot.
Dave I think probably the second question the third are up your alley.
I would say Seamus - this is Phil - we have not yet published the design paper for the accelerate trial of evacetrapib.
I think we were close to doing that last year but when the improvement data came out as Dave mentioned earlier we wanted to make sure that we could fully analyze that and take into consideration how that might impact if at all the trial design for accelerate.
As you've now seen that has impacted resulted in an additional six-month extension of the study to accrue additional events and additional late events.
So Dave if you could maybe start off talking about the stuff that you can target event rates baseline LDL and if it was on a mac statin background and then talk a bit about the pricing environment as you see it for the anti-NGF.
And then we'll come back to your first question Seamus on in particular Phase II data could read out this and more broadly data readouts that you should have on your radar screen for the balance of 2015.
Dave? As it relates to the target event rates and specifics about the population in the accelerate program I know we've said this before but we're anticipating publishing a design paper for accelerate which will include those details.
So until that is published it's probably not appropriate to comment further.
I will only generally say that accelerate is a study designed to study secondary prevention in high-risk vascular disease and as a result we're expecting a decent event rate in this population.
And in fact that's what we're observing having enrolled it.
The details of that again we'll be publishing in the forthcoming Journal.
As relates to NGF and tanezumab in the pricing scheme we're not going to be able to go into the detail on that here but I think Jan touched on this earlier that we see chronic-pain management different from acute-pain management.
Chronic-pain management is a very significant unmet need particularly in the United States.
The patients that will be targeted with tanezumab will be patients who have exhausted other pain- management options.
And other more significant interventions the likely next step in their disease course and we think in this space there's creation both for pharmaceutical but in the health system itself not to mention the side effect and addiction issues for the current therapies [Technical Difficulty] program pretty substantial at that size in this - we think there's clearly a place a place where - can be reimbursed in chronic pain management.
No I wrote down the questions here but question on baseline LDL the baseline LDL is just to confirm in accelerate [Technical Difficulty] publish that number but patients enroll on the maximum tolerated dose of the stat.
Thanks Dave.
Seamus let me start with some of the trial readouts that you should be expecting and/or detailed data presentations that we think you'd have on your radar screen.
And then Jan Sue Enrique or Dave if there are other Phase II readouts that you want to highlight please do so.
So as Derica mentioned at the ADA meeting this year we would expect to have detailed data from a large number of the Phase III trials for our basal insulin peglispro.
We also hope in the middle part of this year in the summer to have the first detailed Phase III data disclosures for both ixekizumab and for baricitinib respectively in psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis.
Recall as well Enrique mentioned the CD outcomes trial for Jardiance that we expect around the middle part of the year and then the solanezumab extension data from the two-year data we would expect to be presented at the medical meeting this year as well.
If you think about some of the additional top lines or yet to read out probably the main one or ones that I would highlight for you would be the latter part of the when we expect to have data from the remaining two of the four main pivotal trials for baricitinib in rheumatoid arthritis.
We've also talked about moving over a 2 Mab or 3G-3 into Phase III trials in soft tissue sarcoma and would hope at an upcoming medical meeting to have some of the detailed data presented to allow you to see our reason for optimism with that drug.
Clearly ASCO would be a great venue for us to do that.
With that let me turn it over to Jan or the other business unit presidents if there is additional readouts that you'd like to highlight.
I think I've hit them all but..
I think you have.
We'll move on the line of Emil Devan with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
This is Ari Jahja on behalf of Emil Devan.
Thanks for taking the questions.
I have a few here first on the Animal Health business.
Can you talk about the pricing environment for food and companion Animal Health products and outlook longer term? And then secondly on baricitinib we've now seen some initial Phase IIb data from [indiscernible] competing [indiscernible].
How do you see baricitinib's profile stacking up now against competitors? And when should we expect to see additional detailed data from the program? Thank you.
Jeff if you'd like to handle the first question on Animal Health pricing and then Dave back across the pond to you for baricitinib? The pricing environment overall remains stable in Animal Health.
We saw last year as you know 4% increase in our business.
Industry averages have been between 2% and 3% and I believe that we've got different economic conditions across geographies and species but a pretty stable market so I would see it in the range of this industry average of between 2% and 3%.
So baricitinib we're right in the middle of Phase III readouts.
As Phil mentioned previously the first two studies we have toplined already.
And you should expect to see some of that data presented at EBAR coming up in the middle of the year.
This would be the beacon and build studies.
Additionally we have an early RA study and then a first line biologic comparative study which is fully powered noninferiority against agumenubab Both of those studies what we've said is in the second half of this year will be topline in those.
So exciting year for baricitinib and then sort shortly following all that we'll be submitting to FDA and other and other global regulators.
In terms of how we compare our results to others of course it's not appropriate to make direct - there are no direct comparison studies between topacitnin and baricitinib or the recent Galapagos data but I think we've said all along we'd like the Jack 1-2 signaling pathway particularly in RA and we feel like baricitinib has the chance to be the best in class product if you think of this as one whole class.
And so far we're pleased with the results from the studies we have read out.
We will go to the line of Kathy Miner of Cowen and Company.
Please go ahead.
Just two topics.
First on ixekizumab can you comment - I think on clinicaltrials.gov it shows that the trials for ankylosing spondylitis was withdrawn.
Can you comment whether you're still pursuing that indication? And also recently we've seen some topline data from one of your competitors which had some very strong PASI 100 scores.
Is that something mechanistically there's differences between these products? Or how can we look at that? And second question is just on guidance for 2015.
I appreciate you've had a very strong first quarter and there were some timing issues and also you've highlighted very clearly the currency impacts going forward.
But can you tell us whether Lilly has ever changed annual guidance in the first quarter historically? Thank you.
Dave if you could comment on the ixekizumab questions.
And Derica Derica we've got one finally for you on financials.
If you want to talk about the guidance? Dave? Sure.
Thank you for the question on ixekizumab.
To clarify the ankylosing spondylitis study that was withdrawn was originally designed to be a supportive study for exposure through the PSA program as we were several years ago and as we're midstream on the additional indication work for ixekizumab we changed the strategy and that supportive evidence wasn't required anymore under the approach.
So what we have with ixekizumab now is a complete set of studies in moderate to severe plaque psoriasis and cover 1-2-3 studies.
I'm not sure which competitor you're referring to on the PASI 100 scores but we're pretty impressed with our PASI 100 scores which as you know at the high end have achieved up to 41%.
And I think that's as good as I've seen but interested in - of course if you have other insights on that.
And [indiscernible] class we do have differences.
[indiscernible] which is now launched from Novartis in IL 17 A antibody to the protein so are we whereas others have taken different approaches notably the antigen approach which is a receptor antibody.
So it would be not unexpected to have slightly different types of clinical results and safety profiles as a result of those differences.
In terms of other things around ixekizumab we recently toplined our first psoriatic arthritis study and we have another psoriatic arthritis study ongoing.
And as it relates to an aspect your original question we remain interested in this indication and we think turning to IL 17 is a logical step and could advance care for this very debilitating condition.
As for our guidance this year historically yes we have; it has happened.
I would say it's not common.
But we do look at it each and every quarter to see if there's anything meaningful enough to cause us to move our estimates.
As I stated earlier in my opening remarks we're off to a very good start to the year.
Despite the FX headwinds we're driving volume growth in those areas we had anticipated at least versus our internal expectations.
And that coupled with the good cost-containment efforts really is driving our strong bottom-line performance.
And as importantly we do expect to return to growth for the year this year in 2015.
So we're very encouraged by our start to the year and we'll keep you updated as we progress through the remaining months.
And we will go to the line of back to David Risinger of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead sir.
Sorry about that earlier.
So I have three questions.
First with respect to the two-year extension Sola data that's forthcoming could you just please provide a framework for us for what data set we should be expecting? How you might carve out the mild patients? Any caveats that you would highlight before we see the data? Second with respect to glargine could you remind us your timing for launch in Europe and in the U.S.? And then on the Erbitux deal Derica maybe you could just explain some of the income statement mechanics we should be thinking about for late this year? And then the accretion from that deal in 2016? Thanks very much.
Dave Ricks if you could talk about the two-year extension how people should be thinking about that? Both the general framework of what they might be expecting to see in the data or what we'd like to be seeing in the data? We'll be carving out mild patients and any caveats to be provided.
Enrique over to you for the timing for launch for glargine both U.S.
and EU.
And then Derica if you want to comment on the Erbitux mechanics.
If not I can chime in as well.
So Dave over to you first.
We said previously we'd be hoping to disclose that data middle of this year.
The two-year extension from EXPEDITION 1 and 2 we have disclosed at CCAD November 14 some of the earlier data and just on limitations just a few comments.
Of course this is open label data.
It's a progressive and significant disease burden on the patients.
So you never get 100% completing all the way through and probably most importantly patients in EXPEDITION 1 and 2 were not deselected for lack of amyloidosis.
And so we still have a mixed-cause dementia in the study which of course we've corrected in EXPEDITION 3.
That said I think there is two primary effects one we would hope to see to answer the question did you see disease modification in the controlled phase of EXPEDITION 1 and 2? And we will be focused on the mild patients.
You'll see that broken out.
One is that there's no catch-up meaning that if you start later you can get to the same point.
I think one definition of disease modification is that it's a daily progression and therefore starting earlier is better.
But I think then you'd also hope to see that the later-started patients would also follow a parallel curve of decay to those who are on the drug the whole time so there is a drug effect.
And in a sense one could say we didn't just get lucky with randomization in the first set of studies.
So those are two comments and color to frame what we'll see in July.
Sure.
So when it comes to glargine we're anticipating launching in Europe late in the summer of this year.
And in the U.S.
as you are aware we're subject to a 30-month stay.
We do have a trial happening later this year in the month of September.
Assuming of course that we have a favorable resolution of that trial prior to the 30-month stay we would be launching earlier.
But the 30-month stay basically takes us into Q3 of 2016.
Dave on Erbitux it might be helpful to review really quickly the current accounting.
So essentially when you look at things like our investor workbook we post on the website and look at the detailed product revenue tab you'll see that there are two different lines.
One is for the net revenue that we book which is essentially 39% of the revenue that actually is sold for example by Bristol offset by some of the third-party royalty obligations that exist.
And then you'll see a second line which is the sale of bulk product to Bristol for which we've booked the cost of sales in our cost of sales as well.
That sales number for the API that we produced and the cost of sales are not largely different numbers.
As you think about going forward once we transition the product back to Lilly from Bristol we will sell to end customers and book the full sales.
We will have no longer any kind of bulk sales out to them so the full cost of bulk will hit our cost of sales and we'll also have the finished cost of sales through third parties that Bristol currently would show on their income statement.
We'll also have additional selling marketing and R&amp;D expenses related to ongoing supportive brand.
And then on a GAAP basis we would also have amortization of intangible.
And I'm not sure exactly which line that hits.
I think it's likely going to be hitting our cost of sales line for our reported or GAAP results.
There are likely to be some other accounting-related effects that could happen essentially as we're monitoring over time and truing up the asset that has been created as well as the liability that has been created as part of the essentially business combination type accounting that was applied for this particular business development deal.
But the major effects I believe are the ones I just outlined for you.
We would expect it to be accretive starting in 2016.
I'm not in a position at this point in time to quantify how much.
I would underscore that the basis for the deal really is value as the long-term owners for the asset [indiscernible] originally scheduled to come back to us in late 2018.
We believe we're best-positioned to be the stewards of it up until that time and overall this should allow us to drive better value for the company for the life of the assets.
So the benefits of it coming back to you - in think you said late 2018 basically are shifting forward to 2016? That's correct but there is a different set of economics that will govern those two periods.
Since Bristol had a larger economic right through the end or near the end of 2018 we'll have different economics between now and September of 2018.
After September of 2018 both currently under the existing agreement as well as under the revised agreement once it's implemented we have full North American rights with no trailing obligations to Bristol.
We do have a follow-up from the line of John Boris with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Just on evacetrapib just has to do mechanistically and also in your clinical plan you're capturing high vis data.
Can you maybe address the HDL elevation component and whether you're going for a slowing of the progression or reversal of the regression or reversal of the accumulation of plaque in the arteries? And then any animal model data that potentially substantiates what you're doing on the ivis side? Crestor [ph] is one of the few molecules that have been able to get - slow up the progression in their label from using [Technical Difficulty] but just your commentary on that would be helpful.
Dave if you want to answer? And obviously Jan you're probably well-positioned to provide some comments as well.
Dave? Sure.
And Jan please jump in.
Of course all along we've been saying with this program we've powered it based on the LDL impacts and what you're expecting around 30%.
However we also believe that at very high levels of HDL reduction can impact cardiovascular risk.
And of note at the recent cardiovascular meeting in San Diego in March Dan Raider's lab presented some interesting data regarding cholesterol eflux with evacetrapib which demonstrated a very substantial degree of eflux out of the plaque to the macrophage back to the liver of cholesterol.
And this is the mechanistic underpinning for believing in the type of HDL raising we're providing being additive to that cardiovascular event reduction.
Off-line we can refer you to that paper John.
Jan do you have anything else to add? No.
And then one follow-up then for Dave's question.
My counterpart over at Bristol-Myers Squibb John Elicher would probably want me to point out that there will be during this period on Erbitux from Q4 this year through late 2018 a payment that we will be making to Bristol-Myers Squibb.
I believe subsequently they'll be disclosing the amount of that payment with their SEC filing and that payment for us would show up in cost of sales.
We have no further questions in queue.
Excellent.
Thank you.
Derica if you'd like to close the call? Thanks Phil.
We appreciate your participation in today's earnings call and your interest in Eli Lilly and Company.
Please note that we'll host a call from ADA on Sunday evening June 7 to provide an update on our diabetes business.
And do keep an eye out for conference calls later this summer to discuss Phase III data for both ixekizumab and baricitinib.
Finally if you have questions we did not address during today's call please contact our IR team and they'll be happy to help.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 11.30 a.m.
Eastern time today running through midnight on May 23.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 356843.
International participants may dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers again are 1-800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 with the access code of 356843.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Q2 2015 Earnings Call.
At this time all participant lines are in a listen-only mode and later there will be an opportunity for your questions.
Instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to John Lechleiter.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us for Eli Lilly &amp; Company's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
I'm John Lechleiter Lilly's Chairman President and CEO.
Joining me on today's call are Derica Rice our Chief Financial Officer; Dr.
Jan Lundberg President of Lilly Research Laboratories; Dr.
Sue Mahoney President of Lilly Oncology; Enrique Conterno President of Lilly Diabetes; Dave Ricks President of Lilly Biomedicines; Chito Zulueta President of Emerging Markets; Jeff Simmons who is President of Elanco Animal Health; and Ilissa Rassner Brad Robling and Phil Johnson of Lilly's IR team.
We're also joined by Dr.
Eric Siemers.
Eric is a distinguished medical fellow for our Alzheimer's disease team.
He is dialing in from Washington where he is attending the Alzheimer's Association International Conference.
During this conference call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on slide three and those outlined in our latest Forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
Lilly's positive momentum continued in the second quarter as we delivered solid underlying business performance with productivity improvements driving bottom line leverage with double-digit operating income and EPS growth.
And we again saw significant pipeline progress including multiple regulatory approvals and submissions along with positive Phase II and Phase III data readouts.
As usual I will begin today's call by highlighting key events that have occurred since our first quarter earnings call in late April.
We've seen advances on a number of fronts.
Starting with commercial milestones.
In Japan we began promotion of Cyramza for gastric cancer.
The gastric cancer indication in this market represents a significant opportunity for this product.
Here in U.S.
we began a promotion of Cyramza for second line metastatic colorectal cancer following FDA approval of this indication day after our last earnings call.
On the regulatory front we achieved a number of milestones.
In diabetes we received approval in Japan for Trulicity our once weekly GLP-1 receptor agonist for the treatment of Type II diabetes.
We also received FDA approval for Humalog U-200 KwikPen for the treatment of Type I and Type II diabetes.
In collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim we received European commission approval for Synjardy.
This is a single-pill therapy that combines empagliflozin and metformin for the treatment of adults with Type II diabetes.
Here in the U.S.
the FDA issued a complete response letter for Synjardy and Boehringer Ingelheim has already submitted their response.
We're pleased the resubmission was granted a two-month review and we're hopeful we'll be able to bring this product to market in the U.S.
yet this year.
Moving to oncology as I mentioned a moment ago we received FDA approval for Cyramza in second line metastatic colorectal cancer.
We also completed our submission for the same indication in Japan.
In addition the FDA Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee ODAC reviewed the data supporting our submission for necitumumab in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin for us increase first-line treatment of patients with advanced squamous non-small cell lung cancer.
We were encouraged by the constructive discussion on the benefit risk profile of necitumumab.
We believe necitumumab represents a meaningful advancement in treatment.
And moving to our Biomedicines business we submitted Ixekizumab in Europe for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis following our U.S.
submission in the first quarter.
Clearly this continues to be an exciting and busy time for our regulatory colleagues across the globe.
On the clinical front we presented detailed Phase III data on three different molecules and highlighted these data on investor calls.
First was the presentation of Phase III data for basal insulin PEG lispro in patients with Type I and Type II diabetes at the ADA meeting.
As we've stated in the past we decided to delay regulatory submission to generate additional safety-related data.
Next was the presentation of data from the first two of our four pivotal trials for baricitinib in rheumatoid arthritis at the U.R.
[ph] in Rome.
We're are encouraged by the Phase III data we've seen to date and we look forward to the data readouts from the final two pivotal trials later this year.
Last was the presentation of Phase III data for Ixekizumab in moderate to severe plaque psoriasis at the World Congress of Dermatology meeting.
We believe Ixekizumab has demonstrated a compelling risk profile in clinical work to date and that Ixekizumab could help patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis better manage their disease and improve their quality of life.
Further we believe that the level of efficacy and the safety profile demonstrated by biologic agents targeting IL-17A in psoriasis represent a meaningful improvement to currently available therapeutic options and could be a catalyst for greater use of biologics in the treatment of this disease.
Just yesterday at the Alzheimer's Association International Conference we presented two-year extension data from the Expedition Ext trial.
We believe the data are consistent with a potential disease modifying effect of solanezumab on underlying disease progression and we look forward to completion of the Expedition 3study in late 2016.
Apart from these Phase III data disclosures we also had some earlier data presentations that garnered investor interest.
Specifically at the ASCO meeting we presented Phase II data for Olaratumab in soft tissue sarcoma.
While at the American Headache Society meeting we presented initial Phase IIb data on our CGRP monoclonal antibody in episodic migraine.
We're enthusiastic about the opportunity for both of these molecules.
Derica will provide an important update Olaratumab later in the call.
On the business development front we announced five oncology deals spanning collaborations with AstraZeneca BioNTech Dana-Farber Cancer Institute Sarah Cannon Research Institute and Immunocore.
This is consistent with comments that we made earlier this year that you should expect to see us increase the level of our business development activity through partnerships licensing and acquisitions at ever earlier stages of development.
In addition we struck a deal with Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute in the area of immunology and we announced a sales collaboration in Japan with Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma for Trulicity.
In other news we received a positive ruling from the U.K.
Court of Appeal which held that the Alimta vitamin regimen patent would be indirectly infringed by a generic competitor.
This ruling reversed the initial U.K.
court's decision granting declarations of non-infringement in France Italy and Spain.
We announced plans to establish a new drug delivery and device innovation center in Cambridge Massachusetts.
The Lily Cambridge Innovation Center in Kendall Square will help attract top scientists and bioengineers as well as enhance our business development presence in the Boston area.
And just this morning we announced plans to effectively double our research presence at our Lilly Biotechnology Center in San Diego California.
On the financial side we took advantage of very low European interest rates to issue €2.1 billion of debt while retiring $1.65 billion of higher coupon U.S.
debt.
Finally in the second quarter we repurchased $125 million of stock leaving $3.3 billion remaining on our $5 billion plan.
In addition during the second quarter we distributed over $500 million to shareholders via our dividend.
We remain committed to providing a robust dividend and to returning excess cash to shareholders via share repurchase.
And now I'll turn the call over to Phil for a discussion of our financial performance for the quarter.
Thanks John.
Before I discuss our Q2 results it may be helpful to review some key features of our presentation of GAAP results and non-GAAP measures.
When interpreting our GAAP results and the growth rates versus 2014 keep in mind that 2014 does not include Novartis Animal Health while 2015 includes the operating results of this business as well as all the costs associated with the acquisition.
For our non-GAAP measures we now exclude amortization of intangibles and to provide you a better idea of the underlying trends in our business we've adjusted our non-GAAP measures for 2014 to exclude the expense associated with amortization of intangibles and to include Novartis Animal Health as if we had closed the acquisition on January 1 of 2014.
This places 2014 on the same basis upon which we're reporting financials this year.
Now let's look at our results for the quarter.
Slide eight provides a summary of our GAAP results.
I'll focus my comments on our non-GAAP adjusted measures to provide insights into the underlying trends in our business please.
So please refer to today's earnings press release for a detailed description of the year-on-year changes in our second quarter GAAP results.
Moving to slide nine you can see that Q2 revenue was nearly $5 billion.
The decrease of 4% compared to Q2 2014 reflects significant foreign exchange headwinds.
Excluding FX our Q2 revenue [indiscernible] on a non-GAAP basis.
As we discussed before this year we will feel the negative effect of the loss of U.S.
exclusivity for Cymbalta and Evista.
This quarter sales of those two products in the U.S.
declined by over $110 million.
Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates and Cymbalta and Evista in the U.S.
the rest of our worldwide revenue increased 6% this quarter.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue increased 2.5 percentage points going from 76.7% to 79.2%.
This increase was driven by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates on international inventories sold which increased cost of sales in Q2 last year but decreased cost of sales in Q2 this year.
Excluding this FX effect our gross margin percent declined by one percentage point going from 77.2% in last year's quarter to 76.2% this quarter.
As on prior calls you'll see a supplementary slide providing our gross margin percent for the last 10 quarters with and without this FX effect.
We continue to drive productivity improvements across our business.
Total operating expense defined as the sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A declined by 7% or over $200 million compared to Q2 2014.
Marketing selling and administrative expenses declined 8% while R&amp;D declined 5%.
The reduction in marketing selling and administrative expenses was due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates cost reductions in the combined Animal Health organization and ongoing cost containment efforts across Lily partially offset by marketing expenses to support recent product launches.
The reduction in R&amp;D expense was driven primarily by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates.
As implied by our full-year guidance we do expect the level of R&amp;D spend to be higher for the remainder of the year as we start Phase II trials for files for tonizimab [ph] our CGRP monoclonal antibody olaratumab and additional indications for Cyramza.
Other income and expense was income of $29 million this quarter and our tax rate was 20.8% a decrease of 2.3 percentage points compared to the same quarter last year.
This decrease is primarily due to a discrete tax benefit realized this quarter.
Also our tax rate in both periods did not include the benefit of certain U.S.
tax provisions including the R&amp;D Tax Credit as those provisions had lapsed.
At the bottom line net income increased 20% while earnings per share increased 22% reflecting the benefit of our share repurchase.
Slide 10 contains non-GAAP adjusted information for the first half of the year while slide 11 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS and you'll find additional details on these adjustments on slide 21.
Now let's take a look at the effect of price rate and volume on revenue.
On slide 12 in the yellow box at the bottom of the page you'll see the total revenue decline of 4% on a non-GAAP basis that I mentioned earlier.
The significant strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against many foreign currencies drove this decline as you see the 8% negative effect from FX this quarter with a favorable volume effect of 3% and favorable price effect of 1%.
By geography you'll notice that U.S.
pharma revenue increased 3% driven by price partially offset by volume.
And international operations Australia Canada and Europe or ACE you'll see that there was a decline in revenue of 19% that was almost entirely driven by the negative effect of foreign exchange while on a constant currency or performance basis ACE revenue decreased just 1%.
This decrease was driven by a substantial reduction in European Cymbalta sales resulting from a loss of data package exclusivity.
In Japan pharma revenue increased 14% in total while on a constant currency or performance basis increased 37%.
The size of this increase was influenced by a weak comparison period.
Recall that in Q1 2014 we experienced substantial wholesaler buying in advance of an increase in the local consumption tax which led to corresponding reduction in wholesaler buying in Q2 2014.
Consequently the performance growth of 10% for the first half of this year is more reflective of the underlying trends in Japan.
Turning to emerging markets we saw a revenue decline of 15% driven by a negative foreign exchange effect of 12%.
On a performance basis emerging market sales declined 4% driven by lower sales in China and the negative effect of the Brazil Humulin tender we had last year.
This quarter our pharma revenue in China declined 16% driven by lower volume.
On a non-GAAP basis which adjusts 2014 as if we'd completed the Novartis Animal Health acquisition on January 1 of that year Alanco Animal Health declined 4%.
Excluding the negative effect of foreign exchange Alanco revenue increased 3%.
Moving to slide 14 you'll see the effective changes in foreign exchange rates on our Q2 2015 results.
This quarter as mentioned earlier FX was a top line headwind reducing revenue in U.S.
dollars by eight percentage points.
In terms of cost of goods sold however FX provided a substantial benefit which led to FX having essentially no impact on operating income and EPS.
At the bottom of the slide you can see that our non-GAAP EPS in the second quarter grew 22% with and without FX.
Slide 15 shows our pipeline as of July 20 with changes since our last earnings call highlighted green arrows showing progression and red arrows showing attrition.
In terms of advancement you'll see that our CGRP monoclonal antibody has moved into Phase III with initiation of pivotal trials in cluster headache.
And we initiated Phase II testing for an oncology molecule.
We also terminated element of our oral glucagon receptor antagonist for diabetes in Phase II as well as for five Phase I molecules.
With that update I'll now turn the call over to Derica.
Thanks Phil.
As on our prior calls I'll recap the progress we've made on the key events we've projected for 2015 and then review our 2015 financial guidance.
Turning to slide 16 you'll see that a majority of events anticipated for 2015 have already occurred in the first six months of the year with the vast majority being positive.
Since our last earnings call we've achieved a number of additional milestones.
We initiated Phase III trials for Cyramza in both first-line EGFR mutation positive non-small cell lung cancer and in second-line urothelial cancer as well as for our CGRP monocolonal antibody in cluster headache.
As John mentioned earlier we had a number of detailed disclosure at medical meetings for basal insulin PEG lispro baricitinib ixekizumab and solanezumab.
You will also see that we updated the regulatory submissions category to reflect Japanese submission for ramucirumab for second-line metastatic colorectal cancer and European submission of ixekizumab for psoriasis.
As we announced on our ixekizumab investor call we've added an event to our key event list for the simultaneous submission of ixekizumab in Japan for both psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis.
Earlier John mentioned the presentation at ASCO of the Phase II for Olaratumab in soft tissue sarcoma.
These data were compelling and included a 10-month overall survival benefit in patients in the treatment arm that received Olaratumab.
I'm pleased to announce that based on the ongoing discussions with the FDA we intend to submit U.S.
and European regulatory applications for Olaratumab in soft tissue sarcoma based on these data or based on these Phase II data.
We hope to complete the U.S.
submission before the end of 2015.
As a result you'll see a new item on our list of key events to reflect this positive development.
In addition the FDA has granted a Olaratumab breakthrough designation.
We're pleased that Olaratumab is the third in-clone molecule following Cyramza and ixekizumab that has generated promising clinical data and that could help patients with cancer live longer.
You will also see new checkmarks to reflect three approvals John discussed earlier: Japanese approval for ramucirumab in second-line gastric cancer and dulaglutide Type II diabetes.
And in the U.S.
approval for Humalog U-200 KwikPen.
Finally in the other section you'll see the green checkmarks for the positive Alimta ruling from the U.K.
Court of Appeal and we now have a date in mid for mid-November for the appeals hearing at the European patent office.
We noted in the past that 2015 is another year where we're focused on demonstrating successful execution of our innovation-based strategy.
We're pleased with the progress we made in the past few years and so far this year and believe this progress solidifies our near to medium-term growth prospects.
Turning to our 2015 financial guidance we've raised the bottom end of our revenue range to reflect the solid underlying performance for the first six months of the year and the launch trajectories of Jardiance Trulicity and Cyramza.
We've also modestly increased the range for our non-GAAP other income to reflect net gains on investments realized to date and added a new line for GAAP other income that reflects the debt repurchase charge.
To reflect the discrete tax benefit booked in Q2 we've reduced our non-GAAP tax rate by about 50 basis points.
And our GAAP tax rate also reflects the impact of the debt repurchase and the BioNTech charges.
At the bottom line we've raised our non-GAAP EPS range by $0.10 and now forecast full-year non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $3.20 to $3.30 per share.
Our new GAAP EPS range of $2.20 to $2.30 per share has been updated for this same $0.10 increase as well as the Q2 charges we booked for the debt repurchase and the BioNTech deal.
Finally I want to point out that we own shares of Receptos and you've undoubtedly seen Celgene's offer to buy receptors for $232 per share.
At this time it is not clear to us when a deal may get done and we've not made a determination of what we will do with our shares.
We'll monitor this situation and we will incorporate any necessary changes into our future guidance updates.
In summary while our second quarter revenue reflects the impact of foreign exchange headwinds and the lingering effects of U.S.
patent expirations for Cymbalta and Evista we remain on track to return to growth in 2015 driven by excellent progress in our innovation-based strategy.
We had solid underlying business performance and our continued focus on productivity and cost controls drove strong leverage at the bottom line while providing the capacity to fully invest in our new product launches and to pursue additional promising pipeline opportunities.
This solid business performance was the primary driver for increasing our non-GAAP EPS guidance.
With tangible results from our innovation-based strategy we aim to drive revenue growth and expand margins throughout the balance of this decade.
As we discussed in the past you'll see sharpen our focus on areas where we're best positioned to compete and win and we'll continue to find ways to increase productivity and do the work of pharmaceutical R&amp;D better.
This concludes our prepared remarks and I'll turn the call over to Phil to moderate the Q&amp;A session.
Phil? Great.
Thank you Derica.
Leah [ph] if you could provide instructions for the Q&amp;A session we'll get started with caller's questions.
Certainly.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from the line of Seamus Fernandez with Leerink.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for the question.
So congratulations on a strong quarter.
Derica maybe you can just or overall if you guys can give us your thoughts on how you see the progression of Alimta sales outside of the U.S.
going forward? Sort of if we just kind of exclude the competitive landscape and think about it independent just with the court rulings how you see that going forward and what amount of sales is actually reflected and represented by that how durable you think that is? The second question so as we think about the evacetrapib opportunity if you guys could give us any additional color you could provide on the number of events the powering of the study? I know you said 15% power in the past but historically when we've seen studies like this it's conservatively powered.
So 15% at 95% or 98% reduction would imply somewhere between 1 400 and 1 600 events.
So it would be really helpful to understand how conservatively powered your 15 assumption is on evacetrapib? And then lastly on all Olaratumab just in terms of the market opportunity in soft tissue sarcoma can you just give us a quick update on your thoughts there in terms of the patient size in the U.S.
and then also globally? Thanks a lot.
Great Seamus.
Thank you for the questions.
I'll go ahead and actually provide some context on your first question on Alimta O-U.S.
and some of the exposures there.
And then Dave if you'll talk about the second question for that evacetrapib powering? And then Sue if you'll handle the Olaratumab question? So Seamus for O-U.S.
if we go back to the guidance call early January we had mentioned that last year we had about $880 million in Alimta sales in Europe.
We'd indicated that about $80 million of that amount would already be subject to loss of exclusivity in markets where we did not have the compound patent or the longer dated vitamin dose regimen patent.
Of the remaining $800 million about $175 million was represented by Germany with the rest being the other European countries of which France is the largest by far followed by Germany and then Italy and Spain with U.K.
being clearly the smallest of them.
So hopefully as you're thinking about rulings we've had so far in Germany and rulings out of the U.K.
court that provides you some basis to understand the level of exposure that's there.
For Japan I don't have last year's number but I do have this quarter's number in front of me since we also have litigation ongoing in Japan.
We have $67 million in Q2.
We had $57 million of Alimta revenue in Japan in Q1.
The emerging markets business is a similar size to Japan where we had about $63 million in revenue this quarter and about $63 million last quarter as well.
So the major exposure really is for O-U.S.
the European both litigation in specific countries that's ongoing and as mentioned on the call earlier the outcome of the European patent office appeal hearing that will occur in November.
Dave? Sure.
Yeah Seamus thanks for the question on anacetrapib.
What we've said in the past is we're powered to show the effect size on LDL alone.
And so your range there is about right.
I don't think we've got into the exact number of events and I would remind the investors we extended the trial by six months which is part of our Q1 communication which actually adds to the event total that we'll see.
So in a sense that may increase the powering of the study although not markedly.
So the study was designed to show an effect on LDL alone.
Using the Oxford curve [ph] that we've seen play out through time we estimate about a 30% reduction in LDL so thus the mid-teens [indiscernible] outcome and that is looking at the quintuple endpoint.
We also have a minimal threshold for the triple hard end points of death MI and stroke.
And we believe we have ample events now as we look at the data coming in mid-next year.
Sue? Yeah.
And with regards to Olaratumab so the size of the market it's about 11 900 patients who are diagnosed with soft tissue sarcoma in the U.S.
For drug treatment there's about 5 800 and U.S.
And then O-U.S.
about 5 000 again.
I think the important thing here is that there really hasn't been anything approved or shown an overall survival advantage in about three decades in this tumor type.
So it's a big unmet need and we're very excited by the data that we have and the opportunity to bring Olaratumab hopefully to patients.
So we have announced that we'll be filing based on discussions with the FDA in the U.S.
and we also anticipate doing that in Europe too.
We also are planning to initiate a Phase III study over the next few months in Q3 and to do some pediatric studies.
So I have to say we're excited about the opportunity with this molecule.
Yeah.
Just a real quick add-on to that Seamus.
I think clearly and for good reason there's been a lot of interest in the investment community on immune-oncology agents that have shown durable responses for a number of patients.
While this is not in that nice shiny penny of immune-oncology the kind of benefit that we saw for overall survival is quite striking.
You're talking about 25 months of overall survival compared to 15 months on the comparator arm.
So while this is a smaller patient population an orphan drug essentially type of patient population we're very enthusiastic about the data we've shown to date.
Leah next caller please? And the next question is from the line of Tim Anderson from Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Mr.
Bernstein your line is excuse me Mr.
Anderson your line is open.
Yes.
Thank you.
A few questions.
On solanezumab obviously the AAIC data presented yesterday.
I'm wondering if you can talk about that in the context of Expedition 3and how you will be I should say how or whether you will be incorporating a delayed start design into that trial.
And really is that something that you would likely need for approval? Or is that something that could come later? In other words is it a regulatory necessity to show results on a delayed start design? Or is it more of a labeling matter? Second question is on Amyvid your AD imaging agent.
Kind of a rounding error commercially but it seems that PET imaging in the future could have some real value when it helps when it comes to kind of helping rule in Alzheimer's disease.
Is there an unappreciated commercial opportunity at some point in the future with the product? And then last question just on diabetes.
If I look at sales levels of various products it seemed to track below what I would've expected in different geographies and I'm wondering if that speaks to an increased level of price erosion that might've impacted results? Great Tim.
Thanks for the questions.
Dave if you can handle the solanezumab Expedition 3and Amyvid questions? And then Enrique the diabetes question.
And obviously Chito if you want to make any comments on the growth in emerging markets with diabetes products please do chime in.
Dave? Great.
Thanks Tim for the questions.
I'll try to handle these and if I get in trouble my experts also online can help.
First regarding the data we showed yesterday on the Expedition Ext or extension study this is a very long-term set of data with the drug effect in Alzheimer's.
And I think we're pleased to see that the safety of the product continues to look very good in this population.
We're happy that the delayed start impact we had hoped to see was displayed and that the later patients coming on to sola after the 18-month blinded period did in fact not catch up as tested statistically but also numerically visible and that the treatment effect appeared to persist.
So on the back of that though it's important to note that that's only important if Expedition 3is positive.
This does not represent a basis for submission or - because it's not a blinded assessment.
But I think those are encouraging signs for us.
And as you know and we've said many times on calls like this we think included a number of features in Expedition 3 which give us a good shot to really thoroughly test the question of solanezumab in mild patients including your question on PET screening.
So I'll jump to that which is we believe it's essential to eliminate from these studies and in clinical practice to screen for amyloid in patient who have dementia to really define the underlying cause.
Of course that's consistent with Alzheimer's disease versus other types of dementia.
Right now Amyvid is available commercially in the U.S.
and many European markets.
It is not a major product for us today.
As you know it's not reimbursed by CMS in the U.S.
for instance.
I would frame this I guess in three ways.
It's useful for patients for treators and for our company.
Why is - sales would be expected to increase of Amyvid should disease modifying agents become available including solanezumab because I expect most of those labels and/or payer requirements will force patients to have confirmed amyloidosis to be eligible.
That's good news but probably still wouldn't be a massive undertaking in terms of revenue impact for the company.
But it's also important to look at the PET capabilities we have in two other frames.
One is as a drug development tool.
And really operationally being able to manage a clinical network a site that has ready access to the Amyvid PET has really helped us enroll studies quickly and make sure that we can scan patients in a timely way keep them in the study and synchronize that complicated machine that allows us to get Expedition 3done for instance and future studies like the base program with AZ.
And then finally and particularly for something like our Tau Tracer which is in Phase II these are very useful drug discovery and scientific tools to help us accelerate and make good decisions about earlier phase Alzheimer's programs.
So these are really essential parts of our total Alzheimer's vision and we'll talk more about that in December at our Investor Meeting focused on Alzheimer's.
Great.
Thank you.
Enrique? Sure.
So as we look at our diabetes business there were a number of one-time events that are impacting the quarter-to-quarter results and I thought first I would say that the underlying business fundamentals are good not just when it comes to volume.
But we've not seen any significant changes when it comes to contracting or additional price pressures over and above what we're seeing before.
Let me speak to Humalog for a second.
In Q2 of last year we had a significant adjustment related to positive adjustment related to managed Medicaid.
That was about five points in terms of the impact when we look at the compare of Q2 of 2015 versus Q2 of 2014.
We had a little bit of de-stocking also in the U.S.
as we look at Q2.
But as we look at the business fundamentals we continue to feel good about our prospects.
We also have some anomalies when it comes to Tradjenta and in this particular case there were two important adjustments that have been made over the last year or so.
We made an adjustment in Q3 of 2014 that basically a negative adjustment in Q3 of 2014 for Tradjenta sales because we had not accrued enough when it comes to our rebates.
We were getting more of our business coming from Medicare than we had initially estimated.
And then in Q2 of 2015 in Q2 of 2015 we had a negative adjustment.
In essence we had overstated some of our sales in the first half of 2014 and we have in a certain way understated our sales in the first half of 2015.
To make this simpler the bottom line is if we were to normalize for some of these onetime effects and we were to reassign the accruals to the right quarter our net sales would be growing in the case of Tradjenta in the U.S.
about 15%.
Clearly we have a very significant volume growth.
Great.
Leah next caller please.
And the next question is from the line of John Boris with SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the questions.
With the commercial launch activity heightened in Japan can you maybe just walk us through the opportunities for Cyramza Trulicity there and the type of pricing if you've received any innovation type pricing on Cyramza for gastric cancer there? Any relationship with Sumitomo with Trulicity and how you'll launch there? Second question on the CGRP antibody can you maybe just walk through what the significant points of differentiation are relative to [indiscernible] who also have competitive antibodies here? And with the rollout of this earlier than anticipated in cluster headaches just your thoughts on when you might be in a position to compete those clinicals? And then the third and final question for John Lechleiter just on the political front can you maybe address two issues that seem to be taking center stage in Washington most notably repatriation and your thoughts whether we're going to see something that happens their along with tax reform going forward? Thanks.
Great John.
Thanks for the questions.
You got a good smattering of the management team involved here so let's see Sue if you'll start off talking about Japan Cyramza how we'll proceed in that any update we've got on pricing there? We'll stick with Japan and move over to Enrique for comments on Trulicity including the recently announced partnership for the commercialization of the product there.
Dave for the CG3 monoclonal antibody questions and then John for the two last questions on repatriation and tax reform.
So Sue please start.
Yeah.
Sure.
Okay.
With Cyramza we actually launched Cyramza on the 22 of June and we do see this as a really good opportunity for Cyramza given the unmet need there is in Japan and given the number of patients who are treated in Japan with gastric cancer.
We estimate about 16 000 patients in Japan are treated in the second line gastric versus about 6 000 4 000 to 6 000 in the U.S.
So the opportunity there is great.
The feedback that we've got from thought leaders is good and the initial feedback from the sales force again is very positive.
So it's early days 22nd of June launch.
We did get a slight sales buy-in but clearly we'll be tracking the sales going forward.
From a price perspective yes we have got the price.
The bar price for the 500-milligram is ¥355 000 and for the 100-milligram is about ¥75 000.
So we'll give you the exact details on that but we feel good about the price we've got in Japan.
Great.
Enrique? Sure.
As we have said before when it comes to Trulicity overall expansion of the GLP-1 class is critical for us.
Just to quote a few numbers in the U.S.
when we look at new patient growth that number is now close to 50% five zero when we look at four weeks year-on-year or 13 weeks year-on-year.
So we're clearly very pleased with that.
When it comes to Japan this is even more true just because in Japan the GLP-1 class has the lowest penetration in Type II diabetes of any major market.
Now for us to accomplish this we have decided to partner with Dainippon Sumitomo in order to give us to have the appropriate reach when it comes to the small clinics.
And this is going to be critical for us.
Great.
Thank you.
Dave? Yeah.
So on CGRP we're excited about this program.
As was announced today we did initiate the cluster programs in both chronic and episodic in Q2.
We don't have an exact timing at this point for the readout.
It's enrollment dependent John.
But we would hope to be able to enroll those studies rapidly given the unmet need and then be able to submit those to regulators as quickly as possible.
We'll give updates as we begin to see a little bit more rate on that and you can look at ClinicalTrials.gov which we update religiously on these points.
That is one of the sources of differentiation we might see for our program versus others which is indications.
At this point I just want to emphasize that there's a big market.
There's about 14 million migrainers who could benefit from a preventative just in the U.S.
and CGRP neutralization appears to have a very profound and so far looks relatively safe method for alleviating the suffering from this condition.
So there's probably room for a number of players.
Really we're going to have to wait to see the Phase III programs play out and often things like dose selection and frequency et cetera will be different.
And we'll see who comes up with the best data package at the end.
Right now we're focused on execution and getting in the clinic with the Phase III program in the coming months and are excited by the recent Phase II readout we saw.
Jan do have anything to add on CGRP? I think we are seeing several antibodies having more or less similar results which I think is encouraging for the class as such.
And the studies have been somewhat different in relation to the number of migraine headache days that has been the focus.
Some studies have been episodic classical definition of 4 to 14 others have been 8 to 14 and there could potentially be a difference of the effects of these agents depending on how many migraine days you have.
But I think overall we are very encouraged about this class for this large indication in all aspects.
Great.
Thank you.
John? John thanks for your question.
I think speaking for Lilly in terms of the potential for tax reform we're encouraged by many of the recent soundings that have come from Washington.
We've been for as long as I've been CEO and I'm sure before that advocating for corporate tax reform.
We have an uncompetitive tax system in this country.
It puts American companies at a disadvantage.
It actually discourages investment in the United States.
So we would be very anxious to see a system that takes a territorial approach to taxation and as part of that if we enable some repatriation obviously we would be broadly in favor of that.
The devil is always the details but we're hopeful that short of comprehensive tax reform that current events the impetus for the Highway Trust Fund et cetera might spur action here.
And we're more than ready and willing to participate in a constructive discussion.
Great.
Thanks John.
Leah if we can go to the next caller.
Certainly.
And that is Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
John just a quick question for you.
You had mentioned in your prepared remarks your growing in trust in deal activity but mostly confined to partnerships licensing deals et cetera.
Can you elaborate a little further on that? And in your mind is there - does this mean that you're not going to make acquisitions but rather focus on partnerships licensing deals? And if you if the answer is you're not that you are interested in acquisition activity is there a limit as to how big you would go? And would you consider using your equity? Just given where your multiple is I would think that that would be something that would be advantageous to you now.
And then a question for you Derica.
You've previously guided to the FX benefit on gross margin this year to unwind next year assuming exchange rates remain constant.
Can you update us on what to expect in terms of the magnitude of that impact? Thanks very much.
Okay.
Jami I'll start off.
Thanks for the question.
I think what we called out at the beginning of the year was our sentiment favoring deals done at ever earlier stages.
I think this is not inconsistent with the trend you see in the industry.
I think in terms of later-stage deals or maybe even larger-size deals we're going to be guided first and foremost by the therapeutic categories where we've chosen to compete.
And again I think we sort of outlined that quite distinctly at the beginning of the year.
That would be diabetes oncology and neurodegeneration with emerging interest and presence in pain and in autoimmune disease again depending on the outcomes of clinical studies.
Obviously we filed ixekizumab.
We fully intend to move into that psoriasis angle from an autoimmune perspective once we gain approval for that molecule.
So if you go back and you look at the deals we've done since I became CEO in 2008 the ones that stand out obviously are ImClone.
We think we can have as many as three molecules from that then existing ImClone portfolio that will eventually be on the pharmacy shelf that augmented and supplemented a presence we already had in oncology.
The second biggest deal in that period of time was the Novartis Animal Health.
We have been buyers obviously on the animal health side going back at least to the deal with Monsanto to acquire BST in the middle of the last decade.
We very clearly aim to continue to build that business both through organic and inorganic means.
I mean in between you have a variety of smaller deals.
Abbott is a good example is a good example of a unique opportunity we saw to acquire technology that as Dave said earlier gives us a real boost and I think a competitive advantage in the Alzheimer's space.
I think in terms of thinking about what the magnitude of something Lilly might consider I think the Novartis ImClone deals kind of define that.
At the same time we're not anxious to go out and pay inflated prices for the hot property of the moment.
There's a bit of a I think a bit of a bubble right now with respect to valuations on some of the smaller companies or the smaller entities in biotech.
And I think it's better use of our better for our shareholders and better use of our shareholder's equity to focus and foremost on our internal efforts which are quite strong and I think quite robust in all these therapeutic areas and which we'll continue to augment and supplement aggressively by these earlier stage partnerships.
Thanks John.
Derica? Jami in regards to gross margin we've said that each quarter we try to neutralize the impact of FX in gross margin by the additional slide that we provide that kind of shows you the normal run rate.
And obviously this year we're running slightly above the mid-seventies.
But we said when we - when I think towards 2016 to focus you all you should be thinking about that 75% range of gross margin being net of FX.
Great Thanks Derica.
Leah next call please.
Next question is from the line for Mark Schoenebaum with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Hey John.
Hey guys.
Congratulations on the stock this year by the way.
I was intrigued by John's comments that there's a bit of a biotech bubble since I cover biotech as well.
That scared me.
You ruined my day.
But anyway actually I do have a question for John kind of building on John Boris' question.
Just and I know you're very tuned into Washington.
Just this general question this comes up all the time but I feel like the volumes just turned up a little bit on the price point for cancer drugs given the pace of innovation there.
I'd like to hear you kind of talk about your long-term view on that.
Not your one or two-year kind of view but maybe put on your 10-year cap and just kind of ask the question are the current price points for cancer drugs sustainable if the current pace of innovation continues? And how you think the industry is going to react to any pricing pressure you might see? And then just on ixekizumab the IL-17 antibody clearly the AstraZeneca Amgen announcement on - Amgen announced they were waiting for AstraZeneca.
But on their decision to pull out of the partnership because the side effect profile is a big positive for you guys.
I was just wondering if you could speak if you would be willing to speak in more quantitative terms of what that might mean.
Kind of how many patients you think will ultimately be on the drug et cetera? This looks to me like it could be a multi-billion-dollar addition to your out year numbers.
I just kind of want to know if I'm totally on the wrong track or not.
Thank you very much.
Mark thanks for the question.
So John if you'll start off and then we'll go to Dave for the ixekizumab question.
Hi Mark.
I'm sorry if I ruined your day.
I'll try to make it up in some way.
No problem.
Okay.
With respect to a lot of media attention and political kind of attention to the price point for cancer drugs look I think first and foremost up to the point where we have data which does not include this year we did a study that dates back to last year looking at the proportion of drug spend as part of total the cost of total cancer care.
It's remained remarkably consistent over a long period of time.
So put another way while today we hear a lot about the cost of cancer medicine I'm not sure I've ever heard anybody complain about the cost of that long stay in the hospital that many of our drugs these cancer drugs help to minimize or to eliminate and that's because hospital stays are covered by insurance.
I think the question is what's the cost to the patient and how can we ensure that more patients have access affordable access to cancer medicine just like they've got through their insurance policies affordable access today to other forms of care that are required for people with cancer.
In terms of how we look at this in the long haul I think we're going to have to wait and see how this plays out.
We're already seeing in many of these classes two or more competitors emerging.
We know in other classes of medicines the diabetes would be one example we're familiar with we see intense competition that has resulted in lower net effective prices based on negotiations that we must undertake with payers and insurers in that space.
Obviously we haven't sort of seen that play out in quite the same way in oncology but I think we should be encouraging innovation because innovation begets competition rather than discouraging innovation by threatening things like price cast et cetera.
For a cancer patient cancer medicines particularly some of these new what you might call breakthrough therapies that we all know about represent the highest quality and most medically effective approach we have in our material of any other intervention.
So the calling these out for being simply based on price fails to look at the incredible value that these drugs bring not in terms of avoiding or minimizing other system costs but in terms of getting patients that precious additional time and quality of life that is so important.
Great.
Thanks John.
Dave? Yeah.
So Mark thanks for the question on Ixekizumab was mentioned in the call text we submitted in the U.S.
and Europe and shortly in Japan and other major markets.
We're excited about the program.
In terms of our assets that's what we're focused on which is we see a drug here that is providing a whole new threshold of efficacy for patients suffering from moderate to severe plaque psoriasis.
We've reported PAZ-100 [ph] as high as 40% and PAZ-90 [ph] in sort of unprecedented range as well.
So we think we've got a great asset and we had a special call in June about this and answered a number of questions about the psychiatric safety and as we said then we don't see an imbalance numerically or statistically across arms whether they be active comparators or the two doses of Ixekizumab.
So we're proceeding through the regulatory process.
Of course we need to get through that with all the caveats.
In terms of the market opportunity in psoriasis depending on how you count it with PSA or not I think people would say there's a $4 billion to $6 billion opportunity right now globally and I would just point out that in our estimates less than the treatment rate with biologics in moderate to severe plaque psoriasis is probably less than half of RA.
So there's just a huge amount of possibility for growth of biologics as a class in the space.
Our vision for that is that the newer more effective therapies will be a great way to drive interesting greater treatment in dermatology community.
We think patients will demand it through time and the caveat there is of course the normal access and regulatory processes are what stands between us and that opportunity.
We don't know what will happen with the former Amgen asset.
We're focused on our program and we think there's ample growth for a number of assets in psoriasis and we like our product.
Thanks Dave.
Leah if we can go to the next caller.
Certainly.
It's the line of Chris Schott with J.P.
Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks very much for the questions.
Maybe the first one on solanezumab and more broadly in Alzheimer's.
I guess coming back from AIC some of the feedback from the meeting is that the ARIA signal seen in some competitive products is largely asymptomatic and maybe be able to be treated through.
I guess just being sure of your thoughts on ARIA and what that could mean for the competitive landscape.
And maybe just part of that answer if you could just talk a little bit more about you guys targeting monomer A-beta versus plaque given that you do have products going after both in the pipeline.
Second question was a longer-term question on diabetes.
There's been some market concern that this category only becomes more competitive over time and gets even more price pressure going forward.
You guys obviously have a differentiated portfolio but how do you think about the risk of an even more conservative payer environment in this category going for forward? Thanks very much.
Great Chris.
Thanks for the question.
So first for the Alzheimer's disease the ARIA signal and is this treatable [indiscernible].
Jan if you want to start out off with a few comments and Eric we may see if you have additional comments that you would like to add to that.
Jan certainly if you want to talk about sort of the plaque specific approach that we've got in the clinic and then Enrique for the price pressure in diabetes segment.
Jan? Yeah.
Well in relation to the ARIA signal that was reported I think first it's clear that Biogen has much more of that than solanezumab which I think is a key difference right now.
Secondly it was claimed that you can treat through it.
On the other hand Biogen also had dropouts I think to a large extent in the trial so it still needs to be seen in a larger situation than in phase 3 whether it really holds true and my view is that if you have an agent that doesn't have very much of this that that's a competitive advantage for solanezumab.
If you look at the types then of monomer AD antibodies versus plaque antibodies we have both two selective agents then in Lily.
Solanezumab targets then the monomer AD which is then a precursor in a way to the plaque.
We have an agent in phase 1 called N3pG which is a pyroglutamate plaque specific antibody.
And in preclinical experiments we have seen as a monotherapy for N3pG very good clearance then of amyloid deposits in transgenic models than of Alzheimer's disease in mice and it's even more efficacious if you combine it with an oral base inhibitor while you more or less have a total clearance of amyloid from these mice brains.
What we also have seen in the preclinical experiments for N3pG the plaque specific antibody that did not give micro hemorrhage which is kind of related to the ARIA signal out to brain edema that the Alzheimer patients have.
So we hope that we could have a plaque specific antibody with less impact then on the brain edema than what we currently see with a Biogen molecule.
Great.
And Eric do you have anything that you like to add for the discussion around the asymptomatic nature of our ability to treat et cetera that you feel has been adequately covered? Yeah.
Well I just briefly mention that I think these are relatively early days in terms of the field sort of understanding how that may be managed.
Fortunately with solanezumab we really haven't had to deal with the issue too much because it's just a half of percent in placebo treated and 1% in solanezumab treated without really any associated symptoms.
But for other molecules where you do have ARIA that may be asymptomatic in two-thirds of people but it's so asymptomatic than in one-third of the people.
So that's something that I think broadly in the field we'll just need to get more experience with.
Great Thanks Eric.
Enrique? Sure.
It's difficult to speculate when it comes to the payer environment on diabetes but I think it's helpful for us to be able to look back because that means because that was the first class in diabetes that was under pressure when it comes to the narrowing of formularies.
And that started sometime in 2009.
Through this period from 2009 to today what we have been able to see is that Humalog we've been able to have fairly stable net prices for Humalog over this period.
If anything they are slightly up but clearly not much.
So I would say that yes it is likely that there's going to be narrowing of formularies in other segments in the diabetes space.
But I do not expect a significantly different behavior when it comes to some of the net prices and Humulin insulin actually behaved.
So that's basically what I would offer there.
Great.
Thank you.
Leah can we move to the next caller please.
Certainly.
It's the line of Steve Scala with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I have three questions.
Even at the high end of your new EPS guidance range it implies a slightly down second half after a very strong first half.
Other than a tougher compare in Q4 what is driving the second half weakness? It seems like Lilly is setting up for a better-than-expected second half as well.
Secondly on Jardiance the CV [ph] outcomes data in Q3 since it is Q3 is the data in house? How will it be released? And Enrique are you anything but very confident in the data? And then lastly what does the lowering of the ADAS-Cog delta at the end of EXPEDITION 1 and 2 from the 2.01 to the 1.83 in July tell us about the patients enrolled and or how they changed over time? Thank you.
Great Steve.
Thank you for the questions.
So clearly Derica to you on the first question related to the guidance in the second half performance Enrique for the Jardiance CV [ph] outcomes and then Dave if you want to kick off the response for the ADAS-Cog question we received.
Derica? Good morning Steve.
We've had really solid underlying performance in the first six months of this year.
And we expect that that solid performance to continue for the second half of this year as well.
What you should see also in the second half of the year and I'm going to kind of reflect on some of the comments that Phil made in his remarks where in the second half we do expect to make incremental investments in our R&amp;D pipeline given the positive data readouts that we've seen.
So we talked about the start of phase 3 trials for tanezumab our CGRP monoclonal antibody laratumab as we highlighted earlier as well as the intent to invest in additional indications for Cyramza.
And as we continue to see more positive data readouts you'll see is fully investing in our pipeline opportunities.
At the same time as you heard Sue say we're in the midst of launching in Japan for Cyramza as well as the ongoing launches in other geographies.
So we will fully invest behind that as well.
So we really are expecting our top line momentum to continue.
You'll see us continue to drive productivity gains but what that does is it gives us the capacity to make these kinds of investments while still returning to growth this year and margin expansion.
Thanks Derica.
Enrique? Steve we expect to see the data this quarter to see the data soon.
As we have said once we have the opportunity to see the data we will issue a top line press release with the results.
We are planning to showcase those results in September at EASD but that's as much as I can share right now.
Great.
Thank you.
Dave? Yeah.
As it relates to the question of I guess the final endpoint displayed in the cooled mild EXPEDITION 1 and 2 two-and-a-half years ago versus what was displayed yesterday you're right there is a small difference.
I think that you mentioned it there.
In terms of what those absolute numbers are and the difference the reason for this and I'll try to put this in very lay terms is the statistical technique that is both preferred by the FDA sort of by consensus and we use in Alzheimer's studies is called MMRM.
It's different from other techniques you may have seen like LOCF.
What it does is it relies on all the data available to estimate the missing data.
And this technique is thought to reduce type I error.
That's what the FDA prefers.
It's a technique we used in both assessments that you're referring to.
Because the second assessment includes more data that is the continuing patients the number does move around slightly.
The core data underneath it is identical.
That data was locked in 2012 and it's the same data.
What we're doing is estimating missing data using this statistical technique.
So I'm not sure there's much news or read through with that but if you'd like to learn more Steve we could set up the background on why that occurs.
The bottom line take away is I think the same that there is a meaningful difference at the end of the 18 months and that difference persisted through the open label extension.
Great.
Thanks Dave.
Leah next caller please.
And the next question is from the line of Andrew Baum from Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thanks.
Just returning to the question of building out your immuno-oncology franchise.
And would you mentioned some of the deals you've done.
And I know you've had these two very experienced immuno-oncologists.
Some of your competitors are engaged in rather more frenetic activity in this area.
So along those lines three questions.
Number one in terms of preclinical one wouldn't normally ask about compounds but [indiscernible] very fast in this category.
Is there anything close to clinic from your preclinical portfolio within the next 6 to 12 months? Second what is the disease [ph] interest in adoptive cell [ph] therapy given your highest individual [ph] was closely aligned in that area? And finally should we assume that you have largely done the build out [indiscernible] ? Or as I suspect you're really just getting going in terms of building out franchise? Many thanks.
Okay great.
Thank you very much for the questions.
I think Sue you want to handle those? January feel free to chime in if you'd like to complete any of the answer? Sue? Yeah sure.
So as you've seen we have had a lot of activity.
I wouldn't say it's frenetic.
I think that was the word you used frantic but we have got focused activity in three areas in our R&amp;D portfolio and strategy.
We are focused on cell signaling the micro environment and immuno-oncology.
And we will continue to focus on those areas because we believe that it's going to be rational combinations of molecules within those three areas that's going to be important in the future.
With regard to immuno-oncology as you said we have a number of announcements that we've made on collaborations over the past 12 months and it's really into areas.
One is in partnership to combine our pipeline and marketed products with agents.
In fact we have seven trials either planned or ongoing in combinations with ROI [ph] agents with four different companies.
And then we have our own clinical development where we have three agents in clinical development: our TGF-beta small molecule inhibitor our CXEL 4 [ph] inhibitor and a TSF-1R [ph] antibody.
And then we do have a number of agents in discovery.
I don't know if January wants to comment more but we have a number of agents in discovery and we do see that we're going to be bringing some of the I-O agents out over the coming months and years.
So I think on the cell therapy yes it's an area that we look at.
It's not an area that we are driving at this point in time but I think we need to look at all areas in I-O.
And we see this as - the I-O there's so many unknowns at the moment in I-O and our view is this is a long-term plan.
We're going to be smart in where we focus.
We've really looked at T cell [ph] redirection as an area and you can see that a number of the deals that we have done are in that area.
And I think that covers the question.
Anything you want to answer or add Jan? It's evident in immuno-oncology that we've seen the first generation of single agents then like the PD-1 and PD-L1.
And we are part of the second generation coming when we are combining for instance different checkpoints inhibitors into bio-specific antibodies.
And we also are very keen to activate T cells in a more specific way using the Immunocore technology.
So I think we are just seeing the first door open in the immuno-oncology field and there is very much more to do.
Great.
Thank you.
Leah next caller please.
Next question is from the line of Tony Butler from Guggenheim Partners.
Please go ahead.
Yeah thanks very much.
Three brief questions from me.
I wanted to go back to Tim's question on solanezumab.
[indiscernible] modification from EXPEDITION 3 is that still potentially a theme [ph] that the FDA could get you? Or are there some other statistics or clinical information that you may need to show them? Tony I'm not sure you can hear me.
We're having a real hard time making out the question.
Can you repeat it? Start again.
Yeah.
Are you there Tony? His line is still connected.
Yes hi.
Is this better? Yes it is.
Yeah thank you.
My apologies.
So back to Tim's question on solanezumab I'd like to just understand is Expedition 3 itself sufficient for a disease modification claim? Or will other clinical information be required? Second is there any or could you elaborate on the biological rationale for JAK1/JAK2 which could be more beneficial in RA or in dropping AACR source versus an anti-TNF? And third I guess just to Sue as you think about Cyramza at least in the U.S.
and we'll leave out CRC for the moment where are you getting the best traction with respect to non-small cell lung or gastric? Thank you.
Great Tony.
Thanks for the questions.
So Dave if you'll talk about maybe the first two Yon [ph] feel free to complement the answer as well and then Sue for the question on Cyramza particularly here in the U.S.
what we're seeing.
Dave? Yeah.
Good question on Expedition 3.
We've designed this to be a stand-alone pivotal study to support registration of solanezumab in Alzheimer's patients.
In terms of the exact claims underneath that the FDA themselves have admitted they've been vague and it's a moving landscape because the science is moving so fast in Alzheimer's I'm aware of two clear statements they've made and I think yesterday's data supports one of them which would be in addition to a marked change a clinically relevant change in ADAS-Cog and in the ADL measures or some composite thereof to support disease modification they said they would look at supportive data in a delayed start format.
And I think the speaker yesterday spoke about that.
They have a very elegant trial design they proposed.
No one's actually ever conducted such a thing.
Our data which is a sort of delayed start is helpful in that regard.
Tony that's how I would describe it and then they've also spent a lot of time talking about biomarkers and of course unlike other fields we don't yet have a validated biomarker for disease progression in Alzheimer's.
And we are conducting a sub-study in Expedition 3 using our tao tracer.
We see this as a very important part of not only expedition 3 program potentially to support disease modification and other claims for solanezumab but also to advance the fields understanding of how tao progression maps to cognitive decline in people with confirmed amyloid which we don't have that data today.
So we'll have to wait and see on the specific claims.
Of course we've got a lot of irons in the fire to support solanezumab in that regard but regulator in the whole field is moving rather rapidly here.
So it's difficult to predict.
On bemaciclib and the JAK1/JAK2 and what is I guess you're saying theoretical basis why it could be better than anti-TNF the bottom line is we're running that experiment and we will see that experiment readout in the fall.
And we're really going to have to wait to see whether bemaciclib could be better than a TNF or equal to which is the first test we'll run.
There are lots of plausible explanations why it could happen.
JAK1/JAK2 signaling and we continue to point this out that JAK2 signaling is important to have an IL-6 like effect as well as GM [ph] CSF both of which we have human data validating those targets in RA.
Whether that yields better than TNF which is a quite different target is the test we're running.
Thanks Dave.
Sue? Okay.
And with Cyramza in the U.S.
we're actually seeing a good uptake in both gastric and in lung.
As we look at gastric I mean we launched the single agent indication earlier last year.
So the majority we used last year with single agent then towards the end of last year we launched the combo and we're seeing more uptake in combination.
With gastric prior to the regard data there wasn't anything approved in the U.S.
in the second line treatment of gastric cancer.
So clearly we're seeing this as all people are seeing this as an advance and we're seeing a good uptake good feedback so far about the experience that people are having as well.
In lung we launched earlier this year and we again are seeing good uptake in the second line post platinum patients.
We see these as very two different opportunities with the lung indication being much larger but clearly it's going to be more competitive.
The feedback we're getting is positive about 40% of our sales in Q2 came from lung indication and we continue to see a good opportunity to continue to grow in lung as well as to expanding gastric going forward.
Thank you Sue.
Leah next caller please.
And the next question is from Gregg Gilbert from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Three quick ones here.
First perhaps for Dr.
Siemers or perhaps Dave.
How would you summarized how actual Alzheimer's treaters took the data that was presented down in D.C.
if that was it all on your agenda to kind of feel out folks that are not just clinical trial gurus? Perhaps secondly Chito can comment on what's happening in China.
There's been a pretty sudden slowdown for pharma sales for the industry.
Curious if you could comment on that and how long those conditions might persist.
And for Derica were there any meaningful wholesaler inventory level changes in the quarter versus last Quarter? It looks like A.R.
was up a bit.
Thanks.
Great Gregg.
Thanks for the questions.
So we'll start off with Dave on the first question.
We may see if Eric has something he'd like to add since he's been out at AAIC.
And then to Chito on the China question and Derica for the wholesaler inventory impact in the quarter.
Yeah Gregg thanks for the question.
I think the field as we talked to practitioners is obviously anxiously waiting for a disease-modifying agent in the absence of any way to slow down this horrible condition.
The question of clinical meaningfulness always comes up and the research we've done would say most practitioners would say a one-third reduction over an 18-month period of time is quite meaningful.
But we have Dr.
Siemers on the line here who's a neurologist and I'm sure spoke to many of your colleagues.
Enrique what are your views on how the lay field is interpreting the data? Yeah it's a great question.
I think going into the meeting we wondered ourselves whether this would be interesting just to clinical trial gurus or geeks or whatever you want to say or whether it would have more of a broad interest and I think the interest was fairly broad and I think there's maybe two major reasons for that.
One is that just by showing these delayed start results I think it was in a sense supporting what we initially showed in the placebo-controlled period.
Now of course that was a secondly outcome we always worry about those a little bit but these delayed start results would actually add to the weight of evidence that those results in face we hope will be replicated in Expedition 3.
The other piece is that this whole concept of disease modification has been discussed is something where the science is evolving.
There has been fairly good agreement including by regulators that this delayed start design can provide evidence of disease modification and I think the data were really accepted as evidence of that.
Again it's a secondary analysis from Expedition and Expedition 2 but I think it gives us some real confidence that we'll see very similar results in Expedition 3 and that's one strong piece of evidence of disease modification.
Great.
Thanks Enrique.
Chito? Gregg as I'm sure you've heard from other companies there has been a pretty significant drop in the market growth in China.
I think as we all recall from the mid-teen growth in the last few years year-to-date growth is somewhere around single digit and if you look at the multinational cohort of companies I think May was around 2% growth over the same period last year.
Now I think the primary factor that's driving the slowdown is really some government initiatives and policies that are curtailing volume growth and we're seeing more hospitals and institutions shifting to lower-priced generics.
So we see this continuing at least in the short-term as there is pressure within the national government to curtail expenses.
There's discussion also in curtailing pricing and linking together all types of products from the original brands to generics.
So there's pressure on the volume side and moving forward I think you'll see more pressure on pricing particularly for off patent brands.
Now we need to balance that with the medium-term opportunities and long-term positive opportunities in China.
We have obviously very positive demographics and there is a sincere commitment I believe by the national government to expand healthcare coverage to a broader set of the Chinese population.
But I think we should expect that the short-term will be challenging again because of policies related to volume control in the hospitals and pressure for original brands.
As far as Lilly's concerned I think the better measure to look at our performance with the year-to-date performance given the quarter-to-quarter variability of wholesaler buying patterns and year-to-date we're below on 5% but it's really driven by very [ph] - a decline in our growth and some of our off-patent products primarily in neuroscience oncology and anti-infective products again because of volume control but also because of the generics.
However if you look at the - our patented products we're very pleased to see strong performance from Cialis growing at 23% Forteo growing at over 50%.
And our Analog business I know there was question earlier to Enrique the Analog Insulin business in China is growing 12% year-to-date.
Now we're getting significant pricing pressure on the unit insulin side where local companies are beginning to win the provincial kids.
But once again we anticipate pressure in the short-term but we're very confident that [indiscernible] the long-term prospects remain very very positive.
Great [indiscernible].
Thanks for that color.
And Derica on the wholesaler changes in the quarter? Sure.
Hi Gregg.
As it pertains to wholesalers there was really nothing unusual or unique as it pertains to wholesaler activity in the quarter.
Great.
Leah if we can go to the next caller please.
Certainly.
It is the line of Colin Bristow with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the questions and congrats on the quarter.
A couple of quick ones.
On Trulicity could you talk about the progress you've made in terms of access and any additional color you could give on the launches of Trulicity and Jardiance that would be helpful.
And then number two what do you see as a potential impact on the trajectory of the SGLT-2 class and then Jardiance within that if there was a positive CV [ph] benefit.
Do you expect a heavy asymmetrical benefit for Jardiance or do you think this would just be bled through as a benefit for everyone? And [indiscernible] just a third quick one on saler [ph].
Any additional updates we should expect prior to the Expedition 3 readout? Thank you.
Great Colin.
Thank you for the questions.
Obviously we'll go to Enrique for the first two on some of the access and uptake we're seeing for Trulicity and Jardiance as well as then what the impact might be a positive CV [ph] outcomes trial for Jardiance and then over to you Dave for the solanezumab question and either [ph] updates we've got on that program going forward.
So Enrique? Sure.
So we are pleased with the progress that we've made with both Trulicity and Jardiance.
We now have about 70% access when we look at commercial access in the U.S.
and about 30% being Part B with Trulicity.
As I shared earlier I think for us a key to be able to get long-term value for this product is to ensure the GLP-1 class is growing and we clearly see a significant acceleration of the GLP-1 class.
In the case of Jardiance the situation is similar.
When it comes to - continue to basically get asked this.
I would say that we have differently from the GLP-1 class we have seen a slowdown significant slowdown when it comes to the HCLT-2 [ph] class when it comes to new patient starts this year so that's something that we're watching of course very closely.
And it is difficult to speculate on what relative share of the benefit disproportionate benefit will we get on if we were to have a positive CV [ph] outcomes result.
Clearly this is going to provide a lift to the entire class and we do expect that we're going to get a disproportionate share of that benefit how much I think is difficult to say.
Great.
Thank you Enrique.
Dave? Yeah on - so on what we will expect to - starting with yesterday and until the end of the Expedition 3 study is there will be some scholarly articles and other data coming out on the original Expedition 1 and 2 including the Pool of Mild's [ph] paper we do expect to come out.
Also I had a - there was an interesting presentation yesterday looking at the amyloid changes using a more modern and accepted method which did show a difference between active and placebo so these types of reanalysis and additional data filling out the picture from 1 and 2 will continue.
But the big data readout Expedition 3 which we guide people to really focus on won't happen until after the last patient visit and data analysis last patient visit we project Q4 of 2016.
And we have made the decision just to communicate it formally that we will not conduct an interim analysis for EXPEDITION 3 so we will run the trial to completion.
Enrollment went so quickly in that trial.
There's very little time and benefit for us to go ahead and garner from doing the early read.
We'll look the trial play out and preserve all the powering for the final readout at the end.
Sure.
I know were getting close to the bottom of the hour but I believe we've got one more caller.
We're happy to take that question before wrapping up the call.
Certainly.
And that is from Vamil Divan from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks for sneaking me in here.
So just a couple of quick things I could maybe some different topics and we focus on so far.
One just on the Animal Health side.
You kind of close the Novartis deal.
Just kind of if we can get a sense from Jeff for how he's viewing that business kind of going forward and kind of the growth we should expect going forward.
There's 2% constant currency growth this quarter or year-to-date so just want to see how - what you think there.
Second just on the PCSK9 obviously a lot of interest and excitement around the industry on that because the first ones most of the market you guys still got yours in phase 2.
And if you can just give an update on how you view that opportunity for Lily? And then third maybe it's a little bit early for this but just around the dividend with all the news you've been having on the pipeline in the kind of return to growth you're seeing how should we think about your view on the dividend going forward? Thank you.
Great.
Fantastic.
Thanks Vamil.
So Jeff you'll start us off and we'll shift over to Dave for the PCSK9 question and finish up with Derica.
Yeah.
The overall Animal Health business Cylanco [ph] is tracking to our plans and expectations.
This year has been focused on integration after coming out of an era of a lot of growth.
We're planning to return to that but this year's big focus is on the integration.
Our previously committed savings level on the integration of $200 million by 2017 2018.
What I would say is we see that as a minimum expectation and we'll have an Animal Health investor conference in December in Boston where we'll get into more detail what we would say is today we're seeing ourselves meeting and exceeding all the key milestones on Novartis and that'll be a key driver in returning to growth.
So yes we saw 3% growth this quarter but what we would say is we see the combination of the integration as well as our pipeline and innovation returning us back to top-tier industry growth once we come to the integration.
We'll articulate more of these details again in Boston at the end of the year.
Thanks.
Dave? Yeah.
On PCSK9 there's really no update from the last call where we have the question.
We have our phase 2 data complete we're looking at our strategic options for this program recognizing there's three competitors ahead of us and we would want to see differentiation or perhaps look for other options to have them all move forward.
Thanks Dave.
Derica? In regards to the dividend we're very encouraged and excited about the current performance of the business and as we've seen us kind of turning the tide and returning to the spirit of growth and margin expansion it really is giving us the capacity if you've seen this year to return to more regular cadence of dividend increases and we see that going forward over time.
And then likewise you'll see us continue also to look to supplement that with returning additional excess cash to shareholders via our share repurchase program.
Thanks Derica.
John would you like to go ahead and conclude the call for us? Sure Phil.
We appreciate your participation in today's earnings call and your interest in our company.
We've received a positive feedback on the recent calls we hosted to discuss our diabetes business and late stage data from two key molecules in our Biomedicines business.
They're sitting there [indiscernible].
So building on that experience we plan to host an investor event in Boston as Jeff mentioned on Tuesday December 8 to highlight to other areas of our business that obviously are generating significant investor interest and that's Alzheimer's and Animal Health.
So we hope the information we share at this upcoming events will be likewise helpful you.
Finally if you have questions we didn't address in today's call please contact our IR team.
I can tell you that they are standing by and would be happy to help.
So have a great day and thanks again for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference is available for digitized replay after 11:30 a.m.
Eastern time today through July 30 at midnight.
You may access the replay service at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 363537.
International may dial 3203653844.
Those numbers again our 1-800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 with the access code of 363537.
And that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for using AT&amp;T Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Q3 2015 earnings call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question and answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to John Lechleiter.
Please go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us for Eli Lilly and Company's third quarter 2015 earnings call.
I'm John Lechleiter; I'm Lilly's Chairman President and CEO.
Joining me on today's call are Derica Rice our Chief Financial Officer; Dr.
Jan Lundberg President of Lilly Research Laboratories; Dr.
Sue Mahony President of Lilly Oncology; Enrique Conterno President of Lilly Diabetes; Dave Ricks President of Lilly Bio-Medicines; Chito Zulueta President of Emerging Markets; Jeff Simmons President of Elanco Animal Health; and Ilissa Rassner Brad Robling and Phil Johnson of the Lilly Investor Relations team.
During this call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on slide 3 and those outlined in our latest forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
So let me begin by providing an overview of Lilly's third quarter.
Again this quarter we posted strong non-GAAP financial performance.
With our continued focus on expanding margins we leveraged constant currency revenue growth of 5% into operating income growth of 27%.
Year to date we've leveraged 3% constant currency revenue growth into 16% operating income growth.
Along with this strong financial performance our focus on innovation continues to pay off.
Just since our last call in Diabetes along with Boehringer Ingelheim we presented results from the EMPA-REG OUTCOME study with Jardiance.
This is the first time a diabetes medication showed a significant reduction in both cardiovascular risk and cardiovascular death in a dedicated outcome study.
We anticipate that our colleagues at BI will submit these data to U.S.
and European regulators before the end of this year.
In Bio-Medicines we announced results from two Phase 3 rheumatoid arthritis studies evaluating baricitinib head to head against two of the most widely used RA treatments.
In one study baricitinib showed superior efficacy to methotrexate in treatment-naïve patients.
And in the second study it showed superior efficacy to adalimumab the market-leading biologic in patients with inadequate response to conventional DMARDs.
These are outstanding results.
Our team is now squarely focused on global regulatory submissions.
And in Oncology the U.S.
FDA granted breakthrough therapy designation to our CDK4 and CDK6 inhibitor abemaciclib for the treatment of patients with refractory hormone-receptor-positive advanced or metastatic breast cancer.
This is our second oncology molecule to receive breakthrough therapy designation following olaratumab for soft-tissue sarcoma.
As you know the FDA may grant this designation in certain circumstances where there is preliminary clinical evidence that a drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over available therapy on a clinically significant endpoint.
These are all excellent examples of the progress we're making in delivering innovation that is valued by patients physicians and payers.
Also since our last call we were reminded of just how vexing the pursuit of pharmaceutical innovation can be.
Despite demonstrating HDL and LDL changes consistent with our Phase 2 study our CETP inhibitor evacetrapib did not demonstrate a reduction in major adverse cardiovascular events in the Phase 3 ACCELERATE trial.
Lilly and its academic collaborators decided to terminate development of evacetrapib based on this new information.
This was an unexpected and a disappointing development for patients with high-risk vascular disease and for Lilly.
Despite this setback our pipeline is strong and our future growth prospects are bright.
We continue to look forward to revenue growth and margin expansion throughout the balance of this decade and we believe we've built a sustainable R&amp;D engine for the long term.
Now let me highlight additional key events that have occurred since our second quarter earning call in late July.
On the commercial front in diabetes we launched a number of products in major markets.
We launched our weekly GLP-1 agonist Trulicity in Japan.
Along with Boehringer Ingelheim we launched our insulin glargine product in Japan as well as the UK Germany and a number of other European markets.
And here in the U.S.
we received approval for and launched Synjardy a twice-daily combination pill containing the SGLT2 inhibitor empagliflozin and Metformin.
Also in the U.S.
we launched Humalog U-200 KwikPen the first concentrated mealtime analog insulin in the U.S.
market.
On the regulatory front our colleagues at Boehringer Ingelheim completed the FDA submission of Jentadueto XR a once-daily combination pill containing linagliptin and Metformin.
In Japan we submitted ramucirumab for second-line non-small cell lung cancer and ixekizumab for both moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis and for psoriatic arthritis.
In the U.S.
we submitted Humulin Regular U-500 in the KwikPen delivery device to the FDA.
The product is already marketed in the U.S.
in a vial and syringe format.
As I mentioned earlier the FDA granted breakthrough therapy designation to abemaciclib based on data from our Phase 1b cohort expansions in breast cancer.
On the clinical front we had a number of noteworthy disclosures.
As Enrique discussed on our investor call a few weeks ago along with our colleagues at Boehringer Ingelheim we at Lilly are thrilled that Jardiance is the only diabetes medication to show a significant reduction in both cardiovascular risk and cardiovascular death in a dedicated outcomes trial – in this case in patients with type 2 diabetes at high risk of CV events.
Roughly one in two deaths in people with type 2 diabetes is due to cardiovascular disease despite the use of statins blood pressure medicines and antiplatelet therapy.
Clearly a significant unmet need remains for further reducing cardiovascular risk in people with type 2 diabetes to help them live longer and healthier lives.
Highlights from the EMPA-REG OUTCOME study included a 14% reduction in the primary outcome measure of the three-point MACE endpoint comprised of cardiovascular death non-fatal heart attack or non-fatal stroke; a 35% reduction in hospitalization due to heart failure; a 38% reduction in death from cardiovascular causes; and a 32% reduction in death from all causes.
This is great news for patients with type 2 diabetes at high risk for cardiovascular events.
As I mentioned earlier the positive clinical data readouts didn't stop there.
Along with Incyte we were extremely pleased that baricitinib demonstrated superior efficacy to methotrexate in treatment-naïve patients with RA and adalimumab in RA patients with inadequate response to conventional DMARDs.
We'll present detailed data from these trials at the American College of Rheumatology meeting in San Francisco in November and we will host an investor call on November 11 to review the results with you.
Finally in clinical news we terminated the development of evacetrapib for the treatment of high-risk cardiovascular disease as I stated in my opening comments.
We expect to disclose detailed findings from this study at a medical conference next year.
On the business development front earlier this month as planned we took back North American rights to erbitux from Bristol-Myers Squibb.
We announced the acquisition of worldwide rights to a Phase 3 intranasal glucagon from Locemia.
This product could be the first needle-free rescue treatment for severe hypoglycemia.
We expanded our collaboration with Innovent based in Suzhou China to include the development and potential commercialization of up to three anti-PD-1 based bispecific antibodies.
We entered into a preclinical research collaboration with ImaginAb centered on T-cell based immuno-oncology therapies.
And we announced an expansion of our immuno-oncology collaboration with AstraZeneca to include a range of additional combinations across both companies' complementary portfolios.
In other news we entered into a settlement agreement with Sanofi to resolve insulin glargine patent litigation.
Under this agreement Sanofi granted Lilly a royalty-bearing license so that Lilly can manufacture and sell Basaglar in the KwikPen device globally.
Also Lilly and Boehringer Ingelheim will be able to launch Basaglar in the U.S.
in December 2016.
The Japan Patent Office issued a notice of closure in the trial regarding the validity of Lilly's vitamin regimen patent for Alimta.
We expect a written decision upholding the validity of the patent in the coming weeks.
This is the first of two decisions pending.
If the patents are ultimately upheld through all challenges and appeals they would provide intellectual property protection for Alimta in Japan until June 2021.
The U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of Indiana ruled that our Alimta vitamin regimen patent would be infringed by generic challengers' proposed products.
The court had previously upheld the validity of this patent which provides intellectual property protection for Alimta until May 2022.
The generics have appealed these rulings but a date for the appeal has not yet been set.
We announced plans to expand our New York City research and development site.
This investment will enhance our immuno-oncology capabilities as well as facilitate academic collaborations.
And finally in the third quarter we repurchased $61 million of stock leaving $3.2 billion remaining on our $5 billion plan.
In addition during the third quarter we distributed over $500 million to shareholders via our dividend.
We remain committed to providing a robust dividend and to returning excess cash to shareholders via share repurchase.
And now I'll turn the call over to Phil for a discussion of our financial performance for the quarter.
Phil? Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</strong> Great thank you John.
Before I discuss our Q3 results it may be helpful to review key features of our presentation of GAAP results and non-GAAP measures.
When interpreting our GAAP results and the growth rates versus 2014 keep in mind that 2014 does not include Novartis Animal Health while 2015 includes the operating results of this business as well as all the costs associated with the acquisition.
For our non-GAAP measures we now exclude amortization of intangibles.
And to provide you a better idea of the underlying trends in our business we've adjusted our non-GAAP measures for 2014 to exclude the expense associated with amortization of intangibles and to include Novartis Animal Health as if we'd closed the transaction on January 1 2014.
This should place 2014 on the exact same basis upon which we are reporting our financials this year.
Now let's look at our results for the quarter.
Slide 9 provides a summary of our GAAP results.
I'll focus my comments on our underlying non-GAAP measures to provide insights into the trends in our business.
So please refer to today's earnings press release for a detailed description of the year-on-year changes in our third quarter reported or GAAP results.
Moving to slide 10 you can see that Q3 revenue was just under $5 billion.
The decrease of 4% compared to Q3 2014 reflects significant FX headwinds.
Excluding FX our Q3 revenue increased 5% on a non-GAAP basis.
As we discussed on prior calls this year we're still feeling a negative effect from the loss of U.S.
exclusivity for Cymbalta and Evista.
As we move through 2015 however this effect is diminishing.
This quarter U.S.
Cymbalta and Evista trimmed about 150 basis points off of our worldwide revenue growth rate.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue increased 3 percentage points going from 74.8% to 77.8%.
This increase was driven by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates on international inventories sold which increased cost of sales in Q3 last year but decreased cost of sales in Q3 this year.
Excluding this FX effect our gross margin percent increased by 30 basis points going from 74.9% in last year's quarter to 75.2% this quarter.
As on prior calls you'll find a supplementary slide providing our gross margin percent for the last 10 quarters with and without this FX effect.
We continue to drive productivity improvements across our business.
Total operating expense defined as the sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A declined by 7% or over $200 million compared to Q3 of 2014.
Breaking this into its component parts marketing selling and administrative expenses declined 5% while R&amp;D declined 10%.
The reduction in marketing selling and administrative expenses was due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates and continued expense control partially offset by expenses to support recent product launches.
The reduction R&amp;D expense was driven primarily by the 2014 charge associated with the termination of tabalumab development and to a lesser extent by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates.
Other income and expense was income of $87 million this quarter and included a gain on liquidation of our Receptos holdings that was partially offset by other investment losses and writedowns.
Our tax rate was 24.9% an increase of 1.6 percentage points compared to the same quarter last year.
This increase is due to a catch-up for the first nine months of this year to reflect an increased percentage of forecasted earnings in higher-tax jurisdictions.
Also our tax rate in both periods did not include the benefit of certain U.S.
tax provisions including the R&amp;D tax credit as those provisions had lapsed.
At the bottom line net income and earnings per share both increased 22%.
Slide 11 contains non-GAAP adjusted information for the first nine months of the year.
I would point out that year to date our non-GAAP operating expenses – again the sum of SG&amp;A and R&amp;D – is 54.7% of revenue.
This is more than 140 basis points lower than the same period last year and reflects clear progress toward our goal of 50% or lower in 2018.
Slide 12 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS and you'll find additional details on these adjustments on slide 22.
Now let's take a look at the effect of price rate and volume on revenue.
On slide 13 in the yellow box at the bottom of the page you'll see the total revenue decline of 4% on a non-GAAP basis that I mentioned earlier.
The significant strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against many foreign currencies drove this decline as you see the 8% negative effect from FX this quarter.
On a performance basis our worldwide revenue grew 5% with volume driving 7 percentage points of growth partially offset by a negative price effect of 2%.
By geography you'll notice that U.S.
Pharma revenue increased 13% driven by volume partially offset by price.
Late-lifecycle revenue for Evista and Cymbalta did influence individual components of U.S.
growth but not the overall increase.
In fact excluding Evista and Cymbalta the rest of our U.S.
revenue grew 17% with 9% from price and 8% from volume with new products like Trulicity and Cyramza making significant contributions.
Moving to our international operations we're now reporting Australia and New Zealand along with our emerging markets so Australia Canada and Europe or ACE in the past is now EuCan which stand for Europe and Canada.
The decline in EuCan revenue of 17% was almost entirely driven by the negative effect of FX while on a constant currency or performance basis EuCan revenue decreased 3%.
This decrease was driven by a substantial reduction in the European Cymbalta sales resulting from a loss of data package exclusivity.
Excluding Cymbalta EuCan sales increased 3% in constant currency terms.
In Japan Pharma revenue decreased 4% in total driven by adverse currency movements while on a constant currency or performance basis Japan revenue increased 14%.
This performance growth was attributable to many products chief among them Cymbalta and Cyramza.
Turning to emerging markets we saw revenue decline of 18% driven primarily by negative FX effect of 14%.
On a performance basis emerging market sales declined 4%.
This 4% performance decline was driven almost entirely by the negative effect of the Brazil Humulin tender that we had last year but not this year.
Also this quarter our Pharma revenue in China declined 2% with 1% driven by FX and the other 1% driven by lower volume.
On a non-GAAP basis which adjusts 2014 as if we'd completed the Novartis Animal Health acquisition on January 1 of last year Elanco Animal Health revenue declined 9%.
Excluding the negative effect of FX Elanco revenue decreased 2%.
This performance decrease was primarily driven by OUS companion animal products and to a lesser extent by U.S.
companion animal products partially offset by growth in U.S.
food animal products.
Moving to slide 15 you'll see the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on our Q3 2015 results.
This quarter FX was a significant top line headwind reducing revenue in U.S.
dollars by eight percentage points.
In terms of cost of goods sold however FX provided a substantial benefit as non-GAAP cost of goods sold decreased 15% including FX but increased 5% excluding FX.
With both revenue and cost of sales increasing 5% in performance terms we saw similar growth in gross margin.
Our continued expense discipline is evident in our operating expense results as even when backing out the favorable effect of FX on our expenses OpEx still declined 3%.
This allowed us to leverage mid-single-digit growth in revenue and gross margin into 27% performance growth in operating income and 25% performance growth in net income and EPS.
These are outstanding results.
Moving to our pipeline update on slide 16 you'll see the pipeline as of October 16.
Changes since our last earnings call are highlighted with green arrows showing progression red arrows showing attrition and stars showing additions.
In terms of advancement you'll see that we began Phase 3 testing of olaratumab in soft-tissue sarcoma as well as of our tau imaging agent for Alzheimer's disease.
And through our recent agreement with Locemia Solutions we added the intranasal glucagon molecule.
You'll see we began Phase 2 testing for an ultra-rapid-acting insulin in collaboration with Adocia and we began Phase 1 testing of two molecules one for cancer and the other for diabetes.
Since our last update we've also terminated development of a number of molecules including evacetrapib in Phase 3 two molecules in Phase 2 as well as five in Phase 1.
The early-phase terminations you've seen in recent quarters reflect a concerted effort to raise the bar for taking molecules forward and to focus our efforts on the highest priority opportunities.
Now let me turn the call over to Derica.
Thanks Phil.
As on prior calls I'll recap the progress we've made on the key events we projected for 2015 and then review our 2015 financial guidance.
Turning to slide 17 we're pleased with the positive progress we've made on the key events we laid out for the year.
This progress is represented by the large number of green checkmarks that you see.
We've highlighted in yellow the key events that have occurred since our last earnings call.
They include initiation of Phase 3 trials for olaratumab in soft-tissue sarcoma ramucirumab in second-line liver cancer and along with Pfizer for tanezumab in both osteoarthritis pain and chronic lower back pain.
As mentioned earlier we issued a top line press release and presented detailed data at EASD for the Jardiance EMPA-REG OUTCOME trial.
We also issued top line press releases for two positive Phase 3 studies of baricitinib in rheumatoid arthritis RA-BEGIN in September and RA-BEAM earlier this month.
And we terminated the Phase 3 ACCELERATE trial with evacetrapib.
You'll also see that we've updated the regulatory submissions category to reflect Japanese submission of ixekizumab for both psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis.
Separately you'll now see on ClinTrials.gov (sic) [ClinicalTrials.gov] that we are running a new psoriasis trial comparing ixekizumab head to head with Stelara.
In the other section you'll see green checkmarks for the positive Alimta ruling from the U.S.
District Court on the issue of infringement and for the similar ruling received in Japan.
Key events remaining this year include: regulatory submission of baricitinib for RA; initiation of a rolling submission for olaratumab for soft-tissue sarcoma with the completion of the submission expected during the first half of next year; FDA action on necitumumab for first-line squamous non-small-cell lung cancer; and legal rulings on Alimta litigation in Europe.
The progress we've made in the past few years and again this year in executing our innovation-based strategy solidifies our near to medium-term growth prospects and it gives us confidence that our strategy is the right one for Lilly to create value for our various stakeholders including our shareholders.
Turning to our 2015 financial guidance let me start with the punchline.
We raised and narrowed our non-GAAP EPS guidance to reflect solid underlying performance for the first nine months of the year as well as higher other income.
Looking by line item you'll see that our revenue and gross margin percent guidance is unchanged.
We've reduced our guidance for both marketing selling and administrative expense and R&amp;D and development expense.
This is driven by our continued focus on expense management.
I would note that this lower R&amp;D range includes an anticipated Q4 charge of up to $90 million related to stopping the evacetrapib clinical trials.
We've increased the expected range for other income largely due to the gain on the sale of our Receptos stock holdings.
To reflect an increased percentage of earnings in higher-tax jurisdictions we've increased our non-GAAP tax rate to 21.5% and our GAAP tax rate to 16.5%.
Please note that both tax rates assume the R&amp;D tax credit and other international tax provisions will be extended before year-end retroactive for the full year.
At the bottom line you'll see we've raised and narrowed our non-GAAP EPS range and now forecast full-year non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $3.40 to $3.45 per share.
Our new GAAP EPS range of $2.40 to $2.45 per share reflect this same upward adjustment.
Finally we've lowered our estimate for full-year capital expenditures to $1.1 billion.
In summary we again posted solid underlying business performance in the third quarter and for the first nine months of the year.
Excluding the negative effect of FX we drove mid-single-digit revenue growth with strong contributions coming from recently launched products.
Our continued focus on productivity and cost controls drove strong leverage at the bottom line.
And the current pace of margin expansion puts us on track to meet our midterm margin expansion goals.
While we did experience a setback with evacetrapib news from our pipeline has on balance been exceedingly positive.
The string of positive results we've had over the last couple of years represents tangible results from our innovation-based strategy and we still have an exciting period ahead of us.
We expect FDA action on two molecules presently under regulatory review necitumumab before the end of this year and ixekizumab in the first half of next year.
And over the next 18 months we could submit six additional new molecular entities for regulatory review baricitinib olaratumab abemaciclib intranasal glucagon our CGRP monoclonal antibody and solanezumab.
The success of our pipeline positions us to drive revenue growth and expand margins throughout the balance of this decade.
So as it has been our stated intent we have returned to revenue growth on a performance basis.
We are reducing OpEx as a percent of revenue helping to expand our operating margins.
We are advancing our pipeline with positive results and we have built a sustainable R&amp;D engine that can produce additional and exciting new medicines to help people have longer healthier lives.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Now I'll turn the call over to Phil to moderate the Q&amp;A session.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</strong> Thanks Derica.
Linda if you could please provide the instructions for the Q&amp;A session and then go to the first caller on the line please.
We'll begin with the line of Mark Schoenebaum with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys can you hear me? Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> We sure can Mark.
Thanks so much for letting me having the first question.
I really appreciate it.
John I have two questions for you please if I may and I hope you're well.
Last quarter you said in the 2Q call that you thought SMID-cap biotech stocks in general were in a bit of a valuation bubble.
You have proven to be a better stock analyst than me and my competitors.
Now that we're 25% lower than your comments I'd just love to hear kind of what you think.
And of course from a Lilly perspective are you asking your BD folks to kind of speed up the pace of their calls? Or do you want to let this settle out for a while or do you want to see it go lower? Number two I know you're very involved in Washington and what goes on there with the bio and the pharma lobbying groups and industry.
I'd love to hear your thoughts on drug pricing but more specifically – obviously given the Hillary Clinton tweet the Marco Rubio comments – but more specifically I'd love to know when do you think the industry is just going to begin defending itself to the public more aggressively which is going to cost some money? You know that we're only 10% of overall healthcare spending and the other 90% and these other costs et cetera.
When is the industry going to begin to spend the money to try to change the image and teach Americans that it's probably worth it? And I'll leave my questions at that.
Thanks Phil for calling on me.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> You're welcome Mark.
John? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay Mark.
Thanks a lot.
I did make the comment about the bubble I guess at the last call.
Although I think the hit that the industry has taken may have come from sort of another direction with the noise around pricing.
I think there's no question that valuations are lower.
Does that change our fundamental posture with respect to business development? It doesn't I think we've said all along that we're really not interested in sort of large-scale M&amp;A but we're going to continue to look at opportunities particularly earlier in development even at the preclinical stage to acquire assets or acquire companies as the case may be.
We're very excited about the opportunity we have with Locemia this intranasal glucagon that we announced just a few days ago.
I don't know how good of a – I don't think I'd want to change jobs with you right now though Mark.
I think you do what you do well and I'll continue to try to do what I do - I'd take that trade.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay good.
Now on drug pricing I think if you go back through successive presidential campaigns with some bit of variability drug pricing sort of tends to rear its head because I think it's something that politicians have found resonates with voters.
Having said that I think the facts tell a different story.
Someone showed me some information the other day – in the second quarter of this year the net effective price increase for the market basket of medicines in this country rose 0.7%.
Well I mean that reflects – not necessarily these things that get called out in the media these individual huge drug price increases.
It reflects the fact that many of our medicines are going generic still.
I'm talking about the industry here Lilly's sort of been through its own situation with that.
It reflects the deep discount that we're mandated by the government to provide but increasingly must provide to commercial insurers and payers in order to get onto formularies and to be able to compete for the business.
I think with respect to telling the story I think you can expect to see more coming from the industry.
I think we've got to be careful and thoughtful here.
I don't think there's a way you can spend enough money to sort of all the sudden change people's minds because so much of the criticism comes in the form of earned media.
No one's out there spending money per se; they're just picking up quotes and amplifying those.
We've got a great story to tell.
We've got medicines – and if you look at the hepatitis space if you look at cancer if you look at diabetes.
I mean huge advances in recent years.
Obviously lots of risks our evacetrapib trial calls that out.
At the same time I've never been as optimistic as I am about the chances we have as an industry to really make a difference for patients.
We've got to keep telling the story reminding people that the medicines as a percentage of total healthcare spend have remained remarkably constant for a long period of time which suggests that our medicines are helping to hold the line or even reduce other costs in the system that none of us want to incur: hospital stays being off of work disability et cetera.
So we're not tone-deaf Mark in terms of the criticism that's being leveled at us.
At the same time I think that we've got more work to do here and I think you can expect to see more.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you John.
Linda if we could go to the next caller please.
Yes next we'll go to the line of Chris Scott with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks very much for the questions.
First one is on expense management.
You guys are obviously doing a great job on that front but just a qualitative question as I look out to 2016.
You've had a lot of incremental product flows when we think about next year and to 2017 between Jardiance's expanded label the IL-17 baricitinib et cetera.
Should we think about 2016 as an investment year for the company where we could see SG&amp;A growth kind of resume here or do you still have enough flexibility with some of your initiatives to absorb some of these launches in the existing infrastructure? The second question was on baricitinib.
Just wanted to get some of your perspective on how you see the superiority data versus Humira playing out in the commercial RA market.
I guess is this an area that you think you could take share quickly or is this going to be a much more gradual story just given how entrenched some of these TNFs are with the long-term safety et cetera? Thanks very much.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great Chris.
Thank you for the questions.
Derica we'll go to you for the first question on the expenses and particularly some of the pushes and pulls as we head into 2016 and then Dave for your comments on baricitinib.
Good morning Chris.
It's too early to give specific guidance on 2016 as it relates to our expense management.
We'll provide that on our January call the first week of 2016.
But what I can say is that we expect to be consistent with what we stated all along which is that we believe we can expand margins throughout the balance of this decade and that's also including revenue growth.
And clearly to expand margins that means we either – we're growing our top line faster than we're growing our expense base.
And what ultimately happens to our expense base we will share the specifics around that in that first week in 2016.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Derica Dave? Lilly Bio-Medicines</span></strong> Thanks for the question Chris on bari.
We're very excited now that we have the full set of data in hand.
Recall we have four separate Phase 3 programs which really span the whole spectrum of rheumatoid arthritis from refractory patients to biologics.
Recall that was the first study we read out and our study has I think a unique feature in it's a very real-world assessment.
Many patients had failed on two or three or more biologics before entering that study and still baricitinib showed very strong robust efficacy.
We then read out a study in conventional DMARD refractory patients.
Again baricitinib really helped patients who had been refractory to methotrexate and other conventional DMARDs.
We then demonstrated superiority to really the established standard of care for disease modification which is methotrexate in the RA-BEGIN study and most recently a superiority to adalimumab in DMARD-refractory patients sort of this first-line biologic space.
So I think we've gotten what we wanted when we started the program.
And to your question on safety so far through clinical trial observations we're very reassured by the safety profile we see.
So we're now onto submission.
In terms of what to expect in the market I think the RA market has some features where one would say this will not be sort of an overweight phenomena of share gain.
You mentioned one which is a natural caution on safety in any new drug where you're suppressing the immune system.
We're very confident in the data we've produced on that dimension through our clinical trials but understandably physicians like to see that play out over time and I think that's been sort of the normal pattern in this market.
As more reassuring safety data from a real-world setting is produced doctors become more comfortable.
It's also a very competitive space.
We understand that and we're prepared to compete in that.
On the other hand baricitinib I think offers a new choice which is when I'm failing on inexpensive generic conventional DMARDs rather than step two a TNF I have another alternative now and that alternative appears to be superior to the standard of care in that setting.
And there are a number of patients in that situation have not made that step two anti-TNFs for all kinds of reasons and we'll be competing aggressively in that space.
And so we like our hand.
We obviously will have baricitinib for a while to come.
We're stepping into a new market for Lilly; we want to do it right.
And my view is I think we'll see good uptake.
It won't be some overnight phenomena but on the other hand we do expect to make incremental gains as we enter the market.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Dave.
Linda if we can go to the next caller please.
Next we'll go to the line of Tim Anderson with Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I have three questions.
On EMPA-REG OUTCOME is it possible that those results will actually trigger price competition as J&amp;J tries to hold on to its market-leading formulary positioning with Invokana? And Lilly like most other sellers of SGLT2s also sells a DPP-4.
What's your messaging to physicians on how they should think about those two different classes of drugs? On Alimta U.S.
performance was down year on year.
You mentioned competitive pressures.
I'm assuming that is the PD-1s.
So is that the trajectory we should think about going forward? And then lastly on evacetrapib knowing what you do about the data at this point do you think your drug failed because of the way you ran your particular clinical trial? Or do you think it failed because CETP inhibition is just not a viable mechanism? I realize full results have not yet been presented.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Tim thank you for the questions.
So Enrique if we can go to you for the first couple of questions on EMPA-REG OUTCOME and messaging around DPP-4 Tradjenta.
Sue to you then for the Alimta U.S.
dynamics that we're seeing.
And then Dave on evacetrapib.
Jan also feel free to chime in if you would like as well.
Enrique? Lilly Diabetes</span></strong> Sure.
Tim thank you for your question.
It's difficult really to speculate when it comes to price competition.
If anything the EMPA-REG OUTCOME results create differentiation in the marketplace.
So from that perspective we feel very confident in the value proposition that Jardiance offers today which is I think very significant.
I would point out that the access that we already have with Jardiance for 2016 is indeed very strong.
We will have over 85% commercial access and over 55% Part D access.
Could those numbers improve a bit with some of these results? It is likely but as you know that takes time and there's a process when it comes to formularies.
At this point in time there's no promotion of these data.
We are clearly seeing an uptick when it comes to new-to-brand prescriptions.
Just to frame we were before the top line when we look at EMPA including both Jardiance and glyxambi our new-to-brand share was 15%.
That creeped up to 17% by the time at EASD.
And now we're at 21%.
Probably most relevant is the share shift that we've seen post-EASD with endocrinologies going from 21% to 31% new-to-brand share despite the fact that there's no promotion.
As John shared in his prepared remarks we are planning to have the submission before the end of the year.
Now in terms of our positioning in terms of promotion that's something that we do not discuss prior to basically launching our promotion campaign and our messages in this particular case for EMPA.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Okay and any thoughts at all on Tradjenta moving forward now that we have SGLT2 data and how we'll be competing with that drug? Lilly Diabetes</span></strong> Nothing really changes when it comes to Tradjenta.
We have I think a unique product that is uniquely differentiated in the DPP-4 class.
Tradjenta I think it's important to note is the fastest grower in that class.
So growth is very very strong.
We are planning no changes at this stage.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Sue? Lilly Oncology</span></strong> Sure.
Tim with regard to Alimta we saw a couple of things this quarter.
Firstly we saw a buying pattern where we had a buy-in this time last year that we didn't see this year.
And secondly we have seen some softening on Alimta in later lines of therapy in second line and beyond which we had anticipated.
I mean we just launched Cyramza in the second-line setting and clearly the I-O agents are also in second line.
So we are seeing some softening there and in areas that we're not promoting.
Where we are promoting i.e.
the first-line setting and continuation maintenance we continue to see good usage and continue to believe that we will continue to see good usage in those areas.
As you know we are also doing combination studies with I-O agents.
We anticipate getting some data next year on that.
So I wouldn't read too much into this quarter's trend.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Dave? Lilly Bio-Medicines</span></strong> Yeah as relates to evacetrapib Tim obviously we're disappointed in the outcome but I guess your question is did we run the right experiment.
And our answer is yes.
We sought to test the hypothesis whether robust CETP inhibition which dramatically raised HDL and reduced LDL would lead to a reduction in major cardiovascular events.
We ran that experiment I think exceedingly well in a population of interest which was high-risk vascular disease.
And after three years of observation the answer is robust CETP inhibition does not change major cardiovascular events with evacetrapib.
We really can't say whether that would apply to other CETP inhibitors but I think we're pretty confident that the experiment we ran was a good one.
And we have a definitive answer thus the discontinuation of development.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> One thing – this is Phil – real quick.
Because we had a number of questions as you would imagine after the announcement that we were stopping the development of evacetrapib.
Just to clarify the kinds of robust increases we saw in HDL and decreases in LDL.
If you look at the Phase 2 study you'll notice that we essentially had two main doses a 100-milligram dose and a 500-milligram dose.
It was very clear that the 500-milligram dose produced both greater increases in HDL and greater decreases in LDL than the 100-milligram dose.
The 130-milligram dose we took into Phase 3 had been reformulated to be more bioavailable and give effects that would be more potent than the prior formulation.
In effect what we saw from the initial data we've seen in our Phase 3 study would have been as we had expected and talked about in the past additional HDL raising of roughly 120% plus 130% kind of numbers and greater than a 30% reduction on top of statins on LDLs.
So very robust changes that for whatever reasons and unfortunately did not translate into a reduction in MACE events in this particular trial.
So more to come on that likely next year as Dave mentioned.
So Linda if we can go to the next caller please.
Next we'll go to the line of Vamil Divan with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks so much for taking the questions.
I just had two questions if I could.
So one just around the pricing discussion from before just found it interesting on slide 13 when you break down the pushes and pulls on the revenues.
I think this was the first quarter in a few that we've seen the impact on price in the U.S.
be negative.
And so I was wondering if you maybe just could provide a little bit more color if I'm correct on what exactly drove that result relative to the last several quarters.
And then second one is just we've received a few questions around – you've got obviously a lot of news positive and negative for the pipeline.
And you've kind of generally endorsed sort of the margin expansion story you've talked about before.
You've given pretty specific comments in the past around the ranges you expect for SG&amp;A and R&amp;D sort of in that 2018-2019 timeframe in terms of percentage of sales.
Can you just talk I guess – do you still feel comfortable with those numbers you gave before? And maybe more broadly just how much are you factoring in from drugs that are still in the pipeline in terms of delivering actual revenues in that 2018 – 2019 timeframe as you think about hitting the margin targets that you've outlined before? Thanks.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Vamil for the questions.
On your first question this is the first quarter in a while that we had a negative price effect for our U.S.
Pharma business.
If you do go back to some prior years I think there were some similar effects as we've gone through loss of exclusivity for products particularly when we have engaged in helping to supply the market with generic forms of our product.
And that's what happened essentially this quarter in particular with Evista where we had higher volumes than in last year's quarter for shipments of generic Evista or raloxifene and that influenced the price calculation.
Again this is something that is particular to late lifecycle as John mentioned at the very beginning.
This is one of the benefits essentially that the industry provides with our innovation is that eventually you do lose patent protection and patient and payers benefit from significantly reduced prices on those innovations.
Derica on the forward-looking ranges for SG&amp;A and R&amp;D? Sure.
What we've said is we will get our operating expenses and that's defined as the sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A combined to a level of 50% of revenue or less in 2018.
And we feel that given results we've seen here in the quarter and really thus far through the first nine months of this year we're very much on track to achieve that goal.
And we've also stated that we believe we can achieve that goal regardless of the pipeline output scenario that we're in.
So we've never known exactly which molecules would succeed and which ones would fail but whatever the mix were we were confident that we could still achieve that margin expansion goal.
And we believe that with the payout that we've seen thus far over the last couple years we're even more confident that we will achieve that and also that we will be able to expand the margins throughout the remainder of this decade.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Derica.
Linda if we can go to the next caller please.
Next.
we'll go to the line of Gregg Gilbert with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Enrique going back to diabetes I'm not asking you to show your future strategic cards here.
But what is Lilly doing to help shape the diabetes treatment guidelines post the EMPA results? Perhaps if you could share what you think a realistic responsible goal would be for Lilly as a company in terms of how to frame the importance of that outcomes benefit for treating physicians.
And then my second question is on the Alzheimer's front.
Is Lilly exploring compounds that treat the symptoms of the disease or are you focused only on disease modification as a goal? A policy question as you approach R&amp;D in that area beyond the later-stage assets.
Thanks.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great Gregg.
Thank you for the questions.
So Enrique on the first question and Dave if you'd like to take the second one.
Lilly Bio-Medicines</span></strong> Sure.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Jan obviously feel free to chime in as well if you'd like.
Enrique? Lilly Diabetes</span></strong> We have the great fortune that we count within our ranks a number of people that have either participated in developing and writing some of these guidelines in the past both in Europe and in the U.S.
or people that have actually called for some of those committees.
We have to understand that those committees act in an independent manner.
For us I think our role is to ensure that these bodies whether it's the ADA or others basically have full access to all of our data.
And we believe that data speaks by itself.
I think it's very compelling.
And when it comes to the overall benefit we do expect that the data is such that it would trigger some of these reviews.
I'm not going to speak later on the outcome of that.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Thanks Enrique Dave? Lilly Bio-Medicines</span></strong> We're going to – I'll just give a quick commercial.
On December 8 I'll have a chance to talk a lot to talk about our Alzheimer's strategy Gregg so you're welcome to join us then.
But in brief we believe Lilly is very well positioned to capitalize on the emerging science in Alzheimer's.
That is primarily focused right now on disease-modifying agents but not exclusively.
And as you know we have disease-modifying agents at every stage of development.
But we also have important preclinical efforts on symptomatic agents because people even with the best-case scenario on disease modification will live with this disease for a long time.
They will suffer from the symptoms of Alzheimer's and we believe there is space there.
We have some expertise there and we'll exploit it.
Our main focus is disease modification but we're interested in agents that could also help patients just live more comfortably or more safely with the disease.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Science and Technology</span></strong> I can add that we have a compound in Phase 1 which it said Parkinson's as the heading but that's also a potential symptomatic treatment for Alzheimer's disease.
And in the preclinical space we also have some efforts that actually build on Lilly's very long experience in the field of psychiatry.
So I think we are well positioned realizing though that it is an uphill battle to understand exactly what mechanist could work then for novel symptomatic treatments in Alzheimer's but we are also very much involved in new ideas then to learn how the brain is functioning in psychiatry.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Jan.
Linda if we can go to the next caller please.
Next we'll go to the line of Seamus Fernandez with Leerink.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much for taking the question so just a couple of quick questions first off for Enrique.
Enrique can you talk to us a little bit about the importance of Basaglar and the decision to settle on this? Was the settlement specifically applied only to the device or does it apply more broadly such that other competitors seeking to enter the market would have to go through the same legal process that Lilly would? And then in terms of – again more of a guidelines follow-up question.
As we think about maybe just the guidelines and timing of guidelines around EMPA-REG can you just update us on which guidelines are the most important? As we've talked to payers and surveyed payers the feedback that they have provided is that guidelines could be what really changes their willingness to place Jardiance in a preferred position onto formularies.
And then just as a final question the performance of the insulin business particularly looks really challenged internationally.
Can you talk in a little bit more detail about that trend and how you see that going forward? Thanks a lot.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great thanks Seamus.
Enrique it's all yours.
Lilly Diabetes</span></strong> Very good let me start with the last question on insulin overall.
There is a trend that has not been discussed much.
But one of the impacts that we see broadly when we look at the macro diabetes market is that insulin growth has basically slowed down.
We see that of course for mealtime insulins.
We believe that both ACOT2 growth and GLP-1 growth is partly the cause of that.
Now having said that when we look at our own performance we grew Humalog 6% in the U.S.
and also 6% outside of the U.S.
different regions with different growth emerging markets of course much higher than that.
When we look at our human insulin Humulin we were basically flat.
We were at minus 1%.
The U.S.
did have positive growth driven by the Humulin U-500.
But we did have a decline in emerging markets as a result of no longer participating in the Brazil tender.
So all in all not big changes when it comes to our overall performance but we do see a slowdown when it comes to the overall insulin market.
You asked about Basaglar.
Clearly this is a very important product for us.
I'm pleased to report that so far our launches I think are going well.
Uptake is very good maybe slightly ahead of our expectations whether it's Japan or Slovakia or the Czech Republic which are the first three markets where we launched the product.
When we look at our performance with Basaglar we look at the entire basal market.
We don't only look at Lantus.
And in Japan when we look at the entire basal analog market we are now at 5.5% two months post-launch.
So very pleased in particular with that performance in very important markets.
Now clearly the settlement that we have with Sanofi gives us certainty which we value very highly.
What the settlement calls for is for us to – we won't be able to sell product until December 15 2016.
That means basically placing our product with a third party from a commercial perspective.
But in the meantime we can indeed contract and we are of course submitting in order to be able to get final approval for this.
You asked specifically about the settlement.
And yes the settlement allows us to basically market and commercialize Basaglar in the KwikPen on a global basis.
Just to remind you the KwikPen is the product that we utilize for Humalog as well and there is a royalty-bearing license specific to the U.S.
when it comes to Basaglar sales in this particular device.
At this point and time we've settled so that's water under the bridge and we are now – have a certainty when it comes to the launch date and we're preparing for that.
You asked about the guidelines and how important this would be and which bodies could issue guidelines.
Of course the American Diabetes Association is a key organization and is one that has issued these type of guidelines.
AACE A-A-C-E which is comprised of endocrinologists also issues guidelines.
I'm not going to comment on the most important guidelines other than to say that we expect that a number of different bodies will be conducting some of these reviews.
There's no question that a change in the guidelines would have a huge impact on the overall performance of Jardiance.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Enrique.
Linda if we can go to the next caller please.
Next we'll go to the line of Colin Bristow with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the questions and nice work on the quarter.
So in light of the breakthrough designation received for abemaciclib could you just talk about the key points of differentiation in the clinical profile of this assets versus palbociclib? And any anticipated timing for the data readouts would helpful.
And another question on the Basaglar: Could you just comment on the pricing relative to Lantus in the launch territories? And acknowledging that it is early are you seeing any switching from Lantus patients or is this purely new patient acquisition? And then just lastly on your PCSK9 can you talk about potential points of differentiation versus the competition and when we would expect any updates on Phase 3 progression? Thanks.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great Colin.
Thank you for the questions.
So we'll go to Sue for the breakthrough designation question on abemaciclib differentiation versus the other marketed drug in the class and also timing for data readouts.
Enrique with what we're seeing in terms of relative pricing to Lantus.
And then Dave and Jan if you'll provide the answer on the PCSK9 that would be great.
Sue? Lilly Oncology</span></strong> Yeah sure.
Clearly we're very excited to have our second breakthrough therapy designation now for abemaciclib.
This designation was based on the Phase 1b cohort expansion that we presented at San Antonio Breast last year.
And this showed single-agent activity a robust response rate acceptable safety profile durability so we have a Phase 2 study that's ongoing.
We hope to replicate that data in that study and we should hear next year and see data on that and hope to present that data at a scientific meeting next year.
We also have as you're aware two Phase 3 studies in breast cancer ongoing.
Again we hope to have data readout on those in 2017 although we do have some interims.
And we have a lung cancer study specifically in KRAS.
With regards to our CDK4 and CDK6 inhibitor we do we believe we have a potential to have a best-in-class inhibitor.
As I said we have single-agent activity.
We are also able to continuously dose this agent which we believe is important given that the whole point of it is to inhibit the cell's cycle so you'd want to continuously do that.
So we believe that that could be an important differentiator for us.
So we look forward to seeing the data and to seeing as I say the single-agent data next year and the Phase 3 data readouts after that.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Thank you Sue.
Enrique? Lilly Diabetes</span></strong> So on Abasaglar or Basaglar in the three countries where we've launched – and I'll briefly just highlight what our share is.
When we look at the entire market in Japan as I mentioned we are at 5.5%.
In the Czech Republic at 3% and in Slovakia it's a small market but I bring it up because we are at 11%.
We've also launched in Germany the UK Sweden Poland so we are really in full launch mode.
I think it's fair to say that the dynamics when it comes to pricing they vary from country to country.
In some cases there is a very formulaic path in terms of what's going to be the pricing that we will receive as a result of launching a biosimiliar.
And that determines the pricing.
Some cases we have discretion in terms of where we price.
It is too early to basically say that – where are these patients coming from.
It is likely that in Slovakia some of these patients are switches because the reimbursement level in Slovakia was lowered when we launched.
And in this particular case patients that are on Lantus my understanding is that they have to the pay the out-of-pocket on some of the difference relative to the Lantus price.
We have to see this story evolve but I think it's fair to say that so far we are pleased with our launch.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great thank you Enrique.
And Dave on the PCSK9? Lilly Bio-Medicines</span></strong> Yeah I think we've talked about this on prior calls so I'll be brief.
We have our Phase 2 program complete.
We believe there are key elements of differentiation for the molecule but as we've evaluated our options as a company we've said we're looking at our strategic options for further development of the product.
We haven't completed that review and so there's no real update on progression or other alternatives at this point.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you Dave.
Science and Technology</span></strong> Yeah and the addition I can make then is this antibody has a longer durability of the LDL-lowering effect than compared to competitors.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Okay thank you Jan.
Linda if we can go to the next caller please.
Next we'll go to the line of Steve Scala with Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Three questions.
When in 2016 are the interim looks for abemaciclib's Phase 3 trials? Maybe you can narrow it down to a half first half/second half.
Secondly what is going on with peglispro and potential further studies? It seems as though we are on a path toward Lilly dropping the drug but maybe you can tell us why that is not the case.
And then thirdly on evacetrapib's ACCELERATE trial what is the explanation for in July the study being deemed not futile and in October the study stated to have no chance of success? Were the analyses done using different criteria or did something bad happen in those three months? Thank you.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Thanks for the questions Steve.
So we'll start off with you Sue for the abemaciclib interim timing question to you Enrique on the peglispro question and then over to Dave on the evacetrapib question from Steve.
So Sue? Lilly Oncology</span></strong> Yeah Steve obviously these are all event-driven so things can change.
But as we look at the Phase 2 data we'd anticipate that we'd get the interim data the first half of the year.
And then for the Phase 3 probably the second half of the year.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Thank you Sue.
Enrique? Lilly Diabetes</span></strong> Sure so just to remind everyone we had of course unprecedented efficacy when it comes to basal insulin peglispro but we had some risks that we felt needed to be discharged with additional clinical trials prior to us being able to make a submission.
What we have shared is that we're engaged in discussion with regulatory authorities as well as our advisers.
Those discussions are ongoing.
We've had some of those discussions with both the FDA and EMEA and are still having some of the discussions with our advisers.
So it is something that I cannot make a comment on right now.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Thanks Enrique.
Dave? Lilly Bio-Medicines</span></strong> Yeah as it relates to evacetrapib and the ACCELERATE study and how we're monitoring that and the interim futility as we said before the study called for a single interim futility analysis.
That was the instructions we gave the independent data monitoring committee.
They conducted that analysis in July and per their charter instructed us to continue the study as planned.
We don't know what their analysis or conclusions were in July other than what they instructed us to do.
A few weeks prior to October first week in October they informed us they were planning to meet again and then shortly thereafter they communicated a new recommendation which was to stop the study for lack of drug effect.
We then looked at their analysis and we agreed with that conclusion.
If you're wondering if there was some big surprise between those dates the data doesn't seem to indicate that.
The independent data monitoring committee's job is to monitor the study on behalf of the patients for safety and making sure we're not subjecting people to study burden when it's unnecessary.
It was their judgment to continue during those two periods and we respect their judgment.
And they need to keep the company blinded to their analysis which they did very well in July.
So that's really all we know and as we look at the data now we agree with their recommendation.
So I think the positive thing is we did call for the interim look and we got to that answer albeit it a few months after we originally specified it.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Dave.
Linda if we can go to the next caller please? Next we'll go to the line of Tony Butler with Guggenheim Partners.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks very much two brief questions one again to Sue.
It's on ramucirumab and the question really is around much like Alimta what has been the primary focus of sales today? Where are you getting traction? Does it continue to be in gastric? What's occurring in colorectal cancer? And the second question is silently Lilly has put together a number of assets outside of TGF-beta in the immuno-oncology space be it bispecifics et cetera.
I'd be interested if you perhaps Jan could frame the overall strategy for what you think you're going to be doing in this space? Thanks very much.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great thank you Tony for the questions.
Sue we'll start off with you for the first question for sure if you want to comment on the second as well.
And then we'll go over to Jan for additional commentary.
Lilly Oncology</span></strong> Sure.
So Tony with regards to the Cyramza launch as you know we've now launched in gastric lung and colorectal in the U.S.
and in gastric in Europe and in Japan.
In the U.S.
we're seeing a use actually in all areas with gastric use in about 40% of patients actually are getting treated now with Cyramza in second-line and beyond.
Opportunity we believe is to continue to grow that in the second line but also we're getting third-line usage and we want to move that up to the second line.
We're seeing about 40% now of the patients that are treated in the U.S.
with Cyramza being in lung cancer in both squamous and in non-squamous.
Clearly lung cancer is getting much more competitive in the second-line setting.
We're continuing to see use and believe and hear that there is a good place for Cyramza in lung cancer going forward.
And we are seeing some usage in colorectal cancer although that isn't our focus.
Our focus is on lung and gastric.
We are seeing some uptake in the U.S.
though in colorectal cancer.
In Europe we have launched in what we call the wave one countries the ones that you get access to and again in gastric cancer we're getting good feedback and good uptake there.
We continue to work through a succession of launches in gastric cancer in Europe.
And in Japan we launched the end of June and feel very good about the uptake in our first quarter in this market.
It is a big opportunity and an unmet need in Japan; there are two to three times the incidence of gastric cancer there versus the U.S.
And the feedback there so far is very good.
Clearly we have a succession of other hopeful approvals and launches in both lung and colorectal around the world to look forward to too.
Thank you Sue.
Lilly Oncology</span></strong> With regards to I-O Jan do you want to comment on...
Science and Technology</span></strong> It's a very exciting area.
And I think the situation today is that it can still be improved.
I think we have seen the beginning here with the response rates up to 20% or somewhat higher but many patients don't really respond very well still.
But what we are doing in this space is to combine our expertise in cell signaling and microenvironment together with other companies' PD-1 axis agent.
And there are numerous clinical trials ongoing which actually you don't see on our pipeline chart but I know Sue and others have been communicated from the oncology business unit.
So I think it's very important to see also then other novel agents.
How can they interact then with the checkpoint axis? In relation to checkpoints we're also very interested in our doing then bispecific antibodies since there are several other checkpoints that haven't been tested yet and having then the PD-1 as one anchor.
And you have seen the recent communication around that.
We're also – want to change the microenvironment with the oral agents and TGF-beta is one of them which is very interesting.
Both potentially as a monotherapy but also then in combination with PD-1s.
We also want to test other microenvironment oral agents which we have in the preclinical space.
And finally it's not only important to activate these cells in the tumor but you need to direct the T cells to the tumor because if you don't have them there checkpoint inhibitors are unlikely to respond.
So we have new activities as we also have communicated with key partners such as Immunocore to actively direct T cells then to tumor-specific antigens which I think represents also a new avenue in immuno-oncology treatments.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Jan.
Linda if we can go to the next caller please.
Next we'll go to the line of David Risinger with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
So I have a number of questions.
I guess first is on sola please.
So with respect to the DSMB looks at sola do they assess futility or is it impossible for the study to be halted early on futility? The second question is with respect to the U.S.
price slide slide 13 I was just hoping that you could explain the few points in a little more detail.
First how it's calculated and then second since the negative impact of generics started at the beginning of the year it wasn't quite clear why the year-to-date pricing is up 3% yet the third quarter pricing is down 4% for the U.S.
business.
I just didn't understand what the inflection was in the third quarter when the negative impact from generics started to be felt quarters ago.
And then third with respect to the BACE Phase 3 decision it seems like you'll be rolling that into Phase 3 but if you could just discuss the variables and timing of that decision that would be helpful.
Thank you.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great Dave.
Thank you for the questions.
Dave Ricks actually since you've got evacetrapib and BACE and also the product that had the dynamic with the shipping to authorized generics if you want to take the lead on answering all three of them then we can complement that would be great.
Lilly Bio-Medicines</span></strong> Okay so let me start with the sola question.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Okay.
Lilly Bio-Medicines</span></strong> Right that was the first one? And make sure I hit all these Phil as we go through it.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Yes.
Lilly Bio-Medicines</span></strong> Or David.
So on sola we have a more standard Data Safety Monitoring Board like we do with many large studies.
Their mission is really one of monitoring safety.
We have I think communicated on prior calls we have not chosen to go for an option to have an interim look specified by the company.
And we would not instruct them to conduct such a review.
I will say that Data Safety Monitoring Boards as we set them up they are independent.
Their mission is to look at study data on behalf of the patients.
And it's not unprecedented that they may call us and say "Well we think you should stop the study." But we have not asked them to do that and we're under no obligation to follow their recommendation.
Based on our observations from EXPEDITION-1 and EXPEDITION-2 and you would note that it took till about 40 weeks to see a drug effect and based on the enrollment curve we have for this we don't see a lot of value in looking at an interim look because we enrolled the study very rapidly and most of the benefit will come in the final months if the study behaves like EXPEDITION-1 and EXPEDITION-2.
So unfortunately we will be waiting until late next year the latest part of next year before we have the answer.
And I would expect the study to run until that time.
On U.S.
pricing you were correct to point out our year-to-date is 3%.
I think that's more indicative of the underlying trend we see which is list price gains net of gross-to-net reductions for all the various mandated and commercial reasons.
The one-time event in Q3 which Phil tried to answer earlier was a shipment to our authorized generics partner.
It's a large shipment.
The way that deal is set up is we book revenue under the terms of that deal for the bulk product that they then distribute creating another option for patients a low-cost option for generic raloxifene.
There's clearly demand for that in the market and we're happy to supply Lilly-made raloxifene with our authorized generic partner.
The way that deal is set you up those shipments happen periodically.
It just happened one occurred in Q3 and it was substantive enough to shift down the Q3 reported price below our ongoing trend.
But I think the year-to-date numbers are more indicative of our trend.
I think your next question was on the BACE inhibitor and what would trigger that into Phase 3.
We've previously communicated that as well with our partner AstraZeneca.
We designed this as a Phase 2/3 program.
We're actively enrolling into the Phase 2 components.
The primary objective of the first interim analysis which we expect to happen in Q1 of 2016 will be a look at safety.
BACE inhibitors while very promising in terms of genetic validation and their pharmacokinetics and dynamics many have gone down on off-target safety.
And so this is a first look at sustained dosing in a reasonably large cohort of people with Alzheimer's.
And that will then trigger expansion of that study and perhaps triggering another study and movement into the Phase 3 component of Lilly's pipeline and advancing to patients.
Was there another question? Thank you.
Lilly Bio-Medicines</span></strong> Okay great.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well done.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Thanks Dave.
Linda if we can go to the next caller please.
Next we'll go to the line of Andrew Baum with Citi.
Please go ahead.
I have two questions.
First (1:20:50) Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Hey Andrew we're having a hard time hearing you.
I'm not sure if you can do anything on your end to improve...
Sorry about that.
Is it any better? Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Yes it is.
Terrific.
Number one what was the baseline for the LDL within ACCELERATE? Apologies if you already disclosed it.
Second I noted that you recently lost your fairly recently appointed head of immuno-oncology.
In terms of replacements and how you're thinking about that I would be interested.
And then finally do you view our CSF1R monoclonal as competitive with others? In particular does it block dimerization and how relevant is that in terms of potential efficacy? Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Andrew thank you for the questions.
At this point in time we have not disclosed – actually maybe we have Dave.
In the paper that was recently published did we have the baseline? Lilly Bio-Medicines</span></strong> The benign paper I do not believe we did.
I think we have commented that the study designed for ACCELERATE to have people come in on a variety of statins that they may have already been on on the maximum tolerated dose.
I'll just qualitatively say that patients who entered the study had LDLs in line with guidelines and they were really already on best standard-of-care statin.
We further reduced LDL as Phil mentioned in the mid-30% on top of that.
That's quite surprising to us and I'm sure the field lack of MACE effect.
We'll be disclosing more data about ACCELERATE everything we've learned and probably more data disclosures after that sometime in 2016 in a major cardiovascular meeting.
Great thanks Dave.
And then Sue on the question on I-O staffing and then the CSF1R molecule? Lilly Oncology</span></strong> Yes you'll have to remind me on the CSF1R question.
With regards to I-O staffing we actually have a really really good team of people in New York and in New Jersey who are focused on I-O.
Michael Kalos heads our research group there.
He came from UPenn.
We've also recently brought in some I-O experience in the medical and the development area.
And we have in our I-O hub that we announced in New York and New Jersey recently moved one of our very experienced drug developers from Lilly.
So we feel very good about the expertise we've got there and we're going to continue to build that internal expertise as well as through the partnerships.
I think we announced over the last year nine different partnerships related to I-O.
So our view is that we will use the external expertise and the internal expertise to continue to drive our I-O experience.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> And then Andrew on your question for CSF1R were you asking whether we're competitive with other agents and if we downregulate something that I did not catch it when you said it.
So my question was whether your monoclonal prevents dimerization of the two receptors and to what extent is that an important competitive element versus other CSF1Rs in development? Lilly Oncology</span></strong> Jan I don't know if you can comment on that.
I can't comment on that.
From a timing perspective we have completed our Phase 1 dose study and now have a dose of CSF1R.
We've just announced actually a collaboration with AstraZeneca to do a combination of their PDL1 with our CSF1R.
So we think from a timing and from a development perspective we're as competitive if not more competitive than other companies.
The specifics around the dimerization we're going to have get back to you on okay? That's okay.
Thank you.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Thank you Andrew.
I think we have time for at least one more question Linda if you can go to the next caller please.
Sure.
Next we'll go to the line of Marc Goodman with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could give us an update on the CGRP program.
And I was curious your thoughts about oral therapy given that there was a trade there and a company actually acquired one and is considering moving forward with that.
And then if you could just give us a little bit more detail on the diabetes product that moved in the pipeline there the URI.
Thanks.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Thank you for the questions Marc.
So Dave if you can comment on the CGPR update and then Dave and/or Jan on the oral approaches for modifying CGRP as well and then to Enrique on the diabetes compound.
Lilly Bio-Medicines</span></strong> Sure yes.
We're excited about our CGRP antibody for two different conditions we're studying or plan to study.
First for cluster headache we announced earlier in the year we've proceeded into Phase 3 and those studies are enrolling as we speak for both chronic and episodic cluster.
And then on migraine we finished our Phase 2b study in the first half of the year and actually read out the results in June.
We saw robust reduction in headache days et cetera and we will be proceeding into Phase 3 imminently.
We're excited about this program.
We think we have a very competitive molecule in a largely underserved space.
In terms of the oral products there has been a long history of researching and attempting to create an oral CGRP inhibitor.
That's proved to be difficult I think for many of our competitors.
We are in the list of people who also have our own program in this area.
We don't have anything to say about that today.
We observed the trade that happened and of course wish them all the luck in the world.
But right now all the data in terms of what looks like druggable CGRP inhibition are antibodies.
Those are the late-stage projects and of course we have one of those.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Good.
Thanks Dave.
Enrique? Lilly Diabetes</span></strong> You are right that it's listed on the pipeline is the BioChaperone that we licensed from Adocia.
So far I think the program is progressing extremely well.
We're very pleased with the results.
And as we continue to get results we'll be sharing them.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Enrique.
Linda let's try to squeeze in one more question if we can before John closes the call for us.
Sure and there was only one more question so perfect.
It's from the line of Jeff Holford with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks very much for squeezing me in.
I know we're ahead of guidance in January.
But previously you have talked about this gross margin line and how there can be some reversal of the benefit we've had this year if we see FX going forward.
So I wonder if Derica if you could just give us a little bit of a hint there.
If we saw FX rates the major rates stay flat going forward into next year just how we might think about that gross margin into next year just so we don't get any big surprises early next year.
Thank you.
Okay.
If you notice on each of our quarterly calls we provide the absolute gross margin but then we also provide a slide in the packet where we illustrate what our gross margin would be without the effect of FX.
And if you're trying to get a sense of what the underlying run rate is our gross margins are really running in that mid-70% range.
And so once all of the FX noise is cleared out which we expect to exhaust that once we move into 2016 you should expect that we're going to be somewhere around that natural run rate of mid-70%.
That's great thanks very much.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Thanks Derica.
And I also like the fact the IR team doesn't have any homework assignments out of the call.
So great we got through the queue this time.
John if you'd like to close the call for us please.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay thanks Phil.
We appreciate everyone's participation in today's call and your continuing interest in our company.
We hope you'll take part on your call on November 11 to discuss the baricitinib data that will be presented at ACR as well as our investor event in Boston on Tuesday December 8 where we'll discuss in detail our Animal Health business and provide a comprehensive overview of our efforts in Alzheimer's disease.
We hope these updates allow you to more fully appreciate the myriad of opportunities before us and why we're bullish on our future.
Finally if you have questions we didn't discuss during today's call please contact our IR team.
They will be standing by.
Thank you and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be made available for replay after 11:30 a.m.
Eastern today through October 29 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T replay system at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 369192.
International participants may dial 1-320-365-3844 and entering the access code 369192.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to our host Dr.
John Lechleiter.
Please go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us for Eli Lilly and Company's fourth quarter 2015 earnings call.
I'm John Lechleiter Lilly's Chairman President and CEO.
Joining me here on the call today are: Derica Rice our Chief Financial Officer; Dr.
Jan Lundberg President of Lilly Research Laboratories; Sue Mahony President of Lilly Oncology; Enrique Conterno President of Lilly Diabetes; Dave Ricks President of Lilly Bio-Medicines; Chito Zulueta President of Emerging Markets; Jeff Simmons President of Elanco Animal Health; and Ilissa Rassner Brad Robling and Phil Johnson of Lilly's IR team.
During this conference call we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on slide 3 and those outlined in our latest Forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community.
It's not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.
So let me begin by recapping key events since our last earnings call in October.
On the commercial front we have received approval for and launched Portrazza in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin in the United States for first-line squamous non-small-cell lung cancer.
On the regulatory front just last week along with Incyte we announced FDA submission of once-daily baricitinib for the treatment of moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis.
We also submitted baricitinib to the European Medicines Agency for the same indication.
Along with Boehringer Ingelheim we received final U.S.
approval for our insulin glargine product Basaglar with launch set for December 15 this year.
We also submitted an 80-unit Basaglar pen for FDA review.
We announced that FDA accepted the filing of data from EMPA-REG OUTCOME the Jardiance cardiovascular outcomes trial.
The data were also submitted to European regulators.
As you may recall Jardiance is the only diabetes medicine to have demonstrated a significant reduction in both cardiovascular risk and cardiovascular death in a dedicated outcomes trial.
And finally we submitted the fixed-dose combination tablet containing empagliflozin and linagliptin to European regulators.
We also received FDA approval for the Humulin Regular U-500 KwikPen.
We received European Commission approval following positive CHMP [Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use] recommendations for Cyramza for both second-line non-small-cell lung cancer and second-line metastatic colorectal cancer.
And Europe's CHMP issued a positive recommendation for approval of Portrazza in first-line EGFR-expressing squamous non-small-cell lung cancer.
On the clinical front we had a number of notable developments.
Along with Boehringer Ingelheim we presented additional data from the EMPA-REG OUTCOME study.
At the American Society of Nephrology initial renal outcomes data were presented that showed empagliflozin when used in addition to standard of care significantly improved renal outcomes compared to standard of care alone.
And we expect more comprehensive renal results to be published in a peer-reviewed scientific journal this year.
And at the American Heart Association further data related to the reduction of heart failure and cardiovascular death were presented.
And earlier this week European Heart Journal published comprehensive heart failure results.
At the World Diabetes Congress we presented data from the AWARD-8 study showing that treatment with Trulicity plus a sulfonylurea produced greater reductions in HbA1c than treatment with a sulfonylurea alone.
Along with Incyte we presented data at the ACR [American College of Rheumatology] meeting from the baricitinib Phase 3 rheumatoid arthritis program including data from the RA-BEGIN study that showed baricitinib was superior to methotrexate in improving multiple measures of the signs and symptoms of RA in treatment-naive patients and data from the RA-BEAM study that showed baricitinib was superior to adalimumab in improving multiple measures of the signs and symptoms of RA in patients who had an inadequate response to methotrexate.
At the ACR annual meeting we presented data from the Phase 3 SPIRIT-P1 ixekizumab study showing that patients with active psoriatic arthritis treated with ixekizumab for 24 weeks achieved significant improvements in signs and symptoms of their disease when compared to placebo.
They also experienced significantly less progression of radiographic structural joint damage reduced disability when performing certain physical functions and improved skin clearance of plaque psoriasis.
Finally we terminated the development of basal insulin peglispro.
On the business development front we extended our agreement with Merck to evaluate Alimta in combination with Keytruda in a Phase 3 study in first-line non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer.
We also announced a collaboration with Merck to evaluate our CDK-4 and CDK-6 inhibitor abemaciclib in combination with Keytruda in multiple tumor types.
And we announced an agreement with Roche Diagnostics related to Roche's ongoing development of a commercially scalable cerebralspinal fluid assay for amyloid-beta 1-42.
In other news we announced an expansion of our R&amp;D facilities here in Indianapolis.
We also announced that we will close our Animal Health manufacturing facility in Sligo Ireland.
Manufacturing operations and commercialization activity will conclude this quarter with full closure targeted by year-end.
As a result of this decision the company will recognize a charge in the first quarter of approximately $100 million.
In addition we decided to exit ownership of our Animal Health manufacturing site in Dundee Scotland.
In the fourth quarter we repurchased roughly $250 million of stock leaving $2.95 billion remaining on our $5 billion plan.
In addition during the fourth quarter we distributed over $500 million to shareholders via our dividend.
And in December we announced a 2% increase in the dividend for 2016.
We remain committed to providing a robust dividend and to returning excess cash to shareholders via share repurchase.
Now I'll turn the call over to Phil for a discussion of our financial performance for the quarter.
Phil? Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</strong> Thanks John.
Before I discuss our Q4 results it may be helpful to review key features of our presentation of GAAP results and non-GAAP measures.
When interpreting our GAAP results and the growth rates versus 2014 keep in mind that 2014 does not include Novartis Animal Health while 2015 includes the operating results of this business as well as all the costs associated with the acquisition.
For our non-GAAP measures we now exclude amortization of intangibles.
And to provide you a better idea of underlying trends in our business we've adjusted our non-GAAP measures for 2014 to exclude the expense associated with amortization of intangibles and to include Novartis Animal Health as if we had closed the acquisition on January 1 2014.
This places 2014 on the same basis upon which we are reporting our financials this year.
Now let's look at our results for the quarter.
Slide 9 provides a summary of our GAAP results.
I'll focus my comments on our non-GAAP adjusted measures to provide insights into the underlying trends in our business.
So please refer to today's earnings release for a detailed description of the year-on-year changes in our fourth quarter reported results.
Moving to slide 10 you can see that Q4 2015 revenue was relatively flat compared to Q4 of 2014 at just under $5.4 billion.
FX continued to provide a significant top line headwind.
Excluding FX our Q4 revenue increased 5% on a non-GAAP basis driven by higher volume for Trulicity Cyramza Humalog and Trajenta the takeback of North American rights for Erbitux and U.S.
prices.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue increased 1 percentage point to 77.3%.
This increase was driven by productivity improvements from our diabetes manufacturing technical agenda efficiencies in other manufacturing processes and increased prices in the U.S.
This quarter the gross margin percent was not affected by changes in foreign exchange rates on international inventories sold as the benefit realized in this year's Q4 was very similar to that realized in Q4 last year.
Excluding this FX effect our gross margin percent increased by 1 percentage point going from 74.7% in last year's quarter to 75.7% this quarter.
As on prior calls you'll find a supplementary slide providing our gross margin percent for the last 10 quarters with and without this FX effect.
Total operating expense defined as the sum of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A increased 5% compared to Q4 of 2014.
Breaking this into its component parts marketing selling and administrative expenses declined 3% while research and development expenses increased 19%.
The reduction in marketing selling and administrative expenses was due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates and continued expense control partially offset by expenses to support recent product launches.
The increase in R&amp;D expense was driven primarily by charges associated with the termination of evacetrapib and basal insulin peglispro and by higher late-stage clinical development costs.
Excluding the termination charges R&amp;D expense increased 8%.
Other income and expense was income of $45 million this quarter.
This represents an improvement of $33 million compared to Q4 2014 primarily due to lower net interest expense.
Our tax rate was 13.5% a decrease of 2.9 percentage points compared to the same quarter last year.
This decrease is primarily due to a discrete tax benefit recognized this quarter.
Also our tax rate in both periods included the full-year benefit of the extension of certain U.S.
tax provisions including the R&amp;D tax credit.
At the bottom line net income decreased 6% and earnings per share decreased 5%.
As I'll discuss in a few moments net income and EPS actually increased when excluding the effect of FX.
And R&amp;D termination charges mentioned earlier were also a headwind.
Slide 11 contains non-GAAP adjusted information for the full year.
At a high level you'll see that full-year revenue decreased 4% as did operating expenses and the gross margin percent grew substantially leading to a double-digit EPS growth.
As with the quarter FX was a big factor on a number of line items.
In a few moments I'll cover our full-year results on a performance basis excluding the effect of foreign exchange.
Slide 12 provides a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS and you'll find additional details on these adjustments on slides 24 and 25.
Now let's take a look at the effect of price rate and volume on Q4 revenue growth.
On slide 13 in the yellow box at the bottom of the page you'll see the flat non-GAAP revenue I mentioned earlier.
The significant strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against many foreign currencies drove this decline as you see the 6% negative effect from FX this quarter.
On a performance basis our worldwide revenue grew 5% this quarter with price growth of 3 percentage points and volume growth of 2 percentage points.
By geography you'll note that U.S.
pharma revenue increased 14% driven by price and to a lesser extent volume.
Humalog Trulicity Cialis Cyramza and Strattera all made substantial contributions to U.S.
pharma revenue growth.
Having completed the takeback of North American rights for Erbitux on October 1 we also benefited from booking a full quarter's end sales of Erbitux.
The decline in EuCan revenue of 17% was primarily driven by the negative effect of foreign exchange while on a constant currency or performance basis EuCan revenue decreased 6%.
This decrease was driven by a substantial reduction in European Cymbalta sales resulting from the loss of data-package exclusivity late in 2014.
Excluding European Cymbalta EuCan sales increased about 3.5% in constant currency terms.
In Japan pharma revenue increased 8% in total driven by mid-teens volume growth while on a constant currency or performance basis Japan revenue increased 16%.
This performance growth is attributable to a number of products chief among them Cyramza and Cymbalta.
Turning to emerging markets we saw revenue decline 12% driven entirely by the negative effect of FX.
On a performance basis emerging markets revenue increased 1% or 4% when adjusting for the Brazil Humulin tender that we had in 2014 but not in 2015.
Also this quarter our pharma revenue in China increased 2% with a volume increase of 5% partially offset by FX.
On a non-GAAP basis again which adjusts 2014 as if we had completed the Novartis Animal Health acquisition on January 1 of that year Elanco Animal Health revenue declined 11%.
Excluding the negative effect of foreign exchange Elanco revenue decreased 5%.
This performance decrease was primarily driven by OUS products.
Turning to slide 14 you can see that FX trimmed full-year non-GAAP revenue growth by 7 percentage points or nearly $1.5 billion.
Excluding FX worldwide revenue grew 4% primarily driven by volume with significant contributions from the U.S.
and Japan.
Moving to slide 15 you'll see the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on our Q4 and full-year 2015 results.
As mentioned earlier this quarter FX was a top line headwind reducing revenue in U.S.
dollars by over five percentage points.
Excluding FX revenue grew nearly 5.5% on a non-GAAP basis.
In performance terms we saw slightly slower growth in cost of sales resulting in somewhat faster growth in gross margin.
Unlike prior quarters this year operating expenses grew a bit faster than revenue on a performance basis this quarter.
Much of the OpEx increase is due to the R&amp;D charges for the termination of evacetrapib and basal insulin peglispro.
Excluding these charges on a performance basis non-GAAP OpEx grew about 4% or roughly 125 basis points slower than revenue.
Excluding FX operating income declined 2% while slightly higher other income and a slightly lower tax rate led to non-GAAP EPS increasing 5%.
Turning to the full year we delivered strong leverage on an operating basis.
Excluding the negative effect of foreign exchange revenue grew 4% on a non-GAAP basis while our operating expenses were flat and EPS increased 14%.
These are outstanding results.
And with that now let me turn the call over to Derica.
Thanks Phil.
Moving on to our pipeline update slide 16 shows our pipeline as of January 25.
Changes since our last earnings call are highlighted with green arrows showing progression and red arrows showing movement out of the portfolio.
In terms of advancement you'll see that necitumumab was approved by the U.S.
FDA for first-line squamous non-small-cell lung cancer.
Baricitinib was submitted in both the U.S.
and Europe for RA and we advanced two biologics and one small molecule into Phase 2 and three biologics began Phase 1 testing.
Since our last update we also terminated development of basal insulin peglispro.
And two Phase 2 molecules exited our portfolio one for termination and one for out-licensing.
You may also have noticed that we provided the mechanism of action for a number of our Phase 1 assets to give you better visibility into where we are focusing our early-stage development work.
The positive pipeline progress we've had over the past few years has brought a number of significant opportunities for lifecycle investments in new indications and line extensions.
Going forward we'll be including a slide like slide 17 in today's presentation that details select new indications and line extensions or NILEX including movement and attrition as we do for our NME pipeline.
We hope this provides you and the investment community with greater visibility into the future potential of our pipeline investments.
As on prior calls I'll recap the progress we've made on the key events we projected for 2015 briefly discuss the key events you should monitor during 2016 and then review our 2016 financial guidance.
Turning to slide 18 we're pleased with the positive progress we've made on the key events we laid out for 2015.
This progress is represented by the large number of green checkmarks you see.
In yellow boxes we've highlighted key events that have occurred since our last earnings call.
We've already discussed many of these earlier in this call.
So let me draw your attention to olaratumab for which we've initiated our FDA rolling submission.
We expect to complete the submission during the first half of the year.
Now reflecting on 2015 it was a landmark year for our innovation efforts.
Among the year's achievements I'd highlight: the reduction in CV risk CV death and all-cause mortality shown by Jardiance in the EMPA-REG OUTCOME study; baricitinib showing superiority to Humira and to methotrexate on many measures of the signs and symptoms of RA; and both olaratumab and abemaciclib receiving Breakthrough Therapy designation from the FDA.
Slide 19 lists key events to watch for in 2016 and we'll update this list on each of our quarterly calls to help you monitor our progress.
Since I discussed this list in detail on our January 5 call I won't go through each item again today.
However I do want to draw your attention to those key events that occurred in the past few weeks.
Specifically we began Phase 3 testing of our CGRP monoclonal antibody for migraine prevention and we submitted baricitinib for rheumatoid arthritis in both the U.S.
and Europe.
In the coming months we look forward to submitting baricitinib also to the Japanese regulators.
We are very pleased with the data generated in the baricitinib Phase 3 RA program.
We believe baricitinib if approved could be best-in-class medicine and could help improve outcomes for patients living with RA.
Now turning to our 2016 financial guidance we are reconfirming the non-GAAP guidance we provided just a few weeks ago on January 5.
We are however updating our GAAP guidance to reflect the decision to close our Animal Health manufacturing facility in Sligo Ireland.
Consequently our GAAP tax rate guidance has been raised by 50 basis points to roughly 21% and our GAAP EPS guidance range has been lowered to a range of $2.83 to $2.93.
In summary 2015 was a strong year both for our underlying financial performance and for continued positive movement of our pipeline.
On a non-GAAP basis excluding FX we drove revenue growth of 4% with growing contributions from recently launched products.
On this same basis our focus on improving productivity resulted in flat operating expenses compared to 2014 which drove 14% EPS growth.
We have strong momentum behind our innovation-based strategy.
Continued execution of this strategy should position us to drive revenue growth and expand margins throughout the balance of this decade and make major contributions to medical progress.
In 2015 we've made steady progress against our strategic objectives driving revenue growth expanding margins sustaining the flow of innovation and deploying capital to create value.
As reflected in our 2016 financial guidance and the key events on tap for the year we expect to make continued progress against each of these goals this year as well.
We entered this post-patent period in a position of strength with launches underway and important science being done in our labs.
And we are very optimistic about the opportunity before us to improve patient lives and create value for shareholders.
Now this concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call over to Phil to moderate our Q&amp;A session.
Okay Phil.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</strong> Thank you Derica.
And based on feedback we received on the last couple of calls those of you who are in the Q&amp;A queue if you could please limit your questions to two or a single two-part question.
And we'll rapidly go through as quickly as we can the questions and hopefully exhaust the queue during the Q&amp;A time.
So with that Val if you can please provide the instructions to the callers for the Q&amp;A session and then we can go to the first caller please.
Thank you.
We have a question from the line of Tim Anderson with Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Thank you a couple of pipeline questions.
On abemaciclib on slide 19 you mention the Phase 2 single-arm readout underneath this category of Phase 3 readouts on the slide.
I think that's the MONARCH 1 trial Phase 2 single-arm not likely to be a registration trial.
But can you tell us how important those findings are in your opinion towards informing the future outlook for that product and how we should think about those results? And then second question on your BACE inhibitor for Alzheimer's still on track to make a go decision in Q2? And would it be safe to assume that a go decision is more likely than a no-go decision or is it really still very much up in the air? Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Tim thank you for the questions and thanks for limiting them to two.
I appreciate that.
So Sue if you'd like to take the question on abemaciclib and then Dave on the BACE inhibitor please.
Sue? Lilly Oncology</span></strong> Yes Tim thanks for the question.
With regards to the MONARCH 1 trial which as you say is the single-arm single-agent abemaciclib study we should get the data on that mid this year final data with some interim data earlier.
As you know we've also got the two Phase 3 studies the MONARCH 2 and MONARCH 3 as well that are in combinations and we should get that data next year with potential interims this year.
We do believe that the single-agent data is an important part.
It's not the whole of course.
We'll be interested in seeing all of the data in breast as well as our lung trial which is ongoing.
But this is specifically looking at abemaciclib as a single-agent.
We've seen robust single-agent activity in our early-phase data our Phase 1 data that we presented previously.
And clearly if we replicate that we think that this could differentiate this product from an efficacy perspective.
So we're excited to see the data and we would hope that we would be able to present that data at a scientific meeting this year.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Sue.
Dave? Yes Tim.
On the BACE inhibitor I think it would be just pure speculation to guess on what the outcome of the interim safety readout is.
Again we're blinded to those events and safety is a difficult thing to predict.
This class has had some issues although some molecules go forward so we're hopeful.
But one thing I can assure you is we will have an announcement in Q2.
I think we have enough patients enrolled in the study and we're looking for exposures to get to that trigger to expand to a Phase 3 for the AMARANTH study.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Thank you Dave and then just one thing Tim to keep in mind.
During 2015 we did get two different of our oncology drugs granted Breakthrough designation.
One of those is olaratumab.
The other in fact was abemaciclib and that was based on the Phase 1b study that was largely monotherapy study.
So again the Phase 3 program should serve as the basis for registration.
And if we do get very strong results in the Phase 2 study as we said before we absolutely would discuss those with the regulators and believe they would be interested in seeing those data.
Val if we can go to the next caller please.
Thank you.
We have a question from the line of Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I'm going to make this two questions.
On Jardiance sales which I believe also included Glyxambi sales were $15 million this quarter actually I think a step down from the previous quarter $60 million for the year.
I'm just surprised that we haven't seen – certainly I would have expected to see some sequential improvement just given all the positive publicity.
And while I understand that the label does not yet include the data from EMPA-REG I'm just wondering what you guys are seeing out there.
Are physicians looking at EMPA-REG as a class effect? Could it be that the SGLT-2 is facing class action lawsuits related to side effects? If you could just talk about what's going on there because I'm surprised that we haven't seen a bigger pickup.
And then just secondly in terms of the label that you expect to get from the FDA what are the scenarios that you see? What is a base case scenario? What is the best case scenario? And what do you think we need to see to drive numbers to reach consensus numbers by 2020? Thanks very much.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Jami.
Enrique those are right up your alley.
Lilly Diabetes</span></strong> Very good.
So Jami you are absolutely right.
Our U.S.
Jardiance revenue is not consistent with the sequential TRx growth that we're basically observing for the overall franchise with just basically 30%.
I had mentioned that before we disclosed the top line results for EMPA-REG OUTCOME.
The franchise was capturing about 15% of the new patients in the SGLT-2 class.
Right now that is the franchise.
As we look at the latest weeks it's capturing over 26% of the new patients.
The reason of the lack of consistency we had a one-time adjustment due to changes in assumptions when it comes to the accrual for the inventory that we have in the channel.
Without that accrual you would have seen revenue growth or sequential revenue growth consistent with the TRx growth.
Now as it relates to when do we expect the new label clearly we have now shared that the FDA has designated this to be a standard review which basically means that we would be launching in the second half of this year.
I'm not in a position to speculate in terms of what the label would read like.
But we clearly are bullish on our data the consistency and the strength of the data.
And we do believe that this is going to have when the FDA takes action this will have a very significant impact on the overall trend of Jardiance and the class in general.
And just can I ask a follow-up? What are you hearing from physicians in terms of interpreting this data as a class effect or applying just to Jardiance? And is this class action lawsuit something we need to be paying attention to? We've seen these class action lawsuits having impacts on other categories of drugs.
So I'm just curious about that.
Thanks.
Lilly Diabetes</span></strong> We are not promoting the new label so it's difficult to say what the reaction from the broad physician population would be.
But we do conduct some targeted market research.
And it is pretty clear to us I think based on the research that we basically have that about half of the physicians believe that this has been proved to be a class effect.
Let's keep in mind there's no evidence of that.
And half believe that this might be a Jardiance type of effect.
So I think the jury is clearly out for the other products but we do have the evidence for Jardiance.
And we think that is going make a huge difference when we basically have the label.
We are seeing actually strength in the overall class.
So I would say that probably the biggest event that we saw impacting the overall growth of the class was some of the warnings when it comes to diabetes ketoacidosis.
So we saw stabilization somewhere in September – October when the EMPA-REG OUTCOME data came out.
And now we're basically seeing class growth.
So I do not believe in any way that – my bullishness in the overall growth of the class continues to be very very high.
Thank you very much.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> One real quick comment.
So in the EMPA-REG OUTCOME study as well the incidence of diabetic ketoacidosis was very low and was actually consistent across the arms as well so I think another data point to add to the discussion for that particular potential side effect.
Val if we can go to the next caller please.
Thank you.
We have a question from the line of Chris Schott with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks for the questions just two here.
First maybe a question for John just updated thoughts on the M&amp;A landscape.
I guess specifically do you see this market volatility as creating some opportunities for Lilly to get more aggressive and look at some assets? And just what's the focus when we think about business development? My second question was on the BACE inhibitors.
And just elaborate a little bit more about how you think about the tradeoff of I guess time to market versus the level of BACE inhibition and dosing when you look at prioritizing the Astra BACE versus the internal low-dose BACE that you have as well.
Thanks very much.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great Chris.
Thank you for the questions.
John you for the M&amp;A.
And then Dave do you want to take the BACE question please? John? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Chris I think the current volatility and generally lower valuations in the biotech sector doesn't change our basic strategy.
We continue to look for small to midsized opportunities that complement the therapeutic areas that we're already in that we know well so I don't think that has changed.
We're certainly not interested in any large-scale M&amp;A.
At the same time there's no question that valuations are more attractive today.
There are some different dynamics going on.
As you know biotech is not biotech.
There's big biotech.
There's medium size and there's nascent or smaller.
And so we're looking across that whole spectrum.
And if opportunity presents itself based on attractive valuation and what we think would represent good value for the company we have the wherewithal to move on that.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Dave on the BACE? Yeah so I think your question is how are we thinking about the two programs and decision-making.
I think you were there on December 8 Chris and we spoke about the theoretical differences in the projects.
We do know that the AZ BACE and the Lilly BACE that's in the clinic have different chemistry.
We really like this target because it's rare to find a genetic validation like this in any disease let alone Alzheimer's which has so much unmet need.
And so we're investing in two different ways to get there.
At the end of the day the decision-making though is going to have to be based on empirical data because the theoretical differences need to play out in man.
So we're collecting those data.
A part of that is the AMARANTH Phase 2 program we're running now and the Phase 1 effort on our own BACE.
And we'll have to see the data before we make a final determination.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great thank you Dave.
Val next caller please.
And we have a question from the line of Tony Butler with Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks very much two questions again on Jardiance.
J&amp;J made comments about changes in the ADA guidelines to include the class.
And I know you've spoken in the past about changes in guidelines as I guess it relates to medical treatment guidelines overall.
So I wondered if you could separate the two and how meaningful one may be over the other.
And then separately on the nephrology data that we will get more readouts later is that package included in the CV outcomes data set or would it be potentially something that is added after regulatory action on the CV outcomes data set for EMPA-REG? Thanks very much.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great Tony.
Thanks for the questions.
Enrique so the two questions will be on the ADA guidelines are there guidelines for Jardiance and the second one is if the nephrology data that we alluded to that was presented in 2015 was part of the submission of the EMPA-REG OUTCOME data.
Lilly Diabetes</span></strong> So let me start with your second question first.
Clearly as part of our submission we really focused on the CV outcomes.
We will be disclosing the outcomes that we saw when it comes to renal outcomes in the very near future.
There is a publication that we're targeting.
We think that the results are also very impressive so we look forward for the possibilities that that may give us when it comes to the future.
As far as guidelines and I really cannot comment on other companies' statements.
But what I can basically say is that we today do not see any significant changes in the treatment guidelines for Type 2 diabetes coming from any of the major societies or associations whether it's ADA or EASD.
Clearly the AACE [American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists] issued new guidelines but they really did not fully incorporate the EMPA-REG OUTCOME data as they were looking at those guidelines – and this package of those – some of those guidelines in early January.
I am pretty confident that the different societies will have a thorough review of the different treatment guidelines.
And I expect as I have mentioned before that that will happen once we basically have a label change in the U.S.
market or in Europe.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Thanks Enrique.
Val next caller please.
And we have a question from the line of Steve Scala with Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I have two questions.
First Novartis said yesterday that when comparing Cosentyx to ixekizumab ixekizumab has higher rates of immunogenicity more injection site reactions and only one or two indications upon approval versus their three.
I'm just wondering what Lilly's rebuttal to Novartis would be.
And then secondly Novartis also said yesterday that its Phase 3 study of ribociclib is quite likely to stop early based on modeling the company has done versus palbociclib.
I imagine Lilly has done similar modeling.
So I'm wondering is Lilly willing to say that there's a good chance that MONARCH 1 stops in the first half of this year when you take the interim look? Thank you.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Steve thanks for the questions.
Dave if you'll take the first one please on some of the Novartis comments around Cosentyx and ixekizumab; and then Sue on the ribociclib question.
Sure.
As you know we're in the final stages of regulatory review on ixekizumab and preparing for launch later this year.
I'm not surprised to hear what they said on their call Steve but I think we can only say for certain that the third one might be true.
Clearly we will launch with psoriasis first.
And we're pursuing psoriatic arthritis as was mentioned on this call as well as ankylosing spondylitis.
Those indications will come later.
That said I think there's really no direct comparisons between the molecules on immunogenicity.
And if you study this issue you'd learn that the assay cut points which are proprietary to each molecule there's really no standard for setting those.
So there's no basis to compare products within a class or even outside the classes on immunogenicity.
I think the most important thing is at the end of the long-term studies how many patients develop neutralizing antibodies to the medicine.
And in the case of ixekizumab that number is around 1% after one year which is very low relative to other immuno-therapies for conditions like psoriasis.
As it relates to injection site reactions you have a similar comparison problem.
There were reported injection site reactions.
It was one of the most frequent issues in our studies but they were mostly mild they were transient and we have good data that shows after the second and third injection those rates drop significantly.
It's important to note that ixekizumab also has far fewer injections than Cosentyx in an annual dosing regimen so fewer opportunities to get that kind of reaction.
So we're confident about our posture as we go to market.
We feel good about our data and the primary basis for that statement is the efficacy we see with ixekizumab which we see as breakthrough and best in class.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Thanks Dave.
Sue? Lilly Oncology</span></strong> Yeah with regard to abemaciclib we will see the data on MONARCH 1 by mid this year the final data with interim data earlier.
Again that is the single-agent data.
That as we mentioned earlier is the data that we got Breakthrough Therapy on.
And depending on what that data looks like we will go to regulatory authorities.
The other two studies are the combination studies and I think they're more comparable.
We will have – or we plan to have final data on those studies next year but we do have interims.
They're high-bar interims.
And clearly depending on what we see there we'll take action accordingly.
I think it's key to note as we see things single-agent activity is important.
We have not seen that kind of robust single-agent activity with other CDK 4/6 inhibitors.
We believe that is due to the relative contribution between the activity against CDK 4 and CDK 6.
The other thing is the continuous dosing.
These are cell cycle inhibitors and so you would hope that you would be able to continuously dose these.
And we have seen that we are able to continuously dose this agent.
So again that's where we will see – we believe could potentially differentiate this from the other two CDK 4/6 inhibitors going forward.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Sue.
Val next caller please.
Thank you.
We have a question from the line of Mark Schoenebaum with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
I was just wondering.
if Donald Trump is elected would that impact your long-term margin guidance Derica? That's not a serious question.
But I've enjoyed John's comments about biotech valuations.
And Chris already got your thoughts on that John but I've also enjoyed following your comments over time on the drug pricing debate.
I think on the last call you said that the industry was preparing to begin to defend itself and I'd just be curious to know if that effort has happened yet and how you see this playing out.
What do you think will actually happen over the next call it two to four years if anything? And then more of a housekeeping question; on Forteo I'd love to know what your longer-term outlook on Forteo is given the dynamics in that market assuming Amgen's sclerostin antibody launches in a year or so and the Radius's PTH-based analog launches.
Should we be thinking about this as a declining asset or are you confident you can hang on to it? And is this still an area of strategic interest for Lilly or is this something that's more secondary? Thank you.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great Mark.
Thanks for the questions.
So John on to you about the industry's actions on the pricing front and how you see this playing out in the next few years.
And then Dave if you'd like to take the question on Forteo please.
John? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay Mark.
Thanks for your question.
I think yes M&amp;A from within our major trade organizations so this would be pharma and bio there have been certainly since the last time we discussed this I think a number of initiatives aimed at putting prices in perspective and then also providing the kind of information that policymakers and key advocacy groups need to have we believe to make sure that this debate remains balanced and that this industry which we all hope in the future can provide cures for things like Alzheimer's cancer and other diseases remains strong and viable in this country.
I think that when you look at it from that aspect the old saying goes facts are stubborn things.
I think when you look at the comparison year that in many cases is being used as ammunition in this debate 2014 as all of you know was a breakout year in terms of pricing driven by the launch of the hep C drugs which in some cases cure up to 90% of the people that take those medicines and the warehousing and in other words the inventory of patients waiting to receive those medicines.
If you go back and look at 2009 to 2013 these are not Lilly's numbers.
This data is from CMS that the overall price of drugs retail and non-retail the price increases in that period lagged significantly overall healthcare inflation.
We felt the pain obviously by the fact that we lost patents on four of our biggest products during that period.
CMS projections out to 2024 show that based on everything we know and everything they can see that the rate of increase in drug prices is going to fall roughly within the same line as the rate of increases in overall healthcare.
So yes I think that's one side of the equation.
The second side of the equation is the consumer aspect.
It's great to talk facts and figures with policymakers.
But if they're hearing from consumers that they got walloped with a huge copay or that they're not able to access medicines they need obviously we're sympathetic and empathetic to that and tuned into that with various patient assistance programs copay assistance et cetera but also I think a continuing push to ensure that everybody in this country has access to quality insurance.
Medicines after all help prevent disease in many cases or treat disease and avoid higher downstream costs.
This is well documented.
I think we've got to keep that in perspective as well.
In terms of what we can expect after the election anybody that thinks they can predict the nomination much less the election right now I'd love to talk to them.
But I think this is going to continue to be an issue or it's going continue to be on the radar screen because of demographics.
And to some extent as people get older they're going to be more and more reliant on our medicines.
I think we've got to continue to demonstrate that there's value in the medicines we bring.
Yes they can be expensive but disease is a lot more expensive and emphasize the fact that low-cost generics which account for over four out of five prescriptions today represent ultimately the legacy of these investment efforts on our part and provide the American consumer with tremendous value.
So I think you can assume the industry is going to continue to maintain an active dialogue with each of the candidates and to work across party lines to make sure that the views that ultimately translate into policy – and that's what we've really got be focused on – remain balanced and factual over time.
So I don't think there's – while I think we are and should be concerned about the rhetoric I think the facts of the underlying story remain very strong.
And I think in surveys of consumers that we've done I think the interest is just as keen in what we can do to prevent or slow down the progression of diseases like Alzheimer's how we gain more incremental – incrementally take more steps in treating and curing cancer.
And even with diabetes what can we do there to go from in essence slowing down the progression of the disease today to perhaps someday abating the complications altogether? Clearly we're working on all of those things and I think that's what people expect us – the research-based industry to do.
And we've got to distinguish the research-based industry from other aspects of this price debate.
Thanks John.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Dave? Sure.
Mark thanks for the question on Forteo not one we always get here but Forteo has been a great product for the company.
We launched it more than 13 years ago.
We're still growing this product really in every geography in the world.
Notably in Asia now we're in double-digit growth in both emerging markets and Japan and in performance terms 5% last quarter.
As we look ahead I would say three things.
First this is a disease that has tremendous under-treatment.
So today in the U.S.
if you have a fracture an osteoporotic fracture less than one in ten women receive an anabolic therapy which is really a problem.
So there's a lot of room for new voices and new mechanisms to improve treatment for severe osteoporosis.
I think sclerostins as a target is a great target.
We have our own asset in the space although moved back to Phase 1 as we look for an acceptable commercial formulation.
Risk/benefit has to be borne out in the larger trials and we'll look forward to seeing that from the competitive program.
But I think there's room for more than one mechanism to build bone in people who suffer from severe osteoporosis and frankly the patients probably need choices.
That all said as we think about our midterm Mark it's important to note that as I'm sure you've already researched the IP on Forteo in the U.S.
and in other major markets really begins to expire at the end of this decade.
So although we would expect continued good performance through the end of the decade around 2019 – 2020 we would expect to see some form of biosimilar or generic competition depending on the geography we're talking about.
Thank you.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> You're welcome.
Val could we have the next caller please? Thank you.
We have a question from Andrew Baum with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Thank you a couple of questions please.
So first to Sue you indicated that you would like to discuss if positive the Phase 2 abemaciclib data.
What confuses me is how the FDA could grant accelerated approval given this trial excludes patients who have had prior exposure to palbo [palbociclib].
Perhaps you can help me understand that.
And then second for Enrique a trial of Jardiance in non-diabetic heart failure patients should we expect Lilly to initiate such a trial this year? And when is the earliest you could expect that data within that indication? Thank you.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great Andrew.
Thanks for the questions.
First Sue if you would and then we'll go to Enrique for the Jardiance question.
Lilly Oncology</span></strong> Yes.
Clearly we first we need to get the data and then we need to decide whether we go to the FDA with regards to that data.
As usual the trial was agreed with the FDA previously.
And although we have seen an uptake on palbo not all patients are getting palbo.
And a lot of these patients are actually pretreated with several different agents.
I think it's five to seven or five-plus.
So I think it's important that it's a specific group of patients where there really is a high unmet need.
And if we see good data in that patient group we feel good that not only would it show single-agent activity and we confirm the Phase 1 data where we saw robust single-agent activity but it also would meet a very important need for these patients.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Sue.
Enrique? Lilly Diabetes</span></strong> Clearly the data for empagliflozin when it comes to heart failure from the EMPA-REG OUTCOME study was very impressive.
There's not much that I can share now other than just to say that you can imagine that we are actively exploring and thinking about this very important opportunity for the brand.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Enrique.
Val could we have the next caller please? We have a question from the line of Gregg Gilbert with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
First on CGRP can you give us some more color on the trial design and the patient population and timeline? And then can you also provide some more detail on what you will explore with the Keytruda and abema [abemaciclib] program? And if you can't give us specifics can you at least talk about where the scientific rationale is most compelling and when we might get some tangible evidence that you're barking up the right tree or not with that combination? Thanks.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great Gregg.
Thanks for the questions.
Dave do you want to talk about CGRP? Jan feel free to chime in if you'd like as well.
And then we'll have maybe Sue take a shot at the second question on the Keytruda-abemaciclib trial.
Great.
Thanks Gregg.
We've initiated now the Phase 3 program for the acute and the chronic migraine – episodic and chronic migraine patients.
This is really not two diseases; it's one disease.
There's a cut point in the way these get classified in terms of frequency of headache.
I think that's similar to what other people are doing.
It's important you note we actually are carrying two doses into the Phase 3 program because we think optimizing efficacy and dosing convenience in a preventative setting like this will be critical.
We like our chances in doing that but want to make sure we have the optimal dose frequency and concentration to get the maximal efficacy.
Those studies are enrolling now and we expect data before the end of 2017.
These are not long studies to study this condition.
The only other reminder I'd throw out there is we do also have a cluster headache program which is both episodic and chronic cluster and that is also enrolling.
We do expect data in the chronic cluster setting this year as was indicated by Derica on the key events slide.
And that will be the first Phase 3 information we have on CGRP.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Dave.
Anything you wanted to add Jan? Science and Technology</span></strong> No.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Okay.
Sue? Lilly Oncology</span></strong> As you know we are doing a number of studies looking at combinations across our internal pipeline of marketed products with immuno-oncology agents.
We believe that combination therapies are going to be important specifically in three areas in cell signaling in the micro environment and also in I-O.
If we're looking at the abema study that's Phase 1 data.
Clearly we're looking at early safety data and potentially efficacy but mainly early safety data with looking at the I-O agents for immune clearing of cells.
And abema induces senescence whether the combination of those would have a beneficial effect.
Inc.</span></strong> (57:33)? Lilly Oncology</span></strong> It's across tumors.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> And we had the press release that went out last year in December that Dave had talked about.
It would be likely to progress to Phase 2; that that would be in patients with metastatic breast cancer or non-small-cell lung cancer.
In terms of timing enrollment begins early 2016.
So certainly I don't think you'd be expecting to see data this year.
That would be into the future and we'll have a better feel for that as we see how enrollment accrues in the trial.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Sure.
Val next caller please.
We have a question from the line of Marc Goodman with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
First can you give us any more color on the three products that achieved the Phase 2 milestones? And then second just two products one Alimta weakness and Humalog strength in the quarter.
Can you give us some color on that? Thanks.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great Marc.
Thanks for the questions.
Jan if you'd like to talk through the Phase 2 entrants and then Sue to talk about Alimta in the U.S.
and Enrique Humalog please.
Jan? Science and Technology</span></strong> Okay.
So let us start with the IL-23 monoclonal antibody for ulcerative colitis.
The whole area of IL-17/IL-23 pathways clearly has strong interest for Lilly with our ixekizumab data in psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis.
And we believe that IL-23 specifically then could be very useful in inflammatory bowel disease based on human genetic data and also some competitor molecule data that are emerging.
So we see these as very complementary to our IL-17 activities.
The BMP-6 antibody in anemia is a new target.
Actually the name is bone morphogenetic protein 6.
And it's really an evolving area in our strategy to look at how can we influence and treat diabetic complications and in this particular case then the anemia in patients with diabetic kidney disease in the advanced stage.
This anemia is iron restricted and hepcidin related and it's very common in dialysis patients.
And the goal here is to potentially replace or reduce the need then for erythropoiesis-stimulating agents which you know have some concerns with CV side effects.
We have seen some promising data in Phase 1 on the iron sequestration and are now looking then for effects on hemoglobin.
The third one is an oral agent and that is p70S6/AKT which is tested in some cancer indications a cell-signaling inhibitor.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great thank you.
Sue on Alimta in the U.S.? Lilly Oncology</span></strong> Yes we did see some competitive pressure on Alimta in Q4.
As we mentioned before Alimta is standard of care in the non-squamous setting.
And with the new agents that are launching particularly in the second-line setting clearly we've got two immuno-oncology agents now.
We've got Cyramza.
We've also got the EGFR third-generation TKIs.
And we are seeing significant competitive activity in the second-line setting.
And we do have – and we're seeing therefore an impact on Alimta in that setting and also in some of the later lines where we're not promoting.
Our focus continues to be to secure Alimta's first-line use and continuation maintenance use.
That's where we'll continue to focus our efforts.
We also believe that we've got actually a very nice offering to thoracic physicians across the thoracic portfolio now in the first-line setting.
In the non-squamous we've got Alimta.
In the squamous we've now got Portrazza with our launch just now just recently and of course with Cyramza across the second-line in both histologies.
So our focus with our dedicated sales force now in the U.S.
focused on thoracic will be to ensure that we continue to establish and secure Alimta's use in the first-line of continuation agents.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Sue.
Enrique on Humalog in the U.S.? Lilly Diabetes</span></strong> Yes so we are very pleased with the performance of Humalog on a global basis.
The product grew 15% in local currency in Q4.
I think this is remarkable given all of the new launches that we basically have ongoing so we are very pleased.
We are gaining share in most key geographies.
A key driver for that is the launch of our Humalog U-200 KwikPen which is basically adding growth to this important brand for us.
When we look specifically at the U.S.
which grew 20% for the quarter we have to keep in mind that we had a negative adjustment in Q4 of last year so this is an easier comparison.
That adjustment was about 10 points.
So if we were to take that out I think – or maybe a better way of saying it it's probably better to look at the entire year as a better reflection of the overall growth for the product in the U.S.
market.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> And that would have been about 9% growth for the full year.
Val if we can go to the next caller please? Thank you.
We have a question from the line of Seamus Fernandez with Leerink.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much just a couple of quick questions for Sue.
Sue can you just give us a reference point for what would be a potential comparator to the abemaciclib MONARCH 1 study data? So as I look at it maybe eribulin might fit into that mix but I think it will be helpful to know what the baseline performance of other agents is in this patient population.
And then separately can you just update us on timing for your TGF antibody and when perhaps we might see data for that combination? We're starting to hear a little bit of interest building for that program.
Thanks.
Lilly Oncology</span></strong> Yeah sure.
With regards to – let me take the second one first.
With regards to the TGF beta we have a number of studies ongoing in Phase 2 as well as combination studies with I-O agents and we should be seeing data on those probably this year and next year.
With regards to abemaciclib again from a single-agent activity if you want to look at a comparator you probably should be looking around eribulin.
I think the key thing around that as well is to look at the other single-agent activity across the other CDKs.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Thank you Sue.
Val if we can go to the next caller please.
Yeah.
We have a question from Colin Bristow with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning and thanks for taking the questions.
So a couple of quick ones.
On baricitinib when do you expect to make and communicate the Phase 3 progression decisions for the diabetic nephropathy indication? And what's your current thinking on the potential there? And then a follow-up on ixekizumab with the upcoming potential approval can you comment on where you are in terms of launch preparations and give us some color on your expectations for launch performance in 2016? Thanks.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Thanks for the questions.
Dave? Sure yes.
As you know we have a number of interesting Phase 2 initiatives to explore future indications for baricitinib.
I would say there's a high priority for the company to work through those and make lifecycle decisions this year on baricitinib.
Diabetic nephropathy is one of them.
The data look strong as presented last year at the American Diabetes Association but I would point out two things that I think are things weighing on our minds.
One is the way in which these studies are conducted under the current regulatory guidance is not the simplest path to market.
The studies can be long.
Patient selection can be difficult and recruitment rates historically in the industry are very low for these studies or slow I should say.
And we need to then balance what looks like strong clinical data against other opportunities we have right now with the molecule in psoriasis.
We have data in – we're studying in atopic dermatitis.
We're looking at several other more immunology indications so to be determined.
I would expect Colin through the year we'll exit the year with lots of clarity on the path to Phase 3 for baricitinib NILEX or line extensions.
Ixekizumab I think we're in great shape.
We're anticipating approval in the world's major markets Japan U.S.
and Europe in this calendar year.
We are prepared to rapidly or immediately after approval commercialize the product.
We think we've got a great value proposition for payers.
We've got a compelling efficacy for patients and the KOLs I talked to are highly interested in the class and in ixekizumab.
And we see actually the class leader doing extremely well I think relative to our expectations.
I think it bodes very well for ixekizumab.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Dave.
Thank you.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Thanks Colin.
Val if we can have the next caller please? We have a question from the line of David Risinger with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks very much.
I have two questions.
First with respect to biosimilar Lantus could you just discuss the pricing and the adoption ramp that you expect ex-U.S.? Basically how aggressively are you competing with that to enhance your diabetes franchise commercially? And then second with respect to the sclerostin could you please discuss the bone-building risks in the skull that some experts have highlighted as risks to watch and your views on them? Thank you.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great Dave.
Thank you for the questions.
So Enrique if you could handle the question for ex-U.S.
biosimilar Lantus.
And then Jan if you'd like to talk about the sclerostin risk that was mentioned.
Enrique? Lilly Diabetes</span></strong> Sure.
So we don't share our future expectations for our products or forecasts but we do know what some of the pricing is in the different markets.
They're public at least the listed prices.
In general we see our biosimilar Basaglar our biosimilar for Lantus Basaglar is 10% to 20% below Lantus.
It's difficult to say because there are sometimes rebates that are given that are not public what the exact price difference might be.
But what I can share is that we're pleased with our performance.
Each country has its own dynamics.
And we basically need to see how this all is going to unfold.
We expect this is going to be an important product for us and clearly complements our overall diabetes portfolio.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Enrique.
Jan? Science and Technology</span></strong> Yeah.
Well as you know sclerostin is actually a target that has some human validation.
And yes there is a very large and heavy skull that people have then if they have a sclerostin mutation then from start of life.
In the treatment setting clearly the ambitions are to treat the patients that haven't really had these genetic defects.
So the likelihood of similar issues I think are clearly much smaller.
And you have to watch though for potential changes in foramina carrying then important nerves and arteries and so on to the head and also potentially middle ear bones which could potentially change hearing.
But what we have seen in our studies with our sclerostin antibody has not involved changes then in skull bones and so on that has had any clinical impact.
Clearly we need more long-term data to see is there a risk or not.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Jan.
Val next caller please.
Thank you.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> You're very welcome David.
Thank you.
We have a question from the line of Vamil Divan with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks so much.
Maybe if I could just touch on two areas that haven't really come up in the Q&amp;A yet.
One is emerging markets and the other one Animal Health.
So emerging markets just curious for your updated thoughts there.
You had 1% constant currency growth I believe this quarter.
Just how do you see the potential for the markets overall? And has your desire or your intention to invest in these markets changed in any way given some of the volatility we've seen over the last several months? And on Animal Health I think it was a 5% decline at constant currency this quarter just maybe a little more color.
You mentioned I think it was more on the ex-U.S.
products but maybe a little more color on what exactly drove that.
And are you still comfortable with the guidance you provided back in December of seeing greater organic growth as we move through this year and getting above the industry growth levels starting next year? Thanks.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great Vamil.
Thank you for the questions.
Chito to you for the emerging markets question.
And then Jeff we'll have you obviously talk about the Animal Health dynamics.
Chito? Sure.
First on the economies for the emerging markets there aren't many as everybody knows bright spots starting last year except perhaps from Mexico given its proximity to the U.S.
And as the economies go so does the healthcare sector in many of the markets.
So we've had a very very tough year even on a constant exchange rate for many of our markets and I think we see that for the next 18 months.
Clearly the one that has had significant decline over the previous years has been China.
The prognosis is we will continue to see about a 4% to 5% market growth in China which is what we had in 2015 and that'll continue perhaps in 2016.
Now that growth could be worse depending on how the Chinese government really implements their whole pricing policies that have been pretty strong and pretty robust in terms of trying to drive prices primarily for off-patent products.
And so for us it's critical that we focus on brands that have significant growth opportunities.
I think there was a question earlier on Forteo.
We see Forteo we're very bullish about Forteo in emerging markets.
We grew mid-teens in 2015.
We expect to accelerate that growth further.
China grew 60% on Forteo.
So we're very bullish and I think there's tremendous opportunity for growth in Forteo for our business.
And so we continue to invest heavily in that brand.
Humalog grew 15% last year for us in the emerging markets.
We expect to accelerate that growth really across the emerging markets.
And then of course you've got the rest of the diabetes portfolio.
Trajenta Jardiance should do very well as well.
Now we are pressured clearly with the products that have lost exclusivity and we've had a number of those patent losses in our key markets primarily Alimta and then recently the rest of our neuroscience portfolio.
So for us the key is to focus on our growth brands.
We need to make sure we are efficient with the resources that we've had and drive our growth agenda and using digital channels and other channels to drive better efficiencies and be more effective in the use of our resources.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Chito.
Jeff? Elanco Animal Health</span></strong> Yes.
Vamil relative to the Animal Health business yes the majority of the decline came from international markets.
It also was isolated to companion animals very consistent with our last few quarters.
We've seen this from increased competition with new entries in the companion animal parasiticide market as well as some distractions as we're still integrating in a couple key European markets.
So those were the key drivers.
I would note though that our U.S.
companion animal business grew in the quarter.
This was due to launch of a couple key new innovations Osurnia for otitis in dogs as well as Interceptor Plus for heartworm.
So as we look at returning to growth we've said clearly in Boston at our investor conference in December we do anticipate to return to growth in 2016 before the impact of FX.
We do see some of the continuation of these trends from 2015 in the first half of 2016 and we'll return to growth at industry levels in the second half.
I would note that when including the impact of FX which will be more significant to Elanco we anticipate 2016 revenues will be roughly flat versus 2015.
I think key drivers that I want to note that will return us to growth and give us a lot of confidence in our long-term future is the successful launch of new innovations.
As we noted we have seven significant innovations that will launch this year and into 2017.
We're starting to see the impact of those already with three approvals and launches already.
And then I think the other is our key growth engines areas such as key emerging geographies companion animal therapeutics vaccines enzymes et cetera.
So those will be the drivers to our launch.
And then I think lastly I'll just say that our excitement on the Novartis deal continues.
We do see at a minimum the $300 million not $200 million but we changed our guidance there to $300 million of savings.
And we saw this with our margins in Q4 go up to 19% from starting the year at 15%.
And we see that moving to low to mid-20% EBIT by the end of 2016.
So this gives us a lot of confidence about the strategic elements of Novartis that are really playing out in the market.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Jeff.
Thanks Vamil.
Val if we can go to the next caller please.
Thank you.
We have a question from Alex Arfaei with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning folks.
Thank you for taking the questions.
First on the recent arrangement with Roche Diagnostics for the commercial beta amyloid test in Alzheimer's disease I'm curious about the timing.
What led you to form this partnership now? And the second question is on Cyramza.
It was below expectations particularly in the U.S.
I'm wondering if that's a function of PD-1 competition in lung cancer.
Or is something going on in gastric cancer? Thank you.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Alex thanks for the questions.
Jan and Dave if you'd like to respond to the Roche deal that was announced and timing for that and our interest in that; and then Sue the Cyramza question please.
Sure.
I'll start on the Roche.
Jan you can jump in.
Yesterday we announced a collaboration with Roche Diagnostics which allows the two of us to see a way for that technology to get to the marketplace.
This is a methodology that runs on the Roche standard diagnostic kit which is pretty well established around the world to measure a beta in CSF of patients in a standardized way.
As we outlined at our Alzheimer's day on December 8 if we move to the mode of saying if sola [solanezumab] is successful we do see a number of challenges in early adoption and in treatment of patients.
One of them will be the detection of amyloid positivity.
And although PET scanning is available in some countries it's not widely available in others.
And so in order to enable patients to have easy and the most convenient access to detect whether they have amyloid positivity this is one step of many we're taking or have taken to expand access to detection of amyloid positivity which is key to sola uptake assuming success.
There's nothing new we know about sola.
This is just part of our market prep which we need to do to get a running start should that be successful.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Dave.
Sue? Lilly Oncology</span></strong> So with regards to Cyramza we had a really good uptake in lung when we launched last year.
We have seen some flattening over the last few months and that is based on the competitive set that we talked about previously.
Of course our course in lung is to continue to identify the patients that we see can benefit from the Cyramza-docetaxel combination.
The feedback that we get from physicians is still very positive when they use Cyramza.
And clearly we need to make sure that we break through the noise in the second-line market with all the competition that's there.
With gastric we continue to have an opportunity.
Clearly gastric is a smaller market in the U.S.
than lung.
We continue to have an opportunity to bring usage from later lines of therapy into the second-line setting and to ensure that the combination data with paclitaxel is well known by the physicians who treat gastric cancer.
And what we are finding is that because gastric cancer is not as prevalent as lung cancer often doctors don't see as many patients and we need to make sure that we continue to go back.
We see that we have an opportunity to continue to grow there.
And with colorectal although that's not a key focus for us in the U.S.
that is actually exceeding our expectations with regards to the uptake.
We are also launching across the globe with Europe.
We're in the second wave of launching in gastric cancer now that we got access and reimbursement.
We also just got approval for lung and colorectal cancer in Europe so we'll be launching those this year.
And we launched mid-last year at the end of June in Japan the gastric cancer indication.
And that launch is going exceedingly well and we are very pleased with both the feedback and the uptake that we're seeing in Japan.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Sue.
Thanks Alex for the questions.
Val if we can go to the next caller please.
Thank you.
We have a question from Richard Purkiss with Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I had a question for Enrique.
If you could just speak to the overall level of discounting in the U.S.
diabetes space going into 2016.
And then a strategic question for John.
Would you change your view on separating Elanco from Lilly if the EXPEDITION-3 study reads out positively? I guess I'm just thinking that there might be different investment return opportunities at that point between Elanco and Lilly's pharma business.
Thanks.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Richard thank you for the questions.
Enrique for you the question on diabetes discount as we're heading into 2016 and John for the Elanco question.
Enrique? Lilly Diabetes</span></strong> Yes first I think the best way to frame this is we really try to ensure that we have appropriate access for our products in the different formularies.
The strength in our portfolio the strength of our brands is really helping us because our payers do want to include products that are basically becoming more relevant for customers that have good outcomes.
And we do have a portfolio of brands that I think is very strong and in fact is gaining share across every class across every region so a very strong performance.
That allows us to basically have maybe a bit more leverage than in the past when it comes to thinking about the type of discount that we basically provide.
I cannot talk about the specific discounts.
But what I can basically say is that we see our pricing basically stable to slightly up in most product categories.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Enrique.
John? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Richard I can't speculate on a hypothetical situation like the one you raised.
I think you can assume that we're working hard across our entire Alzheimer's portfolio with sola in the lead.
We're eagerly anticipating that data in the fourth quarter.
And I think this year we'll really complete the lion's share of the integration of Novartis Animal Health within Elanco.
Getting Elanco back to growth getting us position to take full advantage of our number three global player size is going be our top priority.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks John.
Thanks Richard.
Val next caller please? Thank you.
We have a question from Geoff Meacham with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
I've got one on sola.
So Biogen mentioned yesterday some Phase 3 enrollment challenges with the number of centers with PET scans and identifying prodromal patients.
So obviously you know the first step is to have a positive Phase 3 for EXPEDITION.
But what commercial investments do you think really need be made to accelerate patient identification to help build the market for more active therapies in Alzheimer's? And then a second question on baricitinib clearly you guys are – the BEAM study is part of the NDA.
But down the road how do you guys look at the value of running another head-to-head study to make a stronger claim? Thank you.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Great Geoff.
Thank you for the questions.
Dave those are both yours.
Okay great.
On solanezumab as we were speaking about earlier with the diagnostic test there's no doubt that Alzheimer's is a prevalent condition with horrible outcomes and we need disease-modifying agents.
But again as we pointed out in our December talk the market isn't set up to really treat en masse people with disease-modifying therapies.
One barrier you're pointing out here which is available PET scanning.
Now I think Lilly is in a bit of a unique position here and I think we've demonstrated that pretty clearly in the Phase 3 enrollment world.
We feel we're best in class in the ability to identify patients put them through PET scanning centers and get them in our studies.
EXPEDITION-3 is the most recent example.
We enrolled 2 000 people in 20 months.
But enrollment in a study is small by comparison to getting market acceptance of a drug.
So we're working hard on that issue.
A reminder Amyvid which is the leading mode of detection for amyloid is a Lilly asset approved in Europe and the U.S.
We have the only tau PET detecting technique in the clinic.
That could also have some utility.
And we need to look at the tau sub-study in the sola program.
So we have those assets and I think could invest in a way that would look at the whole rather than the parts.
That puts Lilly in a unique strategic position.
But I do want to continue to emphasize.
I think there are structural barriers to rapid adoption of the technology payer systems even the ability to infuse and have patients treated consistently.
We're working all those thing prudently because we don't have the EXPEDITION-3 outcomes yet but working to put ourselves in a position to maximize the opportunity should it present itself at the end of this year.
And then on bari [baricitinib] I think your question is would we or are we planning to replicate the BEAM study head to head against adalimumab.
At this point we have not announced such plans.
Of course we're always looking at our options but I think the first step now is to get some regulatory feedback on likely label claims from the program we just submitted and we don't know how strong or weak that is right now.
And I think any decision like the one you're suggesting we would want to be informed by the regulatory process.
So we can tackle that one maybe later this year or early next year.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you okay.
Thank you.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> I also believe Geoff that some of the criticism – we had taken this into account as we designed the program for baricitinib on some other trials particularly when they were comparing to Humira is that they were not run on background methotrexate.
We did run this study with Humira on background methotrexate to give it its best shot of performing well.
We think it performed as expected and we're very pleased with the robust result.
We saw baricitinib routinely providing better relief for the signs and symptoms of RA.
So we believe this is a very robust finding.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Val can we go to the next caller please? Yes our last question will come from the line of Damien Conover with Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the question.
I know we're coming up at the end of the call here so I'll make it pretty quick.
I just wanted to ask a question regarding one of the more likely U.S.
pricing reform debates coming up with dual-eligibles.
I know in the past you talked about the impact being similar to potentially the Affordable Care Act reform.
But I was wondering if you could characterize Lilly's maybe extra exposure given the insulin franchise where pricing is particularly different in the Medicaid versus Medicare patient populations.
And then I guess a bigger question regarding the pharma's defense against what might be a more likely potential reform coming up over the next couple years.
Thank you.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</span></strong> Damien thanks for the questions.
John would you like to take those? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think what I can say I think in terms of exposure we're significantly less exposed than we were when we had the big neuroscience psychiatric medical business here.
I'm talking about Cymbalta and Zyprexa.
Clearly we have some exposure not nearly what it was but I think the number you're talking about in terms of the aggregate impact to my knowledge is still correct in terms of approximating the impact to the industry of the fee and the other measures that's a part of the Affordable Care Act of 2010.
And so I think you can assume that on our policy agenda this is at the top of the list.
And we believe that it's bad policy and ultimately for the people affected would be bad medicine.
And we continue to build arguments and to maintain – attempt to maintain support for this not to happen.
Investor Relations Eli Lilly &amp; Co.</strong> Great.
Thanks John.
That does take us to the end of the call.
We do appreciate all of you listening in or listening to the replay.
Your interest in Eli Lilly &amp; Company is very much appreciated.
2015 was an outstanding year for the company both in terms of the strong financial performance as well as substantial pipeline movement and progress that we registered during the year.
We believe 2016 is shaping up to be an exciting year and an important one for implementation of our innovation-based strategy.
We look forward to keeping you appraised of our progress over the course of the year and we hope you have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 11:30 AM today until February 4 2016 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive Playback service at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 383186.
International participants may dial 1-320-365-3844.
Again those numbers 1-800-475-6701 and 1-320-365-3844 entering the access code 383186.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.