Good day and welcome everyone to the Lockheed Martin First Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Sean and good morning.
I'd like to welcome everyone to our First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me today on the call are Bob Stevens our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Statements made in today's call that are not historical fact are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities Law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see today's press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Jerry.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
I'll proceed on the basis that you've had an opportunity to read today's earnings release for first quarter results which I felt provided a good start for 2011 including booking over $12 billion in orders that expanded our backlog to over $80 billion while achieving sales growth of 3%.
Our focus operational tempo quality and overall execution remain strong.
We were again able to generate exceptional cash flow with cash from operations of $1.7 billion.
This robust focus on cash generation continues to be a key element of our strategy to provide sustained return to shareholders while still ensuring appropriate investments in our business.
Since we last spoke with you in January the dynamic change in world events continues to demonstrate the growing spectrum of complex global security requirements faced by our country and our customers.
In addition to ongoing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan instability on the Korean Peninsula an emerging China and a threatening Iran just this past quarter we've seen unprecedented civil demonstrations for democratic reform across Northern Africa and the Middle East tragic earthquakes and tsunamis in Japan and New Zealand requiring an instant humanitarian response and actions to protect civilians in Libya from the risk of widespread massacre by government forces.
These events and others underscore the ongoing and at times unanticipated critical missions that our military must fulfill.
With this velocity of change and the volume and volatility of global events continuing to expand more demands on our military are likely.
For our company these events are having the effect of changing some of the near-term priorities of our international customers delaying for example orders for F-16s in Iraq and C-130Js in the United Arab Emirates while the need for an integrated air and missile defense system in the UAE has been reemphasized and elevated.
On April 15 agreement was reached on the FY '11 appropriations bill ending the continuing resolution that had been in place since the start of the fiscal year that began last October.
The final bill signed into law by the President includes $531 billion for DoD-based budget authority and $158 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations funds.
The resolution of the FY '11 Appropriations Bill was particularly important because it provides the resources and visibility our customers need to maintain their operational focus.
With funding issues resolved we're also able to reaffirm our previously stated financial guidance for calendar year 2011.
Congress is now turning attention to the fiscal '12 defense budget where the President has requested $553 billion for the base budget and $118 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations.
However as we've already seen there'll be much more discussion about the right levels of security investment.
Let me turn to some operational highlights and start with a view of the development production and sustainment of the Joint Strike Fighter which is showing good progress.
On the development program momentum continues to build in flight test.
In the first quarter overall we completed 199 flights against the plan of 142 achieving the highest quarterly level to date.
The maturity of the STOVL aircraft is showing marked improvement completing 101 flights versus a plan of 62 including 61 vertical landings.
The conventional and carrier variants are also performing well and overall test point productivity is ahead of plan and software development continues to meet the revised baseline.
On the production program progress also continues.
The first 2 production aircraft flew for the first time in preparation for a delivery to the United States Air Force that we anticipate will occur over the next couple of weeks.
Low-rate initial production continues to accelerate with 62 aircraft in backlog and we look forward to placing Lot 5 under contract later this year.
Working with our customers and our suppliers we are turning our attention to lowering the cost of producing the jets and the cost of their sustainment over time.
In the quarter Aeronautics also received a $725 million contract extension to provide performance-based logistics for the F-22 Raptor.
This contract extension builds upon our initial contract award in 2008 and is focused on a fleet-wide sustainment program for all 7 operational bases in close partnership with the Air Force.
The goal here is the highest possible aircraft availability and performance at the lowest possible cost.
Turning to Electronic Systems.
2 key new business awards this quarter merit special attention.
In ballistic missile defense we received a contract for $790 million to produce additional Terminal High Altitude Area Defense or THAAD weapon systems for the Missile Defense Agency.
This order will double the number of THAAD systems in the U.S.
inventory from 2 to 4 batteries.
Recall that THAAD was activated in 2008 and is the only missile defense system with the operational flexibility to intercept both inside and outside the atmosphere providing a versatile capability.
THAAD is a key element in our nation's ballistic missile defense system and has generated significant interest by international customers as they seek a proven missile defense capability to counter the growing proliferation of offensive missiles.
Here again we see an excellent illustration of how international work can stabilize programs and where additional volume can directly contribute to cost reduction and affordability goals.
In our Littoral Combat Ship program we received a contract from the United States Navy for $376 million for construction of the second of 10 ships awarded to the Lockheed Martin team in December of 2010.
The Navy's 10-ship award procurement plan provides stability of the program allowing industry to more efficiently meet customer needs for an affordable multi-mission surface ship.
Beyond the 2 ships in our new contract award our second LCS ship at Fort Worth remains on schedule and on budget for delivery to the Navy in 2012.
Moving to the Information Systems &amp; Global Solutions.
We achieved a key operational milestone this quarter on the next-generation identification system for the FBI.
The FBI announced achievement of initial operational capability on the NGI systems' ability to process fingerprint identification more effectively and more accurately which will help in solving investigations faster preventing future crimes and apprehending more criminals and terrorists.
We're really proud of the ongoing partnership we've had with the FBI since 1999 in this key area of law enforcement.
In Space Systems we received a contract from the United States Navy for $340 million for the fifth satellite in the mobile user objective system or MUOS constellation.
When operational MUOS will replace the current ultra high-frequency follow-on system and provide 10x more capability in assured communications including simultaneous voice video and data for forces on the move.
Operationally a key milestone was achieved with the shipment of the first Orion spacecraft structure from the New Orleans facility to our Denver test facilities.
This delivery milestone supports the objective of Orion's first crewed mission by 2016.
Across our business we're focused on program execution and cost reduction while maintaining quality.
This is a challenging environment.
But we have a strong and well-positioned portfolio of products that address the critical need of domestic and international customers in a complex global security environment.
And we have talent throughout our workforce and a culture that challenges one another to do better and set the bar higher.
I'm very grateful to be able to work in a community of people who recognize our ability to contribute and want to do more.
Let me turn the call over to Bruce now to provide some additional detail on our first quarter financial results and our outlook for 2011 and then we'll open the call for discussion.
Bruce? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As I highlight our key financial accomplishments please refer to the web charts we've included today.
Let's begin with Chart 3 and an overview of our first quarter.
We grew sales for the quarter by 3% which is noteworthy given that the continuing resolution lasted beyond the end of the quarter.
Our EPS from continuing operations grew by 12% compared to last year driven by higher sales volume higher segment margins and lower share count.
We generated $1.7 billion in cash from operations a record level for the company surpassing the previous record from the first quarter of 2010.
We also grew backlog to more than $80 billion with a significant portion of the growth driven by additional efforts to complete the F-35 development program.
So we're off to a strong start in 2011.
Turning to Chart 4.
We'll look at sales by the 4 business areas.
2 of the 4 business areas grew in the quarter led by Aeronautics with 8% growth and Electronic Systems with 6% growth.
Aero's growth was driven by the F-35 and C-130 programs while Electronic Systems grew in all 3 lines of business.
Both IS&amp;GS and Space had lower sales in the quarter with IS&amp;GS reflecting the absence of the U.S.
census activity that finished last year.
Space Systems was lower due to reduced activity on the Orion crew exploration vehicle and lower sales for the External Tank program resulting from the upcoming end of shuttle operations.
Moving to Chart 5 and our earnings per share in the quarter.
Our earnings from continuing operations grew 12% over last year's level.
Adjusting for the FAS/CAS impact to both quarters and the Medicare Part D charge that occurred in last year's first quarter our EPS grew by 9% with the Medicare Part D impact essentially offsetting the increase in FAS/CAS expense between the 2 time periods.
As I said earlier the resulting increase was driven by higher sales volume improved segment margins and lower share count compared to last year.
Looking at cash from operations on Chart 6.
Cash generation was very strong at $1.7 billion again the highest cash the company has ever generated in a quarter.
With our capital expenditures staying consistent with last year's level free cash flow of $1.6 billion was also a record.
As you would expect cash generation in the quarter will be lower as we progress throughout the rest of the year.
I would expect the second quarter to be our lowest for the year as we had over $1 billion in planned disbursements including 2 tax payments a pension contribution and the payments owed under the voluntary executive separation program.
On Chart 7 you will see our recent backlog levels compared with the results this quarter.
Again we grew backlog to the $80 billion level driven mostly by the additional developmental efforts for the F-35 resulting from the recommendations of the technical baseline review.
Looking forward I would expect backlog level at the end of the year to be very close to where we ended the year in 2010.
Chart 8 shows 15 of our largest programs which represent around 45% of our sales in 2011 and how we view the future opportunities for growth in these programs over the next 2 to 3 years.
As you can see with the exception of the F-22 program we believe that these large programs are either stable or growing in the near future.
Going forward with the future budget pressures we are likely to face the strength of the portfolio is going to be the key determinant as to which companies can experience growth in that environment versus which cannot.
Clearly the days of enough budget growth to enable every farm in the industry to grow are over.
We believe our portfolio is strong and well-positioned to succeed in that environment.
Moving to Chart 9 we will show our guidance changes in the quarter.
We increased both our EPS guidance and cash from operations as a result of the favorable resolution of several prior year tax matters.
As a result EPS was increased $0.25 to a new range of $6.95 to $7.25 per share and cash from operations was increased by $100 million to a new level of $4.1 billion.
I should point out that the resolution of these tax matters actually occurred in the month of April and when you see the impact of these items in our second quarter results it will be reflected as an unusual event.
Finally on Chart 10 we summarized the quarter.
Again we're off to a good start in 2011 led by a very strong cash generation which gives us great flexibility going forward.
I think we're well positioned to achieve our goals set for the year though I would point out that the phasing of some of our objectives such as cash will clearly not be linear for the rest of the year.
And finally with the threat of a government shutdown behind us we can focus on meeting or potentially improving upon our financial outlook for the year.
With that I think we're ready for your questions.
Sean? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Richard Safran with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> I just wanted to ask if you look at your share buybacks just relative to prior years the $3.5 million that you did this quarter just appears to be a bit lower than you what you've done before.
So I just wanted to know is this reflecting some conservatism in your part.
If you could also -- if you could comment on what expectation should be for buybacks for the rest of the year.
Thanks Rich.
This is Bruce I'll answer that one.
To begin with we did $281 million of repurchases in the quarter.
So we're actually ahead of the pace to achieve the $1 billion in repurchases that we had in our guidance.
Having said that it probably was somewhat lighter than it might have been otherwise and probably there were a couple of reasons that drove that.
First as we near the end of the quarter the first quarter it became clear that the government shutdown was a real possibility.
And frankly we believe that a less-disruptive path both for our employees and our customers was for us to sort of just press on business as usual.
We believe that a shutdown if it actually occurred would be short-lived but we wanted to have enough cash to fund the activities in the event that that a shutdown did actually occur.
And right in the middle of this we knew we had some large disbursements that need to be made in the second quarter such as the ones I mentioned the best payouts the taxes 2 tax payments and a pension contribution and those needed to get paid whether we were getting paid during government shutdown or not.
So we wanted to have the flexibility to deal with those as well.
So overall we've not changed our approach just to how we plan to return of cash to shareholders either for repurchases or for that matter for dividend increases as we look later this year.
Our next question comes from Jason Gursky with Citi Investments.
Just a follow-up to that question.
You've got $3.9 billion in cash.
You've spoken about having $2 billion in excess cash.
You're getting set to generate roughly $3.5 billion in free cash this year.
At what point are we going to see an acceleration of money coming back to shareholders either through share repurchases or through an increase in the dividend? I think clearly you've got plenty of dry powder here so to speak and I think as the prior questioner alluded to I think expectations were that things were going to be a little bit more robust than what we've seen in the first quarter.
Can you just talk a little bit about are those numbers right at this point and what you see going forward and getting that excess cash back to shareholders? Yes Jason I'll try that one as well.
As I said to Rich's question previously I think the first quarter was probably a little lighter than it might otherwise been had we not seen the potentiality at least of the government shutdown occurring.
I still feel very strongly that we are going to follow suit for what we've done in the past relative to both share repurchases and dividend increases.
We always take a look at the dividend increase in our September board meeting.
That is our expectation is that we'll do that again and during that time frame so you won't see anything happen sooner than that.
And repurchases without getting into specifically what we're going to do on a monthly or quarterly basis Jason I think the history of what we've done in the past speaks for what we're going to do throughout the rest of this year.
Our next question comes from Eric Hugel with Stephens.
Just a quick question with regards to sort of what's going on in Japan especially considering most of your products are so heavily into electronics.
Are you having any issues sort of with availability or pricing of electronic components? Eric this is Bob Stevens.
No we are not.
We're seeing no disruption in our supply chain.
Of course as embedded in your question we're paying very considerable attention to the durability of that supply chain over time.
But we're not seeing any disruption here.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Certainly.
Our next question comes from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> On the F-35 the program leaderships recently stated that you received only $7 million of $35 million of available award fee last year and also commented that there's about $370 million available this year.
Could you talk about what your expectations are now in terms of what you think you can receive how the program is performing with respect to capturing that award fee.
Well I think the [Vice] Admiral [David] Venlet's comment about earning $7 million of $35 million last year is accurate.
We achieved 1 milestone against which there was the $7 million earn out.
This year we have $52.5 million of award fee earning potential that are spread across 5 milestones that we and our customers believe to be critical in demonstrating forward progress on the program and enabling future activities to flow smoothly in this environment.
The first milestone is completion of all structural tests completion of the carrier version suitability testing at Lakehurst New Jersey.
This is for carrier suitability.
Releasing the Block 2 flight test software updated to the flight test program having the STOVL version the F-35 B model engage in C trials and getting that aircraft out to the ship and finally releasing the Block 1.0 training update to the Eglin Air Force Base training facility.
Each of these milestones is achievable.
Each of them has $10.5 million of award fee potential associated with it and it's ours to work toward and earn.
And I think we'll be able to discreetly measure progress against that.
The remainder of the award fee pool we believe through future negotiations will be allocated in a similar way to milestones that are perceived as being critical to demonstrate the performance of the airplane and bring the production airplanes forward into their initial operational capability.
We'll keep you advised as information becomes available on how well we're performing against these milestones.
Our next question comes from Robert Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Bruce you talked about backlog settling at around the $78 billion at the end of this year that you had at the end of last year roughly flat.
How should we think about this by segment? And Bob do you see any further portfolio shaping? I'll start off.
Maybe just to give a little color on the phasing of the backlog in total first for the year.
I think we're going to probably come down just a little bit in the second quarter from where we are right now.
And if you look at historically we tend to drop -- third quarter tends to be our lowest quarter for orders out of all the quarters of the year and then we kind of bounce back typically in the fourth quarter.
I would expect that we will see a very similar picture as far as the phasing of backlog for the year.
As far as by the segments and their concern I would expect to see that Aeronautics will actually have growth and backlog for the full year as will Electronic Systems.
Space will likely see some reduction in backlog somewhat dependent upon the win or not in the GMDS the ground-based missile defense system competition that's coming up later this year.
And IS&amp;GS is likely going to be a little flattish relative to backlog as from where they ended in 2010.
And I'll turn it over to Bob for his side.
Thanks Bruce.
I like our portfolio.
Of course we've worked over time to fashion it to have the content that it has today.
We think given the strength of the portfolio we have the ability to focus on good execution and if we focus on good execution we should see future growth.
So I don't want to signal to you any unhappiness with the portfolio we have.
But as a matter of business discipline and process we have a continuing assessment of the quality of this portfolio its relevance in the strategic environment for our domestic and international customers in the markets that we serve today and in the adjacent horizon markets that we might want to become more active in tomorrow.
So there is an ongoing process here to evaluate this portfolio and to shape it appropriately.
But I don't want to convey to you any dissatisfaction with the quality of the portfolio or our judgment with the substance that we have and the maturity that we have.
And given the relevance and priorities of the programs and capabilities to meet demanding customer missions if we execute effectively we ought to be able to grow the business and maintain the health of the portfolio.
Our next question comes from Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Yes Bob actually somewhat harking off what you just said when we dissect the parts of IS&amp;GS it kind of buried in it Intel looks like it's trending down even actually EIG.
So there's 1 area where defense budget growth should remain significantly above the total.
It's probably in Intel which sort of raises the question what areas are you losing ground on or are you satisfied with internal performance and your wins there or is there a customer problem or is it a budget timing issue? Well I think there's a little bit of maybe all of the above.
It's got a lot more to do with the specific program of GeoScout maturity and the delivery of mission components under the GeoScout program which is trending the Intel down.
I mean you're correct in your assessment that Intel is trending down.
But let me say again that the quality of the Intel work that we're doing and the significance of that work to a broader intelligence community customer is a great value to us and great value to them.
So while we're seeing a little downward trending here that shouldn't really convey a dissatisfaction on our part with the overall Intel community.
And Heidi I think 1 of the things we all look at in the future is how exactly will the great need to address the cybersecurity environment mature over time and how can we with our extensive experience in the cyber domain not just with the Intelligence communities but really across the entire breadth of the federal government how can we bring that experience in a greatly focused way to make real contributions to greater security in the cyber domain.
That's a question that I think is getting answered with the passage of time.
There's not a discrete answer today but we are focused on that.
And in 2 ways I mean there's the infrastructure component.
What modifications will be necessary in the cyber domain to assure safety and security there and then in mission areas the applications part where we have considerable strength across the company.
So I think that will also be a part of the overall intelligence community story that we will write and tell over time.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
My question is on the 8-K you filed a few days ago on compensation.
And there were 2 metrics that were mentioned.
One was operating cash flow.
It's going to be very important this year then there's ROIC.
My questions are why were these 2 selected in particular? And then obviously operating cash flow is very easy for us to track but I'm wondering if you could provide -- since you no longer provide ROIC in your earnings statement I'm wondering how that's tracking for the year.
Yes the reason it was done Joe is that our management development compensation committee specifically and the board generally do very much want to listen to our investors to understand their specific points of view about tying our compensation to performance and the board is very serious about this and I hope you all have a sense that they are.
And in listening to the discussion associated with performance they thought it was advisable for me personally to tie my eligibility for options to in essence a double trigger not just options with best over time but having to meet very specific performance-based objectives.
And I'm entirely okay with that because this is a pay-for-performance environment for me and every member of the leadership team here.
The 2 parameters operating cash and returns on investment were selected because we and the board believe that they are the most critical drivers of shareholder value and I will tell you if you like $1.7 billion in operating cash in the quarter if you like the allocation of cash and the way that we allocate it to drive superior returns I think that you and others would want to hear a management team talking in terms of shareholder value in addition to delivering value to customers.
And I think that closes the equation pretty well.
So that is why it is done.
We do give you a significant information on our cash generation and that we can certainly provide information about returns on invested capital.
Joe I'll piggyback from what Bob just said.
The metrics that we use that we have been using in the past for our long-term incentive program have always been cash and return on invested capital.
The ROIC portion of that has always been an annual metric.
That's what the metric will be for what was filed on the 8-K as well and so we're not going to show the quarterly performance if you will because it's not necessarily aligned with the annual numbers that we've put in place for the compensation.
We will definitely show that as we get towards the end of the year in terms of the expectation and the actual ROIC performance for the year such that you can compare that back to the 8-K.
Our next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> Bob you made some comments about the push out of F-16s and C-130Js and maybe the mentioned potential acceleration of air defense.
Could you give us a little bit more color on what's happening there what stuff is moving on and why what stuff might be moving forward and why and timeframes in which we might get some of these orders? Yes certainly and I don't think you're going to see a wholesale movement in the orders.
But quite specifically Cai we've in conversations been advised by the leadership in the United Arab Emirates that they want to postpone their order placement of 12 C-130Js and take that discussion up at a future time.
Within that very same discussion or in that environment around those discussions reemphasized and elevated the need for an air and missile defense system because of the observation of the proliferation of offensive missile systems in a region of the world that as we all see today is highly volatile and risky.
With the case that I mentioned in Iraq around which there was an LOA for 18 F-16 aircraft the Iraqis this year reallocated those funds for domestic purposes rather than security purposes.
Our sense here is that we will reinvigorate those discussions about the 18 F-16s during the balance of this year and probably have more to talk about in 2012 about that likely order placement.
These are rough approximations.
So I would think the air and missile defense is going to hold the schedule and that the C-130s will be phased out through the Emirates.
The good news about C-130s I think generally is there are pretty high-demand aircraft that are giving really exceptional service in their mission capabilities and then we'll come back and talk to the Iraqis about F-16s later on this year presumably for an order next year.
Our next question comes from Rob Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC</strong> Bob I was wondering if you could comment on what you thought the impact of the CR was this quarter and how you think the rest of your year will now progress as the government sort of gets back to work.
Rob well I think and hopefully we convey this to you clearly as we were concluding the government fiscal '10 and watching the activities for government fiscal '11 we anticipated the likelihood of a continuing resolution.
Of course the difficulty for us and you and everybody is estimating the duration of the continuing resolution.
We and others make assumptions about what the climate is like and what the likely debate will be and what the timing around a conclusion of the CR would be.
We did not think for example a CR would be in effect for the full year.
But we did think the CR would be in effect for a while.
We incorporated those assumptions about timing and content and the ability to proceed into our planning into our guidance into our discussions with you.
As Bruce mentioned earlier in his remarks what we also elected to do believing that sometimes CRs don't end on a date certain but have some additional extensions.
We felt it would be unacceptable and ill-advised to have a disruption in the focus of our professional teams as we are executing against our program commitments for the want of extensions to the CR that we believe wouldn't be long-term extensions.
So I think what you were seeing are our ability to reaffirm our guidance is that our assumptions were pretty close to the mark as to the overall timing and content had that continuing resolution not resolve the way it had on April 15 we'd be having a different conversation with you today.
And I'm quite sure our customers would be subjected to an enormously more difficult operating environment because under these CRs the customers are compelled to replan and replan and replan and replan almost on a cash to cash basis for the content of their operations which is enormously demanding and time-consuming for them.
So we were really gratified that the CR was resolved foremost for our customers' interest and then also the resolution of that CR was more or less right on our timing expectation for the resolution of that CR.
We've been asked what's the likelihood of a CR in 2012 and we don't know and we'll probably have that conversation as we talk more about our year unfolding with you.
Our next question comes from George Shapiro of Access 342.
Probably for you Bruce.
If I look at the Aeronautics margin this quarter it was $10.4 billion and the guidance is basically about $10.7 billion and you disclosed a lot of details to what went up and what went down.
But my question is was there any change in the booking rates this quarter? And how should that margin progress for the rest of the year and then also if you might give an update on what revenues you're looking for for the F-35 given the change in schedule.
Well thanks George.
I hope you were pleased.
It sounds like you were with -- we did change our press release somewhat to have a little more detail into the programmatics by the segment.
I hope that was useful and to all the callers today.
Relative to Aero and the margins in the first quarter I tried to tee up in the January call that the delivery of C-130 and in particular F-16s were more back-end loaded in the year.
They were not linear by any stretch.
And so for instance C-130s 2/3 of deliveries on C-130 are on the second half of the year and more than 50% of F-16s are in the second half of the year.
And so to a large extent what you're seeing in the first quarter is sort of the absence of what's going to happen for the rest of the year relative to the higher margin C-130 and the higher margin F-16 business.
There was not a significant difference between profit adjustments first quarter last year versus first quarter this year.
The 1 exception to that might be last year if you recall we did have in the early Low-Rate Initial Production contract from the F-35 we actually had some step-ups a year ago.
And those were not replicated in the current quarter.
Other than that again I think we're fairly consistent from an overall booking perspective quarter-to-quarter.
As far as U.S.
F-35 growth for the year I still think we're looking at just about $1 billion of total growth from the 2010 level of F-35 sales to what we're expecting to see in 2011.
And you should think of that as being less than what probably 45% or so of the sales of the Aeronautics Corporation Aeronautics business area in total.
So growing fairly consistently as we predicted even with the little slower ramp rate on the production in large part because the development contract has in fact extended out to the right as well.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Bob I'd like you if you could talk about how the benefits of VESP started to show up in terms of what you're seeing in operational flexibility and improved profitability.
And then if you also might address the congressional language in the appropriations bill about eliminating some of these undefinitized contacts and how that might also help you.
Yes thank you Howard.
So we've described to you a series of actions that we began last year with considerable earnest really oriented around the discussion about affordability and affordability initiatives.
We've heard Secretary [Robert] Gates [Under] Secretary [Ashton] Carter and others in the Department of Defense talk about them provide some outlines some general orientation some specific objectives.
We felt it was incumbent on us as partners in these mission areas to develop our own set of affordability initiatives.
They involve facilities consolidations reducing expenses travel airshows we just highlighted because it's kind of a higher visibility thing the voluntary executive separation program and scrubbing all expenditures and all budgets here.
The reason is the seriousness of purpose that we know and share about the new reality that we're in where these global security demands are going to stay substantially high and the resources that are available to meet the demands are going to come down and we need to do our part.
I would tell you our sense back then and our sense now is let's get an early start let's make significant moves on our part on the recognition that will take some time to see the effect of these changes in both the cost of our products to our customers and our ability to generate returns for our shareholders.
I'll tell you I think we're starting to see the effect and it would be I think an observation Howard that you would find familiar after taking these actions but there should be more to come.
In the interim we are looking at what additional actions we can take because I think this is going to be an environment where continuous improvement and continuous reduction is necessary.
I'll just offer 1 cautionary tone.
We've been in this business a long time.
I personally have done it a long time.
I've gone through a lot of cost reduction initiatives.
It's very important not to cut programs in a way that reduce their quality or their ability to perform over time.
And I'll tell you some of this can be a little insidious so we're trying to bring all our experience forward.
Because if you cut spares if you cut CAS or applications in some area you won't see the adverse effect of those reductions in cost now.
But you will see diminished mission capability diminished operational availability more cost falling into operations and maintenance because we have a longer sparing cycle and so forth.
So I think we are in a good position to communicate our experiences here with our customers and I think that dialogue is going to be ongoing.
So expect more of the same with regard to a focus on cost take out for us.
Relative to undefinitized contract actions I think you know that we would prefer to be in a position of developing a proposal submitting it and negotiating it fully and completely before we begin the execution on the mission capability that's defined in the contracts.
But there are extension fees to date that I think appropriately drive our customers to want to move out with greater velocity and try to do some things in parallel and that's how you end up with a portfolio of undefinitized contract actions.
I think that we can professionally respond in either environment.
We're certainly supportive of reducing the number of undefinitized contract actions as the line which suggests.
I think our customers would like to do that but I also know our customers are faced with some of these enormously demanding challenges where they've got to take actions change direction perhaps buy some new things perhaps change the acquisition of things they're pursuing.
And that's what the UCA [ph] is for and I think if they use it judiciously and in a disciplined way we can certainly contribute in that regard.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Just a first clarification on the slide that has your portfolio of programs with growth stable and down.
What's the base here that you're thinking about for that growth? And the other kind of clarification is can you give us some color if over the last 12 months the kind of pace of the programs that are in the growth category which ones have accelerated and which ones have decelerated? Miles I'll try a shot at this.
I hope you found this chart useful.
I think it's 1 of the things that as we look at our portfolio and maybe the portfolios of others 1 of the things that we have is a lot of high-dollar programs that a lot of the other peers in the industry do not have.
And what we were trying to do with this chart is to give the opportunity to say these are some of the bigger-ticket programs in the portfolio and this is our view of how these programs are going to perform over the next 2 or 3 years with the base year to your question being 2011.
And our action is even go out and take a look at the budget data yourself and convince yourself as you see fit as to whether or not these programs are appropriately aligned in the categories that we've put them in.
But again these are big drivers of the overall sales in the corporation.
I think if I was to go kind of around the horn if I understood your question on the green category and say which ones are growing faster or lower or slower than others F-35 obviously is going to continue to ramp up as we've said for at least the foreseeable future until we hit sort of the peak production rate.
C-130J has got at least another year before likely probably peak at the production rate of 36 aircraft a year and then it'll likely be fairly constant for at least a few years after that at that level.
F-16 we've talked about in the past is going to spike in 2012 with likely about 40 aircraft deliveries for the year and then we've got some work to do in 2013 to keep that number back up there or else it will in fact drop off at that level.
Aegis is likely going to see some growth as we see in particular the Aegis Ashore but also the retrofit of some of the DDG 51s and the destroyers in the U.S.
Navy.
Patriot and THAAD are lumped together and say those we expect to have growth over the next 2 3 years as well.
LCS again once we get ramped up at the 2 shipped per year level which I would guess we won't get in that sort of that steady state until the 2012 time frame would be my expectation.
And then we'll stay fairly constant there as we build out the other  expectedly at least 10 ships in the options.
And then Advanced EHF [Advanced Extremely High Frequency] is likely going to see a little bit of growth.
We've got another couple of I think vehicles 4 through 6 coming up and awards in the not-too-distant future that'll keep and those will be higher-dollar awards than the previous satellite.
So I think there's going to be some growth there.
And then GPS III obviously is really just not quite in its infancy stage but very early in its development program.
I think we just completed the critical design review and we're still a ways away from production.
So that one's got its future growth out in front of it.
I hope that helps Miles.
Our next question comes from David Strauss of UBS.
A follow-up to that Bruce.
Could you talk about the 9 programs that you have listed here as growth? Can you talk about what percentage of the portfolio they represent in terms of revenues today? And given what you see on this chart what does it mean overall for the margin profile of the company? And then a quick follow-up on ES [Electronic Systems].
Could you comment? It looks like growth came in better than you would have thought in the first quarter yet you kept your guidance for ES sales growth unchanged for the year which implies down from here.
If you could just comment on that.
Thanks.
Thanks David for the questions.
There's only a little over the top of my head.
The top programs in the green category on that chart are probably -- I'm trying to do math in my head here.
I going to guess they are less than the 40% levels of overall sales in the corporation.
That's 9 -- there's probably little less than 40% would be my guess and the rest that make up the other 5% or so of the sales of the corporation.
I think relative to -- you asked a question on the Electronic Systems its performance in the first quarter and I'll say we were -- I'll speak for myself.
I was pleasantly surprised by the quarter results.
We kind of expected or I kind of expected that we might see actually some headwind in the first quarter primarily because of the lack of the PTDS order the persistent threat detection system that we had some very rapid sales that occurred in 2010.
We were actually able to offset most of that through a combination of things PAC-3 deliveries in the quarter.
Some higher -- a number of programs within MS2.
In fact all 3 lines of business within Electronic Systems grew in the quarter.
And within GT&amp;L the soft CLS contract grew almost $100 million compared to last year.
So that more than offset the lack of the PTDS contract.
As I look for the rest of the year for Electronic Systems I actually think we are going to see sequential growth quarter-over-quarter.
And I'll say first quarter was probably a little bit early to call but I think we could have some upside there on sales particularly if we receive another PTDS order which we're in conversations with the customer about as we speak.
And I also think quite frankly that EBIT is looking strong for the year relative to guidance.
I think margins should be at the 12% ROS level per quarter going forward.
And if there is some upside there I think it's potentially driven by Missiles &amp; Fire Control for the rest of this year.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Just the first question is I noticed the benefit you got from cash taxes in the quarter.
You mentioned some payments in the second quarter.
Can you just tell us what your cash tax expectation is for the year? And then just separately before I get cut off can you just talk about the prospects of the government shutdown? You talked about raising cash in the quarter I presume.
That's why we saw payables jump.
But can you just talk about how the customers are behaving how? Are you starting to see contract awards since the bill was signed into law? And really how is the customer behaving now and what should we see going forward? Cash taxes we actually did get a refund in the first quarter.
I think it was some $250 million worth or so.
And so our cash taxes for the total year are somewhat diminished because of that refund but you should think of them somewhere in the north of $800 million $850 million or so worth of cash taxes for the year.
And as far as customer behavior and what we're seeing for awards post-CR or post-government shutdown threat again I tried to tee up in the January call that we really felt just looking at the profile of our orders for the rest of the year back then that unless the CR was to extend I think we said beyond the end of April kind of time frame that we really didn't expect to see an impact to the guidance we're providing.
And I'll say that's exactly kind of happened in April 15 right in line with our expectations and so I haven't seen we haven't seen a change in the first quarter and thus far I don't believe expect to see change for the rest of the year.
I'll ask Bob to see if he's got a different perspective than I do.
Yes Sam I think that while it might have not been highly visible from the outside in what happens under the CR is our customers have to go through extraordinary measures of phasing and shifting and rebalancing almost on a daily basis and I'm not exaggerating.
So I think 1 of the great benefits of not having a CR imposed but having an appropriations bill is they're back to more ordinary focus on priorities and in fact doing the kind of contract actions that may reduce the number of undefinitized contract actions that allow them to plan to give them the confidence that they have funds in place to go ahead and put programs under contract.
So I would tell you we move from a period of extraordinary demands on the customers under the CR to more ordinary workflow in our customer communities.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland with Barclays Capital.
First off Bruce thanks for the extra level of disclosure in the release.
That was very helpful.
I want to piggyback briefly on Cai's question on Iraqi F-16s.
It's been pretty clear that the Iraqi government has been tight on funds and I think you hinted at that.
But oil production has been on the rise which helped this problem and so as you look at this order is it dependent solely on funding or is there also an element of political stability and does an extended U.S.
presence beyond the 2011 sort of play a role here? Or is it simply a funding matter that's just shifted out to the right? Well I think the dialogue that has occurred I'll tell you very much in the open is about roles and missions and the recognition that the Iraqis will need to stand up an indigenous force structure and part of that force structure is going to have to include tactical aircraft and the selection of the F-16 was already made.
In my last visit to Fort Worth that was oh about 2 weeks ago now I met with a delegation from Iraq to listen to their planning and their description of the circumstances that are driving the interest in the F-16.
What was conveyed to me and what I can convey to you now is unfettered support for both the need to have tactical aircraft the very strong desire to want to stand up an Iraqi government that is in full flourish with all the appointments and things that a government needs to maintain their security as well as all the domestic programs.
There was some discussion about some short-term rebalancing to meet some exigencies and as I mentioned we're seeing that in a number of places and frankly we're seeing that a little bit here at home.
The shifting of some priorities and the reallocation of resources.
So that didn't surprise us too much.
But what was conveyed was a long-term a recognition of the need for probably more than 18 tactical fighters and the need for that kind of capability in the Air Force and a desire to be strong security cooperation partners with the United States for a long period of time.
So I think these discussions have their word and we'll measure progress against the milestones that were discussed and have a better feel for this as our fiscal year closes.
And as we get into 2012 I think we'll have greater visibility here.
Our final question comes from Peter Arment with Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Bob I guess I'll take this as an opportunity to ask move over a big picture question for you.
I mean you've seen the fiscal '12 budget in detail now and expectations are we're going to have the out-years.
Or most likely you're going to see some pressures similar to what happened here in fiscal '11.
How are you thinking about getting more balance in the portfolio outside of defense? And I guess I'm thinking about your ramping up of your targeted adjacencies maybe to offset some of those pressures.
And I realize you still have a very proactive process on the portfolio shaping and returning 50% of free cash flow to shareholders.
But what's the desire to get more aggressive on the strategy? Yes I think that we are aggressive on our strategy.
And by aggressive I mean very highly energetically looking at this portfolio and making our assessments of what the outside world is likely to look at.
And I know we talked a huge amount about deficit reduction today.
But there is also the need to maintain a security posture in a world that is showing much more volatility and the U.S.
military is such a reliable partner.
I personally think the activities that unfolded in Egypt could have and would have been a lot more difficult had there not been long and well-established military-to-military ties where the militaries stood so tall and in such a distinguished way to maintain order in a civilian population.
And I attribute a lot of that to having great close personal and professional relations with the U.S.
military here.
We think our portfolio is very very well-positioned to the relevancy and the prioritization that customers will have recognizing the need for stability the need to access ceilings to promote trade the need to have to be able to assure that there is no domestic unrest.
So in that segment of our portfolio that we call the core we think strong execution is the best way to assure future growth.
That includes a recapitalization of the F-35 as Bruce has talked about.
It includes our ability to provide not only our nation but our friends and allies with very effective systems that can blunt the effect of offensive missiles that are proliferating very rapidly.
We have a good family of airlifters the C-5 domestically the C-130 internationally.
These aircraft are used in all manners of not just military engagements but humanitarian relief fire fighting missions all sorts of things.
So I think there's growth opportunity in that core business.
Additionally when we think of adjacencies I think Littoral Combat Ship has been 1 of those areas that we regarded as an adjacency over time.
I believe there's a commitment to building out a fleet of 55 Littoral Combat Ships domestically and I think there's considerable and expanding interest in the Littoral Combat Ship internationally.
And in that international interest I think there's interest in countries and regions of the world that have the financial capacity to support the program interests that they have.
And then on our horizon markets we think about cybersecurity and energy and health care information technology and we know those markets will mature at different paces.
And these are market segments and customers and technology applications with which we have considerable familiarity.
So the issue often becomes who you commercialize or whatever the right words are will you go into markets where you have less familiarity where you have less experience with consumer behavior where you have the different approaches to pricing and risk management? And at this juncture we don't see any reason to do that.
We don't have any plans to do that because we believe strongly in the missions in which we are involved the need for the capabilities that we and in some cases almost only we can provide the critical customers around the globe.
And we think that even under difficult discussions about deficit reduction that will occur over a very long period of time discussions that we absolutely intend to participate in and do our part there would still be a very compelling need to invest in security in recapitalization and in preparing for a very uncertain future that will determine the well-being of 310 million Americans.
And we're very dedicated to that focus.
So I don't think you should look to us for having any significant departure from the strategic focus that we have had on our Global Security business.
What you should expect from us is to stay focused on execution to continue to set high standards for cost reduction and quality.
And importantly we need to go out in a demanding marketplace and win new business and we intend to do that.
So for Bruce and Jerry and myself Sean thanks for presiding over the call today and for everybody who participated in the call we appreciate very much your interest and the ability to have this discussion with you.
And we look forward to giving you an update at the end of the second quarter.
Thanks very much.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day and welcome everyone to the Lockheed Martin Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Saeed and good morning everyone.
I'd like to welcome you to our second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Bob Stevens our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Statements made in today's call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities Law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see today's press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Jerry.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining in the call today.
In the second quarter we continued the positive momentum we established at the beginning of the year.
In the quarter we achieved sales growth of 2% grew earnings per share from continuing operations by 11% and generated $843 million in cash from operations.
This performance enabled us to increase our full year guidance for segment operating profit earnings per share and operating cash.
In the quarter we also repurchased 13 million shares of stock and made dividend payments of $258 million.
These actions continue to provide solid returns to shareholders while assuring we sustain appropriate investments in our business.
Since we were last together in April the range of global security and economic challenges we described as we assessed our strategic landscape has not diminished and the environment remains fluid particularly with regard to debt ceiling deliberations.
Domestically the highest priority focus remains on assuring that our nation does not default on our debt obligations that we develop a balanced plan that reduces deficits and liquidates our national debt and we establish a foundation for economic growth.
We are under no illusions about the difficulty of meeting these demands and continue to provide all encouragement to the administration and Congress as they undertake this work.
As there is yet no clear long-term course of action we will not attempt to predict what elements will emerge in the final approved plan.
What we can do and what we are doing with the resources we have is to redouble our focus on execution across the company as we drive for greater efficiency.
This quarter we implemented staffing reductions in 2 business areas: Space Systems and Aeronautics.
As a number of our programs transition from development to production we'll look to flatten organizations tighten the span of control and drive affordability.
While these staffing reductions are very difficult aspect of running our business they are essential in responding to the new realities and changing economic conditions we face.
Our customers are being asked to do more with less on a daily basis and the demands on them are enormous.
It's imperative that our cost structures be as low and efficient as possible to provide affordable solutions to meet their needs.
Looking at our largest customer key leadership changes were effective this quarter with the retirement of Secretary Gates and the swearing-in of his successor Secretary Panetta.
The department continues a roles and missions evaluation to determine what programs and levels of resources are required for our national security and the President's fiscal year 2012 budget request of $671 billion.
That's $553 billion in the base budget request and $118 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations.
It's currently under Congressional Committee review.
Looking at the international environment world economic conditions vary.
The eurozone is showing considerable stress with areas of high unemployment low economic growth and large national debt levels impacting countries such as Greece Spain Portugal Ireland and Italy.
Other market regions are more positive and demand for our products remains strong in a number of countries particularly in the Middle East and Pacific Rim.
Future sales growth in these regions is expected in fighter aircraft Missile Defense and cargo aircraft as we continue to work to expand the content of international revenues.
Despite domestic and international pressures our portfolio of products is well positioned to provide assistance in support of critical national security requirements.
Let me turn to key operational events that occurred this quarter and start with our largest program the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter where we achieved multiple noteworthy events and continued progress on both the development and production programs.
On the development program flight test activities continued ahead of plan for each aircraft variant.
Through June year-to-date 448 test flights were completed which is 18% ahead of the 378 flights planned.
Test point achievement remained 30% ahead of plan with 3 907 test points completed against the plan of 2 996.
At midyear we accomplished 51% of this year's planned flights and 58% of this year's planned test points.
Other development accomplishments included the successful delivery of 2 additional test aircraft to the Patuxent River Naval Air Station which completed deliveries of all carrier variant aircraft for the system design and development flight test program.
One carrier variant was subsequently deployed to Lakehurst New Jersey to conduct jet blast deflector ground testing while a second carrier variant initiated Catapult hook up testing at the Pax River test site.
Both of these events supported the expanded pace of Navy activities as we prepare for shipboard testing in 2013.
The software development plan consists of 3 blocks of software with 2 releases in each block.
The software that is flying today release 1A is performing well with respect to functionality and stability.
The next release 1B is in the integration lab test phase and is looking to move to the flight test program.
Release 2A is in initial system integration and release 2B has completed requirements definition and is in development.
Block 3 which provides enhanced war fighting capabilities is early in the requirements definition process.
This software program has approximately 1 month of scheduled pressure where we're focused on applying resources and mitigating impacts.
Overall we believe there are sufficient resources to accomplish this software program.
The first full mission simulator was delivered to the schoolhouse at Eglin Air Force Base.
This system will provide the next generation of F-35 pilots and maintainers with the most advanced training system in the world.
Progress on production also continued.
In the quarter we delivered the first 2 production F-35 aircraft completing Lot 1 deliveries.
Beyond the quarter momentum continues to build.
The first 2 production airplanes from the second production lot were delivered to Eglin Air Force Base.
These jets will be used for activities in concert with training pilots and maintainers at the new F-35 integrated training center.
The next 4 conventional takeoff and landing jets are all in the final stages of acceptance flights and transfer.
The next 6 jets are the Lot 2 STOVL aircraft and we're working with our customers to mitigate any potential impact associated with the late delivery of STOVL propulsion systems.
Of the 63 airplanes under contract 46 are now in factory flow 21 are in component assembly 16 are in final assembly and 9 are on the flight line going through initial flight qualifications.
And our fifth production lot proposal for 32 airplanes is being reviewed by the U.S.
government.
On the international front the Norwegian Pilot Unit unanimously supported funding for 4 F-35 training jets to begin fulfilling Norway's future air combat capability requirements.
The Netherlands exercised its order for one test aircraft under the Lot 4 contract and Australia and Italy are on track to participate in production Lot 6.
Because so many have raised questions I want to take a minute and talk about 2 areas of cost on the F-35 the cost of the first 3 production lots and the estimated $1 trillion cost of sustainment.
The first 3 production lots are up to 31 aircraft in total including 3 for international customers making the total U.S.
government buy 28 aircraft.
Each lot has a cost-type contract with an incentive fee provision and progressive cost-sharing responsibilities to assure that the industry team is focused on cost containment and owns a share of any cost growth.
This formula was mutually agreed to during the negotiations because it appropriately recognized the inherent risk in starting a production program with new aircraft particularly when the development and test program was running in parallel.
Earlier this month the Joint Program Office released an estimate indicating the cost of these 28 aircraft might be as much as $900 million more than target.
It's our understanding that this estimate assumes more conservative worst-case conditions and includes both estimated costs in excess of targets associated with our execution performance and estimated costs with revising the production aircraft in these early lots to include changes resulting from discovery in the test program a risk seen in all aircraft programs generally known as concurrency.
About 50% of the estimated cost growth is associated with execution performance and 50% with concurrency.
We are absolutely committed to working with our industry team and our customers to reduce this cost pressure as much as possible.
When we negotiated these lots we did agree to stretch as far as we possibly could and accept the challenging cost targets.
As we have executed the bill we've been unable to meet all of the challenges that were undertaken and we are sharing in any overrun.
We take our responsibility for cost reduction and affordability seriously and believe we have identified about $200 million in cost-avoidance opportunities on these first 3 lots that our customer will evaluate.
We also recognize that the concurrency cost challenges will be completely extinguished with the conclusion of the test program and will not be a recurring element in the baseline cost of the aircraft.
Even with the cost pressure that has been recognized the cost of each production lot and each successive jet is declining.
There can be no doubt that we're taking affordability challenges seriously not just in Aeronautics but across the entire company.
Over the last year or so we've affected facilities consolidations divestitures a voluntary executive separation program reducing senior ranks by 26% expense and overhead reductions salary freezes for senior executives organizational changes to tighten our span of control and reductions in our work force.
We'll continue this focus.
The cost of the F-35 will continue to come down and we will deliver a high-performance effective and affordable solution.
Relating to sustainment in an effort to understand the long-term ownership cost of the F-35 a U.S.
government model was developed that attempted to estimate the cost of 2 443 aircraft in 107 squadrons at more than 50 sites worldwide through the year 2065.
This 50-year model includes many assumptions about phasing flight hours training sites personnel wage rates support equipment spares aircraft configuration modifications fuel costs risk factors inflation rates and many other elements of cost.
The result was an estimate of $1 trillion.
While much more work needs to be done in examining the details of this estimate over such a long half-century horizon there are 3 early observations.
First there is the issue of comparability or context.
To my knowledge the F-35 is the first and only program to undertake such an extensive estimate spanning broad ranges of programmatic considerations over more than 5 decades.
It's my sense that if other capabilities were to be estimated with the same assumptions over the same time horizon the results would be similar if not greater.
For example if the fleet of legacy fighters that the F-35 will replace were to be similarly estimated the cost of their sustainment would likely exceed that of the F-35 without achieving any of the significant aircraft admission systems benefits afforded with this fifth generation capability.
It's important to remember that part of the value of the F-35 lies in its ability to enhance and leverage the performance of other systems adding significantly to strategic flexibility and tactical responsiveness.
The second area is estimability.
50 years is a long time and the estimate is in then year dollars.
Assumptions about rates and factors that compound over decades have a profound effect on the resulting estimate.
The third area is a very important one acceptability.
There is no one in our customer community and no one on the industry team who accepts this outcome no one.
I certainly will not.
I have every confidence that we and our customers working together will substantially reduce the cost of sustainment to well below this estimate.
Finally on the F-35 with the critical importance of this program to our customers and our corporation I asked Orlando Carvalho a talented and proven executive who formerly served as President of our Mission Systems &amp; Sensors business to assist the current F-35 executive team by bringing his extensive background to strengthen our focus on remaining activities on the system design and develop a program.
Orlando's expertise in managing large complex production programs as they transition from development will be invaluable.
Turning to the C-5M program our team completed modernization and delivery of the second production Super Galaxy this quarter.
This modernization program is demonstrating a new level of capability in strategic airlift and the improvements in performance and efficiency validate the value of modernizing these proven and viable aircraft in an affordable way.
To date we've delivered 5 C-5M aircraft as we continue to work on our multiyear contracts to modernize 52 air lifters.
The modernization activities being implemented on the C-5 program have been calculated by the Air Force to dramatically reduce operations and sustainment costs and yield a net savings of almost $9 billion when completed.
Moving to Electronic Systems.
We had key new business awards and operational achievements this quarter.
In the expanding area of Ballistic Missile Defense we received a contract from the United States Army for hardware and services on the Patriot missile program.
We continue to see strong interest in Patriot around the globe.
In a test of our Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense system we tracked and engaged an intermediate-range ballistic missile using data from our remote radar site.
This successful test off the Coast of Hawaii marked the first engagement of the system against an intermediate-range ballistic missile as well as the first use of a launch on remote capability.
This challenging test and success to further improve the defense capabilities of our nation against the growing proliferation of ballistic missile threats.
Finally in Electronics.
We received a follow-on contract from the United States Army to produce 29 additional persistent threat detection systems or PTDS to support coalition forces in Afghanistan.
This contract follows our completion of 28 systems that were delivered to the Army in 2010.
PTDS is an affordable highly effective combat-proven Aero staff-based surveillance reconnaissance and communication system in support of force protection and anti-IED missions.
The system currently provides around-the-clock coverage and actionable intelligence that helps to protect our troops from a range of threats.
This latest follow-on award when fully exercised will bring the inception to date PTDS total program awards value to over $1 billion.
Since this Aero staff can accommodate a variety of sensor packages we're exploring broader market applications for a proven low-cost capability.
Moving to Information Systems &amp; Global Solutions.
For the 17th consecutive year Lockheed Martin was ranked #1 in the information technology provision to the federal government.
This quarter we established a teaming arrangement with Carnegie Melon University to pursue innovative solutions in the demanding world of cybersecurity.
To facilitate collaboration we opened a new cyberlab near the campus to enable joint research into concepts and technologies that will likely shape the future of cyber operations and generate solutions to the growing challenge for government agencies to protect their networks and infrastructure against adversaries.
These efforts will be used to support the recently released cybersecurity initiatives outlined by the Pentagon to help protect critical information from loss to adversaries.
Closer to home our own corporation continues to be a target for attempted cyber intrusion on a daily basis.
This past quarter we've been a target of a sophisticated and highly publicized cyber intrusion attempt.
Our safeguards performed as designed and no data was lost.
But make no mistake the cyber threat is real pervasive and only growing in frequency and sophistication requiring new and innovative solutions to stay ahead of threats.
In Space Systems we were very gratified to see the successful launch and geosynchronous orbit insertion of the first space-based infrared system spacecraft followed by the commencement of first imagery transmission.
SBIRS GEO-1 is the most technologically advanced military infrared satellite ever developed.
It will vastly improve missile warning capabilities while simultaneously improving missile defense intelligence and battle space awareness for our nation and allies for years to come.
Taken as a portfolio these operational accomplishments across our business highlight our corporate-wide focus on program execution that we regard as a critical component of our strategy.
They reflect the quality and depth of our leadership and the commitment of our team to meet commitments while focusing on affordability and improving quality.
Our portfolio of products remains exceptionally well positioned to provide solutions and products to satisfy the critical needs of domestic and international customers in the growing global security environment.
With all the pressures and challenges we all see on a daily basis I'm optimistic about our future.
Even with significant economic challenges the global security environment remains complex and volatile and advanced solutions will be needed.
We have exceptional talent expertise and the dedication of our workforce in helping solve the difficult problems faced by our customers.
Their efforts will continue to be the foundation in providing customer and shareholder value.
I was particularly pleased in their evaluation of industry that Aviation Week &amp; Space Technology recognized Lockheed Martin as the top performing company in our category for an unprecedented 4th consecutive year.
This award belongs to our 126 000 employees and is a true testament to their focus on continuous improvement every day.
I'll turn the call over to Bruce now to provide additional detail on the second quarter financial results and our outlook on 2011 and then we'll turn to your questions.
Bruce? Thanks Bob.
Good morning everyone.
As I highlight our key financial accomplishments I would encourage you to follow along with the web charts that we've included today.
Let's begin with Chart 3 and an overview of our first quarter.
We grew sales for the company by 2% which was in line with our expectations.
Our earnings per share from continuing operations grew by 11% compared to last year driven by higher sales volume and segment margins and a net benefit of a tax matter that we discussed last quarter more than offsetting almost $100 million in severance charges from announced reductions in both our Aeronautics and Space businesses.
The impact of the severance charges was an $0.18 reduction to our quarterly EPS.
We generated almost $850 million in cash from operations a higher level than we had expected when we discussed our outlook last quarter.
And we repurchased 13 million shares for $1 billion which we will discuss in greater detail in later charts.
So overall we had a strong second quarter and solid results for the first half of 2011.
Turning to Chart 4.
We'll look at our sales by the 4 business areas.
As in the first quarter 2 of the 4 business areas grew this quarter led by Aeronautics with 9% growth and Electronic Systems with 6% growth.
Aeronautics growth was driven primarily by the F-35 and air mobility programs including the C-130 and C-5 programs while Electronic Systems growth was driven primarily by Missiles &amp; Fire Control.
Both IS&amp;GS and Space had lower sales in the quarter with IS&amp;GS again reflecting the absence of the U.S.
Census activity that finished last year.
Space Systems was lower due to reduced activity on the Orion crew exploration vehicle and lower sales for the External Tank program resulting from the end of shuttle operations.
Moving to Chart 5 and our earnings per share in the quarter.
Our earnings from continuing operations grew 11% over last year's level.
And if you adjust EPS in both periods to add back the negative effect of the FAS/CAS impact our EPS grew by more than 20% as shown on the chart.
As I said earlier this EPS growth was driven by a higher sales volume a 40 basis point improvement in segment operating margin and the net benefit of tax matters versus the severance charges.
If you'll now turn to Chart 6.
We'll discuss our share repurchase activity in more detail.
During the quarter we repurchased 13 million shares significantly higher than during the first quarter when the threat of a government shutdown lowered our repurchase activity.
As a result of our repurchases we reduced our outstanding share count by more than 3% in the second quarter.
Continuing with our share repurchases on Chart 7 you can see that the second quarter of this year was higher than last year and that our year-to-date repurchases of 16.5 million shares in 2011 is higher than at this same point last year.
Chart 8 shows our year-to-date cash from operations.
So far this year we've generated over $2.5 billion in cash from operations and almost $2.3 billion in free cash flow.
On the right side of the chart we show the amount of free cash flow returned to our shareholders in the first half of the year.
With a $1.3 billion of share repurchases along with a $0.5 billion in dividends we've returned about 80% of our free cash flow thus far.
If you'll turn to Chart 9.
We'll discuss provisions to our sales outlook this quarter and I should say that all the outlook changes we'll provide assume a resolution of the debt ceiling discussion without an impact to the DoD spend level in 2011.
For the overall company we tied the sales range while leaving the midpoint of the range unchanged.
Within the business areas we increased Electronic Systems reflecting its strong performance thus far while we lowered the ranges for both Space Systems and IS&amp;GS given some of the pressures we've seen this year.
For Aeronautics we simply tightened the range to reflect increased revenue visibility for the remainder of the year.
On Chart 10 we showed the revision to our segment operating profit outlook.
Overall we increased the low end of the range by $100 million and increased the upper end of the range by $50 million resulting in a $75 million increase at the midpoint.
You can see that we substantially increased both the low end and high end of Electronic Systems range and maintained a high end for both Space Systems and IS&amp;GS while increasing the low end for both businesses.
And again for Aeronautics we narrowed the range while maintaining the high end of our guidance.
Moving to Chart 11.
We show our earnings per share from continuing operations guidance changes in the quarter.
As a reminder we increased our EPS guidance for the year during the first quarter call to reflect the expected resolution of prior year tax matters that actually occurred in the second quarter.
This quarter we see higher segment operating profit for the year lower corporate expenses a lower tax rate and share count offsetting the severance charge in the quarter.
As a result we increased our EPS outlook by $0.40 at the lower end of the range and $0.30 at the upper end reflecting our increased confidence in the year.
On Chart 12 you can see that we also increased our cash from operations for the year by $100 million to a new outlook of greater than or equal to $4.2 billion.
This increase in cash reflects the higher operating profit mentioned previously.
Finally and just to summarize on Chart 13 we've had a strong start for the first half of 2011 and expect that performance to continue for the rest of the year.
We believe that the results we're seeing this year reflect the actions taken over the past year or so to remain competitive and efficient and we continue to return value to our shareholders even during challenging times.
And I think due to the expanded prepared remarks today we'll continue the call beyond the planned hour duration to try to accommodate any open callers in the queue.
And with that Saeed we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jason Gursky from Citi.
Just a quick question about some of the language in your release itself with regard to the severance actions particularly in Aeronautics.
You suggested that part of it was to reduce -- due to reduced expectations around spending levels particularly globally.
I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit more about what you see in some of the out years with regard to demand for Aeronautics and whether this is signaling some sort of change that you see on programs outside the F-35.
Jason this is Bob Stevens.
We envision that the strength of our portfolio in Aeronautics will have a good reception in the out years both domestically and internationally.
You mentioned the F-35 and I think that we expect to see based upon our continued ability to execute good levels of demand domestically and internationally on the F-35.
On the F-16 program we've already I think commented with real transparency and clarity not only to you but to our international customers that we're getting to the end of that F-16 line.
We have worked to rephase the balance of our production deliveries on the F-16 that allows us to bridge program performance to the end of 2013.
And we have at the same time advised that if we don't receive firm commitments for additional F-16s on or about the end of this year then the line will certainly begin to shutdown if not have a significant gap.
And I think that's caused a number of our global customers to evaluate their inventory needs.
As we look at the F-16 specifically relative to future opportunities both the Omanis and the Iraqis have expressed interest in purchasing additional F-16s.
And we were advised as you were earlier this month that the United States government will likely make an up-down decision on whether or not our government will release new F-16s to Taiwan.
So there are certainly elements of interest here being expressed in the prospect for future F-16s and we'll keep you posted.
We expect the C-130 program to do well domestically and internationally.
It's a strong and proven performer and I think the strength of that demonstrated performance matters a lot in an environment where uncertainty is increasing.
And we were certain that we'll see growth on the C-5 program.
So our initiative to engage in a reduction in force is part of a broader initiative to drive levels of affordability in this company.
And it's not uniquely associated with our expectations in Aeronautics on international markets.
And our next question comes from Rich Safran from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Bob I wanted to if I could follow up on your F-16 comments for a second.
There's been some chatter about an F-16 upgrade program for the U.S.
due to F-35 delays and I want to know if you could give some comment on that program? I'd be interested to know if you think an F-16 upgrade program for the U.S.
would be real? If you think there'd actually be money for it and if it might come at the expense for example the F-35 program.
It's just a little I think early to make a forceful determination about that.
I know that there are always ongoing evaluations in the Pentagon about the need desire and practicability of service life extension programs on airframes and really other platforms.
And I do believe that's occurring in an evaluation of the F-16.
But I don't think any final decisions have been undertaken.
And I think as we examine the environment in which activities are unfolding in the Pentagon there is currently an ongoing roles and missions evaluation.
There is an ongoing strategic assessment.
As you know there are ongoing budget deliberations and I think the confluence of those examinations will likely need to mature a little bit before we'll all get greater clarity on what an F-16 service flight extension program may be looking at.
You added I think a thought about the F-35 program.
We're certainly applying all our energies to assure that we deliver the best F-35 possible in the most affordable way.
The F-35s that are flying are performing well.
The feedback that we're getting is very good.
That which we're discovering and learning in the test program it changes or additional action is needed.
We're taking the appropriate action.
So generally I think there's a positive view of the F-35 relative to its performance in the test program and we're focusing with all our energy along with our partners and suppliers to make sure the costs can be contained and that we'll have an affordable program here.
And I think overall the F-35 will prove to be a very good performing airplane.
And our next question comes from Doug Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> On the F-35 could you talk a little bit about LRIP 4 and LRIP 5? And in particular you had mentioned costs have been coming down per unit as you've gone through each of the blocks.
My understanding is LRIP 5 is a little bit more expensive than LRIP 4 and then on top of that we've had this seminar on services committee most in their amendment to put that under a firm fixed price contract.
Can you talk about how you're looking at LRIP 4 and LRIP 5 and also how progress is going on LRIP 4? Sure.
Well the way we're looking at LRIP 4 is head down focused on execution building the momentum off Lots 2 and 3 and driving the costs and assuring the quality and cycling the production line which I honestly believe Doug is everything everybody wants us to do.
So it's a very head down day-to-day focus on getting the supply chain to cycle in an appropriate way that feeds the production line and then driving efficiencies through that production line and assuring quality of the products that are done.
I think as you know in the early production lots there is a development program running in parallel.
There are discoveries that are occurring in that development program that get fed into the line.
So part of the challenge in the early lots is doing that incorporating those changes with efficiency and we're working hard to do that well.
Lot 5 has not yet been negotiated.
We submitted our proposal which is a fixed-price incentive-type contract proposal basis in April.
The government is undertaking a new should-cost approach.
We haven't had any feedback from the should-cost evaluation.
We think that's likely to be forthcoming perhaps next month.
And with that we believe we'll be able to engage in a very good dialogue as we attempt to negotiate a Lot 5 position that is both affordable and realistic and reasonable.
But we don't want to leave it there.
We intend to work with our customers to drive the incremental costs of Lots 6 and 7 and beyond out of this airplane and have confidence that over the long run if we do our jobs effectively and well and if the preconditions that are necessary in the architecture of the program exist that are amenable to high-quality and affordable produceability of the jets we'll have a very competitive very high performing airplane here in the F-35.
Relative to the Senate Armed Services Committee language and commentary on the program I'm quite confident the Senate and I'll extend this to the whole entirety of the U.S.
Congress they want to see affordable systems.
They want to see cost control.
And in a program like the F-35 they want to see and need to see that over time with the increase in production volume that the costs will come down such that we will have an affordable and competitive airplane.
I will tell you that everyone we talk with in the Department of Defense wants exactly the same thing and I hope and trust you know that we and our industry partners want the same thing.
That's how you have a successful program that meets the expectations that we not only have for ourselves but that our customers have for us because we take very seriously the responsibility we have here to provide the kind of capabilities that the U.S.
military needs and our friends and allies demand in a world where there's increasing instability in the global security environment.
So we're very focused in this regard and we will continue to drive with all our energy to get a high-performing low-cost very affordable F-35.
Our next question comes from Joe Campbell from Barclays Capital.
The IS&amp;GS backlog of $8.6 billion one of the lowest we've seen since this segment was created down it looks like a little over $1 billion since year end.
And less than 1x the forecast sales which you took $100 million to $200 million out of.
And I wondered if you could just share with us some of the dynamics of what's happening here.
I wasn't sure whether this order intake was coming in a segment that was more sensitive to the CR.
Maybe some of the divestitures affected the numbers in ways that made them look different than I was thinking.
And last quarter you noted that the intel was trending down.
So I wondered whether this was continuing? And just in general a little more color on this.
Joe this is Bruce.
I'll take that one on.
You threw a lot of things out there so let me try to address maybe several of them sequentially here.
I think IS&amp;GS of all 4 of our business areas is probably the one that is most sensitive to the CRs because it is sort of a hand-to-mouth kind of business relative to some of our other business areas in terms of orders converting to sales.
So I think there was some of that in the early first quarter associated with the CR IS&amp;GS typically always has a large fourth quarter in terms of orders being awarded in that particular quarter as the first quarter obviously of the government fiscal year.
We expect to see that same trend happen this year.
So you'll see a bit of a spike at least we're expecting to see a bit of a spike in the fourth quarter for our orders.
You talked about security and there's several phenomenon going on kind of concurrently within IS&amp;GS and part of it is within our Intelligence business there.
We went through several years of some fairly large a big-ticket implementations of IT systems if you will and we're now seeing a number of much smaller sort of modern sustainment activities as opposed to large developmental activities there.
And frankly a lot of the developmental activities that the agencies need to get done have been done to this point.
So I think that's some of what's happening on in Intelligence.
Elsewhere in just the government IT business in general we continue to see downward pressure associated with the fiscal environment that the government is facing.
And that is manifesting itself in terms of downward spend on the IT budgets of the federal agencies that we deal with.
We've seen that fairly much across the board in terms of agencies that we've dealt with for a long time that are simply reducing the amount of IT budget for activities that we've been supporting for a number of years.
So I think that's sort of some of the pressures we've talked about within IS&amp;GS.
That's why again we took the sales down in the guidance that we did.
Overall for the corporation I don't think the outlook or the results that happened in the second quarter surprised me.
I tried to keep it up in the first quarter that we would see a sequential reduction between first and second.
And again I expect to see a sequential reduction between second and third.
Third is almost always historically our lowest level for orders in the corporation.
And I still expect that at the end of the year we'll get back somewhere close to where we start the year 2011 somewhere in the $78 billion range.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Bob and Bruce you may want to forgive me a little bit for the historical context but the last time you went through one of these things Bob I think was CFO and you were very successful in implementing a lot of restructuring charges and changes.
And I'm sort of trying to understand where you think the right size of Lockheed Martin will be as you look out as the changing environment.
And then second related to that from an accounting point of view why are you taking some of the charges now? I thought you'd normally be able to capitalize some of those and recoup them over either some contracts or another period of time.
I'll take the first part Howard and I'll have Bruce cover the second part on the accounting treatment.
When you think about the long-term right size for Lockheed Martin that's going to be dependent and a function of a number of ongoing deliberations not just domestically but around the globe.
Domestically we're going to have to work our way through the increase of the debt ceiling discussions and deliberations.
But I look at that as really the first and honestly initial part of a discussion that must include longer-term planning for deficit reduction and the long-term liquidation of $14.3 trillion in national debt followed by a third companion initiative that looks to establish a better foundation for economic growth and expansion in the United States.
This is a big set of demands.
So it's not clear to me what the content of that planning will be at this point.
So as to preclude some more definitive judgment about exactly what size we should have and structure and content would be best aligned.
But I can tell you we surely see the vector.
We know where the general direction is going and we're not going to hesitate to move out crisply and effectively in reducing our cost structure while improving our spans of control and our ability to navigate in an environment where the velocity of events is greater and the volatility of those events is broadening we know we have to be more responsive and more agile and we're working to do that.
So all the actions that we have outlined to take really constitute a portfolio of initiatives that are going to put us in the right place at the right time.
The future conclusions that are reached in the planning process will tell us whether we need to accelerate in some areas or whether we're about where we need to be in some areas.
But I hope you have a feel for the general direction and the commitment that we have to be in the right place at the right time to assure the overall and long-term vitality of this company.
And I'll ask Bruce to comment on the accounting.
Yes Howard.
If you just think of the charges that we took there's a $97 million split between Aeronautics and Space Systems Company GAAP really requires us because of the size of the charge to establish a provision for the severance charges themselves.
And our reported GAAP earnings per share on the government accounting side and I think your question was actually more related to the government accounting or the PCA's side.
We do expect to recover most of these charges in our contracts going for it.
If you just think of the nature of the contracts in each of those 2 business areas Space Systems companies mostly cost plus environment and again we would expect to recover it in that environment.
On the Aeronautics business it has a greater proportion of its overall sales that are fixed priced and fixed price incentive that even in the Aeronautics side we still expect to recover the vast majority of those charges in the -- going forward with our customer.
I mean simplistically I'll just try to make this as simple as possible.
If you think of the cost of the severance the lower cost that will result from these head count reductions sort of offsets the severance charges at about 6 months' time frame.
So it doesn't take long for sort of that cost to get mitigated and such that it doesn't have an impact on the contracts going forward.
Hopefully that makes sense to you Howard.
Our next question comes from George Shapiro from Access 342.
Bruce I had a question on the Aeronautics margin.
You gave a lot of information this time around.
I have 2 questions on it.
One it doesn't seem like you would have changed the margin on the F-35 R&amp;D program or the production program.
I just wanted to know whether that was an accurate statement? And then second if you have any updates on the $600-million-plus of incentive fees as to whatever is going to happen to those? Yes.
Let me try to address those George.
You're correct on the F-35.
We did nothing on either the development program or the production program in the quarter.
So you're insight is six-spot on there.
The one thing that I'll point out that maybe was embedded in your question is that in the second quarter we had a pretty good adjustment positively on the C-130 program that really reflects that we delivered the last multiyear aircraft on our C-130 multiyear program in the second quarter.
So if you think of all the risk retirements that we sort of plan out towards the end of the program that is now sort of consummated itself at the end of the quarter.
So we took quite a larger pickup in the second quarter simply because of that event.
That likely will not be repeated going forward on the C-130 for the rest of this year.
The roughly $600 million that you're talking about it's actually less than that because there were some events in the late 2010 time frame that reduced that value some $35 million or so.
So think of it as around the $575 million $580 million number.
The most near-term events that we're watching there and that's really all we can talk about because we really haven't scheduled out anything beyond 2011 quite frankly.
But there are 5 near-term events that sort of all happened in the fourth quarter of this year worth collectively a little over $50 million or kind of equally split.
Think of that $50 million being equally split over those 5 items and we're watching those closely.
We think we are performing well on the vast majority of them.
A couple of them are kind of close.
We're working to sort of address those in an efficient manner as we could possibly do.
So I don't think we'll have much more to report to you even in the third quarter call George but definitely the fourth quarter call we'll have a good idea.
Actually we should have a great idea because I should be completed by that point in time and I can tell you then what actually happened.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Bob I was hoping you could comment a bit on the F-22 with the grounding situation there.
I would imagine there's not much in terms of materiality impact because of the percentage completion accounting.
But if you could comment on how you're working with the customers all the situation and the feedback you're getting and kind of lessons on how you're feeding that into other aspects.
And also Bruce could you comment on the outlook for 2012 on the F-16? Is it still looking to be 40 16s or you are kind of level loading given the uncertainty on the long-term outlook there? Yes Myles I'll start on the onboard oxygen generating system issue.
Sometimes it's referred to as OBOGS because everything here has an acronym.
The environment here is that some pilots but not all pilots have experienced hypoxia-like symptoms.
And it's sort of important to go through a little detail of that because hypoxia in the cockpit environment has a very specific definition.
And what's being experienced is hypoxia-like but has not been established at this time as a failure of that onboard oxygen generating system.
So at this juncture there really hasn't been an obvious or apparent cause of what are intermittent symptoms that some pilots are experiencing.
So the Air Force quite rightly has stood the airplanes down and commenced an incredibly thorough and detailed review to see if we can get to the root cause together of what this cause might be.
As of our conversation today we collectively have been unable to replicate the conditions.
But again I think the Air Force quite prudently has taken an F-22 and added some very sophisticated instrumentation and is flying that instrumented airplane to see if those conditions exist and if the conditions can be observed then if we can trace backwards together so as to the root cause.
So the U.S.
government has believed the cause is really unclear at this time.
I should tell you this phenomenon has occurred on other jets from time to time.
So I have every confidence the Air Force has all the expertise to create the conditions where this phenomenon can be appropriately examined.
It's not a financial issue to us at all and we are doing all we know how to do to support our customer.
So that they can get to the bottom of what this condition is and how we can fix this condition and how they can fly these jets with confidence.
And I think they and we have confidence that we will get to the bottom of it.
It's just one of those frustrating circumstances now where we haven't been able to determine root cause as of this time.
But we'll continue to work with the Air Force on that initiative.
Myles this is Bruce.
You asked about the F-16 quantities as we look out to 2012 time frame.
We are still thinking in numbers of about 40 aircraft or so for 2012.
One of the reasons for that frankly is because a good portion of those aircraft are actually Turkish aircraft that are being delivered off of an assembly line in Turkey as opposed to the assembly line at Fort Worth.
So those aircraft are going to happen in accordance with the Turkish needs unfettered.
The other thing that may be behind your question though is and Bob kind of said in his remarks but I'll just echo a little bit there.
We have adjusted some of our future deliveries in the 2013 time frame.
I think in some earlier discussions that I've had with several of you we were looking at sort of a mid-year or actually maybe even closer to the early part of the year end of the F-16 line we have renegotiated with a couple of our international customers to extend that now to the end of the 2013 time frame.
But specifically answering your question next year's deliveries we still expect to be around the 40 number.
Our next question comes from Heidi Wood from Morgan Stanley.
Bob I have 2 questions for you.
One is as we look ahead into this budget debate if this budget debate results and cuts to the carrier force levels there is a potential that added savings of needing fewer air carrier air wings.
So can you help us -- how should we think about the impact of fewer F-35 fees on the price of the F-35? Does this have a potential domino effect on the affordability for international customers? Or would a narrowing build be far off a  way that it wouldn't affect the next few years? Well Heidi the direct answer to that question is it all depends.
And it will largely depend on what the total buy ultimately looks like.
And in our view how we accelerate through the production lots and how we might phase any changes in inventory whether that's variant by variant the F-35 C which is the Navy variant or any of the other variants.
It is simply in our judgment too early to determine what the budget deliberations will ultimately look like.
I think we hold a pretty general model in our minds of knowing that the overall discretionary spending accounts whether that's for defense or non-defense purposes are going to come down as a part of a broad-based deficit and debt reduction program that includes actions on entitlement programs like Medicare Medicaid and Social Security the discretionary accounts and some discussions about revenue.
And we're watching that unfold on a daily basis and I won't comment on that.
We also know that quite apart from the budget deliberations there are strategic evaluations occurring about the quality and character of the global security environment.
I think every observation that has been shared with us about that environment suggests that it is more complex.
It is very demanding.
It is highly volatile and uncertain.
And as a result we have to try to be as prepared as we possibly can be for lots of eventualities in the future.
Some of the observations from those strategic assessments and as I mentioned earlier the yet-to-be-concluded roles and missions evaluation is that carriers are going to be an important element in the 21st century when you think about spheres of influence for our nation relative to assuring trade access to routes security issues in a shared and cooperative way.
We have talked a lot about Afghanistan and Iraq and they are important because we have forces deployed there.
But we also think in terms of instability in the Korean Peninsula lots of discussion about resource claims in the South China Sea freedom of navigation there Iran the Middle East and other parts of the world that suggest to us that there will be a demand for a blue water navy and there will be a demand for carriers.
I cannot comment on exactly how many carriers but I think the demands on the security side will be sustained.
And it will be our collective jobs to determine at the intersection of the strategy and the budget availability what the right mix of force structure is.
So it's just very hard to handicap that.
We know and believe and think history strongly supports that when you plan to build 200 Joint Strike Fighters a year and you facilitize to do that if you build fewer than that the cost of those jets will be more because we simply don't have degrees of freedom left in how we would amortize the cost that we have.
We think that the tactical aircraft fleet needs to be recapitalized over the long term.
We think that the proliferation of technologies around the globe strongly support the need for fifth generation capabilities that are already designed and embedded in the F-35 through a process that's now unfolded over 15 years of investment by this nation in this capability that the smartest and best things we can do with our industry team is put our head down and focus on execution and continue to drive this program forward in cooperation with our customers.
And then we and they together will look at the changing strategic landscape and budget landscape and try to make the right decisions at the margin.
Terrific.
And can I ask a second question? Yes you may.
You referred to it actually in your answer.
You remarked about global security strategy and I wonder if you would update us on your thinking and the top initiatives that you're embarking on to really flush out that strategy more broadly? And perhaps in your answer Bob to help us understand how you're defining global security.
Do you mean via TACAIR cargo and Missile Defense? Or are you looking into growth and new initiatives and if so can you give us color on those? Yes I'm going to try to be brief because we could talk for 2 hours Heidi without exaggeration and I've been known to do that but I promise I won't.
The definition of global security is getting broader from our point of view.
And you mentioned some immediate focus areas that tend to be in the military application of security interests and we have really very high quality core program capabilities here in those areas.
But we've had a lot of discussion recently about cybersecurity.
We'll have growing discussion about energy security and that is not a U.S.
phenomenon.
It's a global phenomenon.
We will talk more about how governments can provide continuing effective services for citizens in a more efficient way because their stress on government is at every level of government and that's not unique to the United States either.
We think we can play a very strong role in information technology applications in a variety of domains in the cybersecurity domain in the energy security domain as well as in the humanitarian relief aspects of our program portfolio the Intelligence component and the military component.
So my sense is that the demands around the globe are only growing.
And when we do a region-by-region country-by-country assessment the volatility of events and the demands there are really considerably increasing.
And those demands are actually exacerbated by the state of world economic conditions that I think generally if you took them in total are showing more signs of stress so that there'll be fewer economic resources available to meet the growing set of security demands.
We want to play a role there.
We think we've been effective at doing that historically.
We intend to make the adaptations in our company that are necessary to assure that we can meet our customers at that intersection of fulfilling their security responsibilities in an affordable and effective way.
And Heidi let me say this to be brief in my comments.
We'll make sure as we move forward together we comment more clearly on our views of global security and the responses that we're taking to that changing global landscape.
And our next question comes from Joe Nadol from JPMorgan.
I have a couple of what might be more mundane questions but just on the Electronics segment where you raised revenue guidance I was wondering what the driver was? Was it the PTDS follow on or was there something else there? And then I was wondering if you could just be more specific or maybe I missed this the corporate staffing reductions that you just announced I think last week are those embedded in this guidance or not? And if not what can we -- how can we think about it? Joe I'll try to take both of those.
On the Electronic Systems' revenue guidance.
The bigger driver there as opposed to PTDS is more Missiles &amp; Fire Control volume up but also just the entirety of MS2.
The PTDS order that Bob talked about the additional 29 units will have some sales in 2011 but it's not what's driving the increase actually.
Most of those sales because of the time it takes to develop those systems will actually occur in 2012.
So the bigger driver again is primarily Missiles &amp; Fire Control and MS2.
On the corporate voluntary reduction as we sit here today Joe I don't think that the numbers we're expecting to see from the number of people who will take the voluntary lay off are going to amount to a large enough number that'll move the needle very much at all this year at least that's our expectations as we sit here today.
And our next question comes from Robert Spingarn from Credit Suisse.
You've done a very nice job of holding and actually raising your operating profit forecast this year despite retaining the midpoint of the sales forecast.
But notwithstanding looks like the margins will decline at least a bit in the second half.
Can you talk about the trends by segment as we go from H1 to H2? What was one time in the second quarter which of course is quite strong and which of these 2 halves are better indication for margins next year? I'll try that one also.
I'll just maybe just go around the horn for all 4 business areas and talk in margins there.
I think if we start maybe with Electronic Systems to begin with I think margins in Electronic Systems are probably going to follow a somewhat similar pattern to what we saw in 2010 which also experienced a higher first half of the year than the second half.
Currently I'm looking -- I still think we're going to be in the 12% range next year and my guess would be going forward that that's a good assumption for 2012 as well.
IS&amp;GS margins in the first half actually we think are probably a little lower than what we're going to see in the second half of the year.
We think as we sit here today that the margins for IS&amp;GS are probably going to end up being slightly above 9%.
And same comment for IS&amp;GS as I just made for Electronic Systems.
I think IS&amp;GS is kind of a 9% low 9% business in 2012 as well.
Aeronautics business area we would expect the margins to be a little lower in the second half of the year.
Again I've tried to tee up with George's question the notion that we did have a fairly good-sized pickup on the C-130 program as a result of delivering the final multi-year aircraft in the second quarter.
That won't be replicated in the second half so I would expect those margins to be slightly lower.
And I would expect the Aeronautics differing than the Electronic Systems or IS&amp;GS to be lower in 2012 than it is in 2011 primarily as I've tried to tip numerous times because of the continued growth of the F-35 program offset by in particular lower sales on the F-22 program in 2012.
And then finally in Space.
Space had a very high quarter 13% quarter.
That's not the run rate that we will see in Space.
That was mostly due to the timing phasing some of our equity earnings primarily in our United Launch Alliance having to do with the phasing of some of the launched vehicles themselves.
That's not a change in our outlook for the year for Space but it did happen earlier than we were expecting it to and that's what caused the spike in the second quarter.
Because of that spike I would expect the second half to be lower than that.
And as far as the run rate for Space I think it might be slightly lower than this year but still in the 11% 11-plus percent level is what I would expect to see in 2012.
Our next question comes from Rob Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC</strong> Bob a question on cash deployment.
You talked in the past about a balanced cash deployment strategy.
But clearly at the moment you're spending a large amount on the buyback.
Do you think there will be a benefit or not from maybe proportionately putting more into the dividend versus the buyback? Well we like the cash deployment philosophy that we've had Rob.
Let me say it that way.
We've had a commitment now for many years of assuring that we return at least 50% of our free cash flow to investors.
And I think history is probably not only instructive but informative about how we look at the world and what we are likely to do going forward.
We wanted to have what we regarded as a good and competitive dividend position.
I like what we have done there.
And I think in September we'll give the value of dividends full consideration and we'll make a decision there.
And we've been opportunistic with our share repurchases.
And I'm quite confident we'll continue that kind of approach to a share repurchase program.
The good news I think is that and I'm very proud of our leadership team and the professionalism demonstrated throughout the company in focusing on cash generation.
They have been able to do that very effectively and very well through now a variety of quite different market conditions.
They've been focused on cash generation.
So we're able to produce that level of operating cash and then equivalently the leadership team here has been very prudent in how we invest in the business assuring we're investing in the right things at adequate levels of investment but not a $0.01 more.
And as a result of that we've been able to I think engage in the kind of value-generation activities that you and others might well regard.
And dividends and share repurchases play a very big role in that.
They have historically and I think they will as we look forward together.
Our next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr from Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> Could you give us an update on pension in terms of your performance year-to-date kind of what you now see contributing this year and next year? What's happening with CAS Harmonization and kind of what the numbers might look like if we close the year with the interest with the Moody's and kind of some of those interest rates about where they are? I'll also take that one on also.
Where to begin? I think on U.S.
where we stand from a sort of performance today I'd want to say we're tracking pretty closely to the overall equity return of the global equity market.
So think of that as I want to say somewhere in the 4-ish 4.5 percentage range something like that.
Not at the 8.5% that we have for the year but we're not through with the year yet either.
Discount rate-wise if we were to pick it today actually I think the data I just looked at that not too long ago but I think today would actually indicate it's fairly close to where we close the end of the year in 2010.
So I wouldn't expect to see much movement if we were to draw a line in the sand today as to what we would select for that discount rate.
And then I'd say the other -- yes just the outlook going forward.
I think CAS expenditures I think we've described that as $1.3 billion this year.
We have an expectation that the CAS number in terms of what needs to be contributed relative to CAS will increase next year.
You asked about CAS Harmonization.
I'm not sure where that's going to end up quite honestly at the end of this year.
It is still our expectation and our numbers are kind of based on that becoming effective in 2012.
I think rough order of magnitude if CAS Harmonization were not to occur in 2012 you should think of that as lowering our CAS cost estimates by about $150 million or so.
So the FAS/CAS swing will get worse by that $150 million if you will.
And then maybe the final point Cai I'm not sure if this was in your question or not but we sort of measure our CAS performance on sort of end of May to end of May time frame as we sit here today because that period of time obviously has closed out.
We actually finish that period of time for CAS measurement and greater than 8.5% return versus our 8.5% assumption on the asset side.
So that element's locked down.
We're still looking at sort of some of the actuarial data for the population along with the CAS Harmonization we'll give you a better of indication of where we sit there likely in the third quarter.
Saeed this is Jerry.
I know we're over -- as long as there's still some people in queue I guess I'd ask you how many are still in the queue? Because I would like to try and catch a few remaining ones.
I'm showing 9 more in queue.
All right we'll keep going.
If people want to have the time we've got the time here.
So we'll go to the next question.
And our next question comes from Noah Poponak from Goldman Sachs.
I apologize for repeating but I'm just very curious on this topic which a caller just asked about the buyback versus the dividend.
And if I look over the past couple of years you've spent 2x to 4x on buyback versus dividend.
And it's been several years since buyback has been an incredibly fruitful effort just given what the stock has done.
And a lot of that is out of your control.
And I guess I wonder going forward you guys have spent a lot of time talking about the macro environment which in a lot of ways is completely out of your control.
Why wouldn't you look at making a major change in almost flipping that ratio of dividend to buyback such that you're giving the cash straight to the investor to do as they wish with it versus reinvesting in something where as we've discussed here a lot of the drivers are completely out of your control? Yes I appreciate the call and the comment and the straightforward nature of the recommendation.
We like a balanced approach that gives us flexibility as we look forward.
I can tell you that we don't have an algorithm that says 2:1 or any such thing.
Your comments will certainly be taken under advisement.
We really value assembling the points of view that get offered to us with opportunities like this on the call and in other discussions that we have.
With respect to the share repurchase we intend to be opportunistic.
We do absolutely see dividends as an important and vital mechanism through which to directly convey value to shareholders.
I don't know if I was sufficiently clear in my response to the prior question but coming up here in the third quarter in September we will make our determination about movement on the dividend.
And we will certainly take your views and the views of others in full consideration when we make that determination.
But the point that you're making is clear to us and I appreciate you making it.
And our next question comes from David Strauss from UBS.
This might be more of a question for Bruce.
The F-35 the cost overruns on LRIP 1 through 3 that Bob you spoke about and the potential for you all to accommodate some of those how does that work mechanically in terms of your booking rate? Is that something you already accounted for in terms of how you're booking the program today? Does this just relate to incentive fee no longer being there? If you could just walk through the mechanics.
And then as a follow-up Bruce I don't think you specifically have stated what your guidance now has baked in for share repurchase and tax rate for the year.
On the first one I think the short answer is on the F-35 LRIP 1 through 3 growth numbers that were reported this is not new news.
These numbers have been tossed around for quite some time.
They were currently considered in numerous CAPE analyses had to be considered in a number of sort of certification the technology baseline reviews.
So our booking rates have considered that for some time and we would not expect to see a change because of -- it is depressed but that's not a change to our expectations from where they've been for a while.
The second question was relative to our planned share repurchase activity for the second half of the year.
Essentially David what we have assumed is that we're going to maintain the current share count which essentially says we will offset any sort of share accrete from option exercises or shares put in our retirement plans and the like.
So now that's what the guidance is based on.
We'll  obviously as Bob said be opportunistic in the second half as we always are that says typically what we assume we started the year with $1 billion share repurchase embedded in the numbers.
We felt confident we were going to get there.
The current number assumes nothing beyond the 1.3 I guess it's the simple way to say it.
And then as far as the effective tax rate for the year with all the improvements we've seen to date the effective tax rate should be in the -- I'm guessing about the 27% range for the year in total.
Our next question comes from Peter Arment from Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Yes Bob I guess could you give us your thoughts on a need for maybe more portfolio shaping given I think the expectation that we're going to see kind of a nose down direction in future budgets or maybe conversely using some of your robust free cash flow to adding into some of these target adjacencies that you've kind of laid out given your global security framework? I mean is there an opportunity there to -- an economic critical mass basis versus just kind of some of the relationships you just started such as the Carnegie Mellon one? Yes Peter certainly.
We absolutely invest ourselves fully on this strategic assessment.
The portfolio we have today we've shaped with care.
And so we have what we want and we are today where we want to be and we are making appropriate but limited investments internally to strengthen that portfolio to make sure that it's rigorous and can meet these changing demands that we see from customers and assuring that we can be agile and responsive in those areas.
On the acquisition front which is one of the facets of cash deployment that we didn't talk about when we talked about dividends and the share repurchase contribution to value generation.
On the acquisition front we followed a string-of-pearls approach that has been effective for us and we like and that is the mechanism Peter that we have used to as you I think very appropriately described it.
In an accelerated way build some critical mass in areas that are important to us.
Some of the features in that environment I think will be obvious to you.
There are some things we like that just aren't valued very well and we are not going to be unmindful of the responsibility that we have to you to make acquisitions at a value level that allows us to return the value to you and not put all the value in the acquisition.
And that is a tighter and narrower market.
And I think sometimes we see in our judgment companies that we think should be at a certain value level a little overheated because of the commentary or the interest in the market and we want to be judicious in how we do that.
So we are examining actually quite a number of areas of interest in that regard.
But we are not going to lower the screen for selectivity.
And I think historically there's probably been pressure on the members of our industry when we are at an inflection point and see pressures on the budgets for our core markets to maybe get a little more adventurous there.
And we are mindful of the need to have real discipline and real rigor in our evaluations of these future prospects and to be selective and we think that will pay off in the long run.
So we're careful in assessing the portfolio that we have in house today.
Those reviews are really ongoing.
And I say ongoing without exaggeration because the pace of events around the globe has accelerated to the point where you really can't do like a strategic plan a year or the durability doesn't last a year.
Conditions really do change and we don't want to fall behind the value prospects associated with varying conditions.
And we'll continue to survey the marketplace to see if there are acquisitions that would make sense but we'd be prudent in the way we go about it.
Our next question comes from Eric Hugel from Stephens.
Bob from a big picture standpoint can you discuss sort of I guess the current level of company funded R&amp;D investment and how do you believe this trends over the next couple of years amid sort of all the heightened budget uncertainty but again balanced against the growth needs of the business? Yes Eric.
We are looking on the company-funded side of about $800 million a year or so.
I think we're going to sustain that level of R&amp;D.
When I mentioned the word uncertainty in the environment and everybody's desire to see uncertainty reduced I think we can parse out that uncertainty in a variety of domains.
One of the levels of uncertainty is what will the industrial base be called upon to provide in a changing global security landscape? Probably 5 years ago we weren't talking a lot about cybersecurity.
I can assure you we're talking a lot about it today.
We don't think that there are going to be a significant number of let me describe it as large program new starts.
So here again we want to take real care in not simply labeling on resources to do exploratory research and development where there wouldn't be a highly valued application that the nation and our customers will need.
So we're spending a fair amount of time trying to work with customers around the globe in gaining a good understanding of the challenges that they see through their eyes and where we can bridge our core competencies and capabilities today and where it would be smart to augment those capabilities through the application of research and development to get a broader portfolio of very highly-valued systems or products or services that they would find really good utility from.
And of course the other challenge is we have to do that in an environment where we're also driving for efficiency and we think that efficiency argument probably costs both ways.
We have to get our cost structure down here.
But if we can make investments through the research and development pipeline that afford greater levels of efficiency for our customers then we're really helping them meet their mission demands in an effective way.
One thought here is on the Joint Strike Fighter and I know we almost always talk about the Joint Strike Fighter in terms of immediate program execution performance and so forth and all of that is appropriate.
But there are bigger opportunities on the Joint Strike Fighter beyond those discussions that include the application of research and development funds to improve the intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance capability of the airplane to essentially build upon the extraordinary computer capability intelligence capability sensor capability communications capability that's already designed into this airplane in an embedded and seamless way.
In this respect the Joint Strike Fighter really is very very different than any other airplane that anybody has built including the airplanes that we have built.
And that is by design and working with our customers.
So we also think in terms of how do we take our existing product portfolio like the Joint Strike Fighter and extend it into areas where you can get real leverage for our customers if you can do multiple missions effectively and well at quality levels and at least comparable to other systems that exist today or better.
And you can do that while flying other missions simultaneously we've really leveraged the use of this incredibly high-performing asset.
So some of our R&amp;D is going into those avenues as well.
Saeed this is Jerry.
I think we're coming up on the half hour here and we've run in some other half hour beyond the original.
Can we do one last question please? Our last question comes from Troy Lahr from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> As budget is tightening up are you noticing any material changes to the competitive landscape both on services and hardware? Is anybody getting irrational or trying to come into your markets? Well Troy I'll say it's from our point of view this has always felt like a pretty competitive marketplace.
And there may be at the margin companies who may not have the financial capacity that we have.
They not have the durability or the capital structure that we have.
They may not have the quality of the core portfolio that we have that may make some moves in that area.
We're trying to make sure that we don't sit back and allow any thinking to seep into our judgment like incumbency is a particularly safe place and a comfortable place to be.
I think that part of the world is changing and that's why we're assuring that we focus on every program every opportunity every customer every day because in this climate very much embedded in your question you can't become complacent.
You have to take a look at that.
So I don't think we've seen any dramatic expressions of that kind of behavior yet.
We're looking forward as you are and we're absolutely trying to make sure that we don't participate in that.
We want to deliver real value in a real sense and I think we will be able to do that.
Saeed first let me thank you for your help on the call today.
You've been patient.
I know we've gone longer.
From our point of view there certainly is uncertainty in the environment that we face but we're very focused in our company on growth on execution and on returns to our customers and certainly to you.
And we're very much looking forward to updating you at the end of the third quarter.
Thanks for your patience with us today and we'll sign off here Saeed.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Lockheed Martin Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Karen.
And good afternoon.
I'd like to welcome everyone to our third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Bob Stevens our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Statements made in today's call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities Law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see today's press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Jerry.
Good afternoon everyone.
Thanks again for joining us today.
In the third quarter we continued the positive momentum we've been driving since the beginning of the year.
We achieved sales growth of 7% while growing earnings per share from continuing operations by 30%.
We generated over $500 million in cash from operations utilized our strong cash position to repurchase a record level of 13.4 million shares and made dividend payments of $246 million.
Additionally our Board of Directors approved both an increase of 33% to our quarterly dividend bringing the full-year dividend payout to $4 a share and an additional share repurchase authorization of $3.5 billion for opportunistic share repurchases.
Our sound year-to-date performance has also enabled us to increase our full-year guidance for earnings per share.
Since we were last together in July both the global security environment and world economic conditions have remained volatile.
Domestically the environment remains fluid driven principally by the ongoing deliberations on potential reductions to federal budget levels.
The recently enacted Budget Control Act of 2011 increased the federal government's borrowing limit while reducing projected government spending over the next 10 years.
It also established the bipartisan congressional joint select committee on deficit reduction sometimes referred to as the super committee with a debt panel which is charged with recommending legislation by November 23.
The enactment of which would result in spending and revenue changes that would reduce net government spending by at least $1.2 trillion over the next 10 years.
If the super committee fails to recommend legislation or the Congress fails to approve that legislation by December 23 or the President fails to sign that legislation into law then an automatic sequestration process would be triggered which would make up any shortfall necessary to achieve the $1.2 trillion target.
Under the budget act 50% of any shortfall would automatically be applied as a reduction to the discretionary appropriations for national defense programs and 50% to other domestic programs commencing in 2013.
We certainly want this committee to be successful.
We understand the urgency of reducing trillion dollar annual budget deficits and our $14 trillion national debt.
But we also feel strongly that the defense department is already working on nearly $0.5 trillion in reductions which is very significant and that resources for national security should be aligned with our nation's strategy to meet global challenges and not a function of automatic budget triggers.
Looking at the current FY '12 DoD budget Congress passed a continuing resolution that is in effect through November 18.
Committees in both the Senate and the House are assessing the President's initial budget request of $553 billion for the base DoD budget and $118 billion for the overseas contingency operations budget.
As budget deliberations evolve we are very focused on the drive for greater efficiency and execution across the corporation.
This quarter we implemented additional staffing reductions in Information Systems &amp; Global Solutions and at corporate headquarters.
While these staffing reductions are very painful they're essential in responding to changing economic conditions and new realities.
We know the demands on our customers are great and they are being asked to do more with less on a daily basis.
It's imperative that we respond to this environment as effectively as possible.
On the international front we continue to see a varied picture of markets and regions.
In the Middle East and Pacific Rim we believe interest in our products will likely remain strong in areas like missile defense fighter and cargo aircraft command and control capabilities sensors and other systems.
The outlook is much more uncertain in the Eurozone with large national debt levels low economic prospects and high unemployment.
Despite domestic and international pressures our overall portfolio of products and services is well positioned to provide solutions in support of critical national security missions for our nation and for our allies.
Turning to operations.
Let me cover some events this quarter starting with the F-35 where we continue to make solid progress in development and production.
On the development program flight test activities continued ahead of plan.
Through September year-to-date we were 9% ahead on test flights and 10% ahead on test points.
To update you through yesterday's performance we have completed 803 flights and 6 287 test points which means that with 83% of the year done we have accomplished 92% of this year's planned flights that's 872 in total and 95% of this year's planned test points that's 6 622 by year's end.
We completed static structural testing slightly ahead of schedule which was an important series of tests as they verify the structural integrity of the airframe.
Progress was also made on the carrier variant aircraft during the evaluation of carrier suitability at Lakehurst New Jersey.
The team successfully completed Jet Blast Deflector testing and the first steam catapult launch of the aircraft with 59 catapult launches completed to date.
This testing also revealed that additional work will be needed on the arresting hook to reduce bounce and a thorough design of performance review is now underway.
Testing will continue through the balance of the year as we prepare for shipboard testing in 2013.
The steel hull aircraft continues to show improved reliability and performance with over 250 vertical landings achieved year-to-date.
Beyond the quarter on October 3 the STOVL aircraft successfully executed a vertical landing on the deck of the USS Wasp the first vertical landing at sea marking the beginning of sea trials testing for the STOVL variant.
In total 72 short takeoffs and vertical landings were completed over 19 days and flying qualities environmental effects and initial deck and hangar operations including taxi towing tie down refueling and elevator operations were all evaluated with all initial sea trial objectives being met.
I want to offer a special thanks to all those on the government team especially all those aboard the USS Wasp for the dedication and professionalism that enabled these tests to be completed on schedule.
The software development activities on the program continue to progress with software release 1-B flying today it's performing well with good stability and functionality.
Follow-on releases with enhanced functionality are in various stages of development including integration lab tests initial system integration and requirements definition.
Overall the software program continues to have approximately 2 months schedule pressure and we're applying resources to recover schedule and mitigate impacts.
On F-35 production working with our partners and suppliers we're seeing greater cycling of the production line.
Year-to-date we delivered 8 aircraft under our LRIP 2 contract.
4 of the 5 airplanes delivered this quarter were provided to Eglin Air Force Base to be used for training pilots and maintainers at the F-35 integrated training center in Florida.
We now have 55 aircraft in backlog for Production Lots 2 through 4.
On the international front our 8 international partners continue to support the program and we see expanding interest in the F-35.
For example this quarter we were pleased to submit a proposal for the F-35 to Japan under their F-X competition and look forward to potential interest from the government of South Korea.
I also wanted to provide an update on our Lot 5 negotiations.
You may recall that we received Long-lead funding from the government for Lot 5 in July 2010.
That Long-lead funding was exhausted in February of this year and we requested additional funding from the government which has not yet been provided.
We've continued to work on the program to ensure production continuity so that we could protect the government schedule and so that we and our suppliers could collectively remain focused on cost-effective execution while we secured additional funding and work to negotiate the Lot 5 contract.
As a result the termination liability at the end of our third quarter was about $750 million.
As we requested funding to cover termination liability and fund our supplier base on Lot 5 we were advised by the government earlier this month that the funding for Lot 5 that was appropriated by the Congress in April would now be contingent on our company assuming a new and unprecedented contract provision known as a concurrency clause.
Since this is a new requirement and a potentially unfamiliar one let me take a moment to offer some background in perspective.
For decades our nation has provided for its security by focusing on technological superiority rather than numerical superiority.
This is proven to be a very successful strategy resulting in the most capable military to ever take the field.
To accomplish this strategy industry has asked to stretch the boundaries of science and technology to create capabilities that simply have not existed before like a fifth-generation net-enabled stealthy supersonic fighter that hovers.
At the state of the art today it's broadly recognized that neither industry nor government possesses the analytical capabilities to predict exactly how these complex and sophisticated systems will behave when subjected to the extraordinarily demanding environments our customers must confront.
And that is precisely why we have extensive and rigorous test programs to discover those aspects of performance that we all know are unknown at the time of design.
The term concurrency describes an element of a government acquisition strategy.
It results when the government calls for the start of Low-Rate Initial Production while the development and test activities are ongoing.
This approach has been a common practice when building air [ph] vehicles for the military as it's designed to accelerate deliveries while lowering total cost.
Balancing the potential cost of incorporating changes from the discovery of unknowns in the test program with the cost reduction opportunities associated with more volume and earlier periods provides for more effective learning curves and the replacement of older aircraft sooner which is of value to the government.
For Lot 5 the government has stated that in order to obtain additional funding the industry team would need to accept a concurrency clause including a cost-sharing element.
For discoveries that are known that is those that have already been made during tests this concept may be workable as we our partners and our suppliers do stand behind our performance as evidenced by our assuming the fixed-price type contract in Lot 4.
This concept breaks down however when extended to cover the unknown that is discoveries that might occur in the future but are not known and cannot be predicted today.
So we and our partners and suppliers need to explore this concept in greater detail to arrive at a fair and equitable cost share for concurrency changes.
We're also awaiting the results of the government's should cost analysis and have our first meeting scheduled for next week.
To summarize the status on Lot 5 then we need to secure funding without delay and believe that funding should not be conditioned on a concurrency clause or any other clause and we should commence the negotiation of Lot 5 including all clauses and provisions as soon as we possibly can.
We would very much like to have the Lot 5 negotiation completed by the end of the year.
Moving to the C-130J program our team delivered 13 aircraft in the quarter and is on track to achieve the increased production deliveries of 33 aircraft that we outlined for you at the start of this year.
With a backlog of 81 aircraft and robust domestic and international demand the C-130J line continues to be a strong contributor to our corporate portfolio.
On the F-16 program the government of Iraq signed a letter of offer and acceptance for 18 new F-16 fighters with a future sales value of approximately $3 billion.
We will be working with Iraq to finalize the contract as soon as possible.
Finalization of this award will add to the existing F-16 backlog of 55 aircraft and extend the production line to 2015.
Moving to Electronic Systems.
In the expanding area of ballistic missile defense our team supported the United States Army's flight test of our Terminal High Altitude Area Defense System or THAAD and its successful intercept of 2 different simultaneous targets.
This test was the first of the initial operational test and evaluation flights and challenged the THAAD System to track detect and intercept 2 different targets utilizing 2 THAAD interceptors making a first for the system.
Congratulations to the U.S.
Army on their very successful use of this capability and a significant thank you to the Missile Defense Agency for the confidence invested in the THAAD team.
Since 2005 the THAAD System has successfully performed 9 of 9 intercepts demonstrating the maturity of the program.
Production is ongoing to provide additional missile batteries to the United States Army and international interest in the program is strong with an inaugural international award from the United Arab Emirates is expected in the near future.
On LCS our team began construction of our third ship known as LCS 5 which will be the future USS Milwaukee.
We've planned delivery to the United States Navy in 2014.
LCS 5 is the first of 10 Freedom Class ships awarded to us by the Navy last December.
Our second LCS ship known as the Fort Worth or LCS 3 put to sea for the first time and began builder sea trials that's focused on operational testing of the vessel's navigation and power systems.
Following the completion of the builder sea trials the ship will undergo acceptance trials later this fall conducted by the Navy.
LCS 3 remains on cost and on schedule for delivery to the fleet in 2012.
With good performance and growing international interest we believe this program offers the potential for future growth.
In Information Systems &amp; Global Solutions we've provided a significant software upgrade to the air traffic control system at the New York Terminal Radar Approach Control facility which has responsibility for the nation's second busiest airspace.
This software enables the use of GPS technology to help direct air traffic and provide an improved picture of the airspace.
And in Space Systems 2 critical mission success events were achieved this quarter for NASA.
The first was the launch of the Juno spacecraft that will arrive at Jupiter in 2016 with the goal of studying the planet's structure atmosphere and magnetosphere.
And the second was the launch of the twin robotic grill spacecraft to the Earth's moon to map the gravitational field.
Data obtained will determine the structure of the lunar interior from crust to core and expand our knowledge of the thermal evolution of the moon.
Before turning the call over to Bruce I wanted to comment on 3 additional items from the quarter.
I was particularly pleased to see that our corporation was recognized by the Carbon Disclosure Project as one of the top 25 companies worldwide for our efforts to analyze our carbon footprint and identify ways to achieve reductions.
Our investments in energy efficiency are helping improve the sustainability of our products and operations while also reducing infrastructure costs.
Our Go Green culture is driving an innovation of environmental stewardship that provides benefits for our businesses our customers and the communities where we live and work.
In the October 17 edition of Fortune magazine we were very proud to see our colleagues Marilyn Hewson Linda Gooden and Joanne Maguire and our board member Ross Brewer all included among the 50 most powerful women in business.
As we say around here when you possess the situational awareness information dominance and precision engagement that they do this is no surprise.
Sincere congratulations to each of them on a very well-deserved recognition.
And finally this quarter I established the executive office of the chairman to include myself and our President and Chief Operating officer Chris Kubasik.
This office was created to enhance the corporation's responsiveness agility and performance in an increasingly complex business environment.
As members of the executive office Chris and I will act promptly to address and resolve operational and functional issues as they arise.
The expansion of Chris's responsibility demonstrates the confidence that I and the board have in his ability his vision and his leadership.
I'll turn the call over to Bruce now to provide some additional detail on the third quarter financial results our outlook for 2011 and some directional perspectives for 2012.
And then open the lines for discussion and I think we'll try to add back some time here at the back end because there's a lot to cover in the business today.
So I'll turn the call over to Bruce now.
Thank you Bob.
And good afternoon everyone.
As I highlight our key financial accomplishments please follow along with the web charts that we've included today.
Let's begin with Chart 3 and an overview of our third quarter.
We grew sales for the company by a strong 7% driven by growth in Aeronautics and Space Systems.
Our earnings per share from continuing operations grew by 30% compared to last year driven by higher sales volume and segment margins and as a reminder last year's third quarter included the charge from our VESP program.
We generated over $500 million in cash from operations bringing our year-to-date total to more than $3 billion.
We repurchased over 13 million shares and increased our quarterly dividend by 33% to an annualized dividend of $4 per share.
So overall we had another strong quarter.
On Chart 4 we'll look at sales on the 4 business areas.
3 of the 4 business areas grew sales in the quarter.
Aeronautics' growth was driven primarily by the delivery of 13 C-130s this quarter compared with 7 deliveries in the third quarter of 2010.
Higher sales for the F-35 LRIP programs and a C-5 delivery this quarter versus none in the third quarter of 2010 round out the increases.
Space had higher sales due to the delivery of a commercial satellite in the quarter while none occurred in 2010.
Electronic Systems' sales growth was driven by air defense sales at Missiles &amp; Fire Control and the soft CLS program sales increases in Global Training &amp; Logistics.
IS&amp;GS experienced a decrease in sales primarily due to the absence of the U.S.
Census activity this year compared with $115 million in sales for that program in the third quarter of last year.
Turning to Chart 5 and our earnings per share in the quarter.
Our earnings per share from continuing operations grew 30% over last year's level.
And our pension adjusted earnings per share grew by more than 40% as shown on the chart after adding back the negative effect of the FAS/CAS pension adjustment in both periods.
As I said earlier this EPS growth was driven by the higher sales volume a slight improvement in segment operating margin and last year's VESP charge being significantly greater than this quarter's severance charge for reductions in both IS&amp;GS and the corporate office.
On Chart 6 we'll further describe our cash from operations in the quarter.
This quarter's results were similar to last year's both in the operating cash and the level of pension contributions and we remain on track to generate at least $4.2 billion this year.
Staying with cash on Chart 7 we have returned more than 100% of our free cash flow to the shareholders.
$3 billion returned through dividends or repurchases versus $2.6 billion in free cash flow.
On Chart 8 we'll discuss our share repurchase activity in more detail.
During the quarter we repurchased 13.4 million shares which represents the highest number of shares we've ever repurchased in a quarter.
That brings our year-to-date number of shares repurchased to just under 30 million.
And if you look on Chart 9 you can see that we've already matched the highest annual percentage reduction and share count through just the first 3 quarters of this year.
Chart 10 shows the significant increases in our quarterly dividend amount over time to the current level of $1 per share resulting in an annualized yield in excess of 5%.
On Chart 11 we have our current earnings per share outlook for the year.
We increased both the low end and the high end of the earnings per share from continuing operations by $0.05 as a result of a $25 million increase in segment operating profit for the number of other items that offset one another.
On Chart 12 I want to provide some insight into what we are expecting as we look toward 2012.
Of course we'll provide more detailed guidance on the January call but we wanted to at least provide you with the trends we're seeing today.
We expect sales at the top line to be flattish compared to 2011.
That difference from our previous discussions about long-term sales growth primarily in the Aeronautics business area.
Aero will likely see flat to slight growth compared with 2011 as a result of establishing the final baseline of the F-35 development contract which occurred this quarter.
Error of quantity changes the phasing of F-16 deliveries from 2012 to 2013 to bridge the production line and avoid a gap and the effects of our cost reduction activities.
Electronic Systems also will likely see flat to slight growth while Space Systems should remain relatively similar to 2011 sales.
IS&amp;GS should have a slight decline in sales probably in the mid-single-digit range as the government IT market continues to face budget pressure.
Segment operating margins on the other hand should remain at around 11% versus the mid-10% range we have previously described.
Most of the improved margin is projected in Aeronautics reflecting both the lower F-35 volume and the rephasing of the development program and the impacts of cost reductions on our price backlog.
Operating cash flow should be impacted by higher than expected pension contributions in 2012 compared with 2011.
2012 funding is expected to be some $800 million higher than what we are funding in 2011 but cash flow from the core pensions should be consistent with this year's levels.
And our estimated FAS/CAS pension adjustment should be higher than previously discussed as described on the next chart.
Chart 13 shows the potential changes for our FAS/CAS estimate from previous estimates.
As you can see our 2012 FAS/CAS adjustment could be comparable to the 2011 adjustment of $925 million which is substantially higher than the $200 million estimate I provided in January.
We use the notional 4.5% discount rate reflecting the significantly lower rate environment since the end of last year.
The discount rate change accounts for about 2/3 of the estimated increase in FAS/CAS for 2012.
The remainder of the estimated increase is driven by our expectation that CAS privatization will move out of the 2012 time frame into the 2013 or 2014 time frame.
And we will likely lower our long-term asset return assumptions to 8% from the current 8.5% reflecting a slightly more conservative view of future market returns.
And of course our FAS/CAS adjustment will not be finalized until year end when the discount rate and other factors are known.
Finally on Chart 14 we have our summary.
Overall we've had a strong year so far and we expect that the full year will follow suit.
Some of the cost and proven actions we've been taking are favorably impacting our results this year as well as next year on our price business and while 2012 is obviously dependent upon budgetary outcomes we expect to have greater clarity to share with you on the January call.
And with that we're ready for your questions.
Karen? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Doug Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> On the Aeronautics I really wanted to if -- I have 2 things in there.
You'd said you had better margins because of F-22 C-130J.
First are those onetime improvements in margin due to those 2 programs? And then how do you think about F-35 margin going forward given the uncertainty around LRIP 5 the timing of the LRIP 5 agreement looking into next year? This is Bruce.
I'll answer those 2 if that's okay.
I think you're talking about the quarter for F-22 and C-130 are you not? LLC.
Research Division</strong> That's correct yes.
Yes for both those -- for F-22 and C-130 we did have some fairly good risk retirements in the quarter.
In particular for the F-22 I'll say that was probably larger than what we should be expecting going forward.
Obviously the production program runs out I believe in February of next year.
So there may be some potential risk retirements along the way but I don't think it'll be as quite as large as the one we'd experienced in the third quarter of this year.
For C-130 I'm trying to think Doug.
I'm not sure if we had large step-ups or risk retirements in the quarter or not.
I think that was mostly volume driven for the most part with maybe a little bit of improvement there.
So I would say there was not anything in particular that happened in the third quarter that can't continue to happen going forward if that makes sense.
And in the last question I think you have was on F-35 profitability and what the prospects are relative to the LRIP 5 negotiation.
I should remind you I think that we booked the development contract as a standalone contract.
We also booked each of the Production Lots so LRIP 1 2 3 and 4 as standalone contracts.
So the LRIP 5 negotiation will have literally no impact on the other contracts as far as bookings is concerned or margins are concerned.
I would suggest that for LRIP 5 you would expect us to be appropriately conservative to start off on that program.
And our next question comes from the line of Rich Safran from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> I just wanted to ask you about 2 programs THAAD and F-16.
I heard your comments about the test success.
Congrats on that.
Also on your comment about the outlook for THAAD I just want to know for the UAE do you think that that's -- I know you said the order could come in the near future.
Do you think that's something you could book in late 2011 or is that potentially a 2012 event? And also if you could maybe touch on any additional F-16 opportunities you see beyond the Iraq order you just got if you expect that production will continue beyond 2014.
Yes I'm happy to do that Rich.
I'll tell you that we have been working to secure the THAAD order.
And I think our best judgment now is we're sort of right at the cusp of the end of '11 or early '12.
And it's honestly just really hard to make that call based on all the knowledge we have.
We think our discussions have been constructive and positive and headed in the right direction.
I know you know that everyone here would much prefer a late '11 order to be sure.
It's just treading right on the seam of the year.
I will tell you we're especially appreciative of the work that's been done by the Missile Defense Agency they've been very forward leaning here in working with both us and the Emiratis and they have facilitated a great pathway for us to follow here.
So we don't see any impediments I think it's just being workman-like in the final details here.
On the F-16 program we were pleased to see the Iraqis make progress.
When we last talked about prospects for Iraq we mentioned the deferral in the order and it's nice to see that deferral reversed.
We're also relative to future orders looking at the prospects in Oman for 18 airplanes.
And we'll continue to survey other countries to examine whether they have further interest in the F-16.
With 18 airplanes I think we'll certainly move out beyond 2015 or so on the production line.
You may recall that we actually rephased the production flow on the F-16 line lowering near-term production volumes so that we would have a better opportunity to smooth the production flow that would enable or enhance the ability to secure our future orders.
We thought that was an action undertaken that would generate greater additional value in the future so we have done that.
And then there'll be some opportunities with the administration's decision in Taiwan to modify a number of their existing F-16 aircraft.
And there is even though this current round of discussions did not result in the sale of new airplanes the goal of security environment remains sufficiently volatile that we don't really know what the future has and that's why we want to keep the line as vibrant as we can and ready to assess any contingencies when they arise.
And our next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to I guess confirm that the FY '12 sales outlook is predicated on the President's proposed budget that's what it says in the press release despite the fact that the budget control act looks like it's going to chop that by about $25 billion.
And if we assume instead that the budget is going to come down $25 billion from the President's proposed level what sort of sales outlook would you have for next year instead? This is Bruce.
Let me try this one.
I think the answer is that it depends a little bit by the business area.
If you just sort of think of Aeronautics and space especially those 2 business areas have a lot of backlog that extends over multiple years.
And so really if we're talking 2012 most of what's going to occur saleswise for those 2 business areas in 2012 is contracts that are under -- in our backlog as of today electronics.
And I would suggest to you that that's probably not going to change whether it's the President's budget or the $25 billion reduction.
Electronic Systems is a bit of a mixture.
Some of the programs within that business area have that long-duration backlog and some of them are shorter.
But that is less subject to the volatility in the budget outlook in the near term say 2012 than maybe businesses like IS&amp;GS.
The area where we have the most vulnerability to what's going to happen in 2012 is IS&amp;GS.
And I will say I think we've got a fairly good handle on what happens to that marketplace even in a budget environment with that $25 billion reduction you're talking about.
I think we see the government's IT marketplace dropping from about 5% to 10% year-over-year.
And I think that's about where we're seeing that layout in just about any scenario we can put together ourselves.
In the meantime we will continue to look to international to help offset some of that increase but I think hopefully what I'm conveying to you is that I think under either scenario I don't see a whole lot of volatility in our sales outlook for 2012.
And our next question comes from the line of George Shapiro of Access 3:42.
LLC</strong> Bruce I wanted to pursue right now like you've mentioned you returned more to shareholders in your free cash flow.
Next year with the $800 million pension payment the free cash flow is probably something less than this year maybe it's $2.5 billion to $3 billion.
And you've got $1.4 billion $1.3 billion in dividends and you've been buying back stock at $3 billion.
So even if you just continue what you're doing you're going to be returning like $4.3 billion versus free cash flow of $2.7 billion or $2.8 billion would you continue to do that and just work down the cash balances? Or would you wind up lowering the share buyback? Or what other scenario might you come up with? Yes George I think there's a couple of things there.
You probably saw that we -- well I know you saw George that we did a $2 billion debt offering in the third quarter.
We used about $500 million of that to reduce some of our debt obligations with 2013 durations on them.
We have I think somewhere around $4.6 billion of cash on the balance sheet as we sit here today.
I think that is fungible [ph] into the extent that we could either use that to further fund the pension plan use it for general purposes or continue along the cash deployment actions that we have done so far this -- for quite some time quite frankly.
So I think we have the power to continue to do that.
I think as I'd said many times with many of you folks we don't need $4.6 billion of cash on the balance sheet.
And so we will likely draw that down to a lower number.
Some of that again being available for pension so that they're available for acquisitions and obviously some of that being available for cash deployment to our shareholders.
So I would like to think we would probably continue to use the same sort of firepower we have today going forward relative to those buybacks going forward.
And our next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky from Citi.
Research Division</strong> My questions are F-35 related.
First why did you choose to in a sense negotiate this process with LRIP 5 through the press? Do you think that it's realistic that LRIP 5 won't happen and that you'll have to bill the government for that termination? And then lastly with the budget control act as the backdrop if the government were to reduce the number of F-35s that it buys over the lifetime of this program when would that happen? Do you think that this is a fiscal '12 -- excuse me fiscal '13 budget introduction time frame like wind? When are we going to get a little bit more clarity on the impacts of the budget control act on the F-35 program specifically? Relative to your question I want to just say back to you your words as why did we elect at least to paraphrase why did we elect to negotiate this in the press.
That is absolutely the last thing that we're doing.
We have a responsibility that I take very seriously here about disclosing and discussing with you and others the financial performance of this company.
And as we had accumulated the termination liability exposure that I described to you at $750 million on the Lot 5 work that we've undertaken as we've exhausted the Long-lead funding that we have and as in our discussions with the government the construct of not receiving incremental funding until we negotiated a concurrency clause in my mind was a relevant change with a new contract provision that we have not seen before I have not had the occasion to discuss that with you and other investors of capital in this business that we felt it was simply responsible to advice the investors in the business that these discussions are underway.
I have no intention of negotiating Lot 5 in any other fashion other than in good faith with those in the government who are chartered to negotiate Lot 5 as well.
We've had many exchanges of ideas many concepts have been advanced.
It is very clear to all of us and hopefully this will sound consistent to you that our customers are facing a new reality as are we that they're confronting a greater number of challenges and they will clearly have fewer resources available to meet those challenges.
And that's why our company has undertaken for now a multiyear approach to affordability.
Divesting businesses cutting expenses checking capital carefully and engaging in a series of reductions in force that for us are very difficult and very painful but yet we all know are very necessary.
So there's no desire to elaborate in greater detail with you or anyone else about the details other than to inform you as honestly and as straightforwardly as we can about the quality of the business.
I'd also say that when you're looking for insight as to when the program architecture of the F-35 might change if it were to change relative to quantities or timing that decision resides entirely within the government and not us.
We know there are deliberations underway now consistent with the budget control act as you've highlighted that are causing our customers to look at all their expenses just like we are all their programs.
Roles in missions analyses and how will the nation need to posture for an uncertain security future knowing they're pursuing a course now reducing $0.5 trillion so it's difficult for us to have greater visibility and therefore we can't share that visibility with you.
But as soon as we know as we learned about the conditions on Lot 5 we will disclose this to you as accurately as we can.
And Jason I'll just -- sort of one other more thing for consideration I think we looked at instead -- at the levels of exposure that we have from a termination liability perspective we really thought that this was something that we should disclose in our 10-Q filing and the reason we included it in our press release and we're talking about it today was so that there was no surprises when people looked at our 10-Q later this week that we haven't discussed that with you and the rest of our investors prior to that becoming public.
And our next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about both Aeronautics and ES just if I look at the pie chart in your presentation about what the profits should look like for the full year it would seem like you need to have a pretty substantial sequential decline of call it $30 million or $40 million apiece in operating profits from Q3 to Q4.
And I know you highlighted the F-22 in this quarter I don't know if that $30 million is the swing factor but just what would cause the profits to be down sequentially in the fourth quarter in those segments? Sam I'll take that and also the -- you're right.
If you just squeeze for the fourth quarter if you will both Aero and Electronic Systems probably looked a little lighter than we've run for the first 3 quarters of the year.
I think as we look here today I think the return on sales will probably for Aeronautics will probably be more similar to what we saw in the first quarter maybe a little bit around that range and lower than what we saw in the second or third quarter.
And that's really because of the risk retirements that I talked about that occurred not just in the third quarter I mentioned for the F-22 but also in the second quarter for other planes [ph].
As we sit here today we have the potential to have additional risk retirements in the fourth quarter but we haven't closed on those potentials yet.
And so that's sort of where we are with the Aeronautics business area.
For Electronic Systems we're seeing -- we're going to have actually a little lower volume obviously in the fourth quarter with a very strong fourth quarter in 2010 from a top line perspective.
We think that the margins will likely follow the sales excuse me -- EBIT dollars will likely follow the sales at a slightly lower margin.
This is one business area to be honest with you although Sam right I do believe that we have some potential upside there.
I think what I'd like to see is I think the last 2 years in Electronic System we've run somewhere around a 12.2% margin.
I think if you just squeeze for the fourth quarter we'd be a little light for that and I would say it one of my objectives will be to see if we can't get closer to what we've run in the last 2 years.
And our next question comes from the line of Heidi Wood from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Bob I'm going to go back to that F-35 issue from a different angle than my colleague earlier.
There were multibillion-dollar costs associated with concurrency on the F-18 wing drop which didn't service until very late in that program's testing and the government pays out without issue.
As we look forward and we see these attempts to have industry shoulder more of this I'm wondering whether it's fair for us to understand that it introduces 2 new elements to the picture: one is greater technical risk on the heart of the industry and two potentially reduced profits because even if I logically extend what you're telling us doesn't any share line up on this cost-sharing element portend overall profitability on F-35 is going to have to be lower than what we might have been expecting before? Well I think we've thought through this to the extent we can't have been able to given that we've learned about this just a few weeks ago during the government's discussions with us.
We think that there is a pretty big distinction between that which you know that which has been observed in a test program that might require the change in the configuration of an airplane.
We think that there is a method to absolutely assure that we incorporate changes wisely and well so that there is no open-ended position from a government's point of view of the inability to get the configuration changed.
We think we can put a share line on that.
We think that can have a ceiling price associated with it we would incorporate those changes and have responsibility for that.
I think the dilemma not only for our company I'm certainly believing for our industry partners but I think for industry more broadly especially knowing that the work that we do is so specialized.
It is in essence so inherently governmental.
This is not really a commercial line of business that we have here.
So many of the systems and technologies are tailored for that extreme level of performance and unbelievably demanding conditions that -- and it's one of the immense motivating factors in this industry is to take on those technological challenges to put our best intellect and experience forward to challenge the boundaries of what is known and to genuinely create and innovate things that simply haven't been done before.
And that's not in today's complex systems that's not just in let's say airframe dynamics but it integrates airframe with propulsion with avionics in very sophisticated ways.
All who have done this know the challenges of doing that and you can just look at the headlines and see the challenges reside not just in aeronautical systems for the military but in state-of-the-art air vehicles whether they're commercial or not.
We think that deserves a good deal of discussion so that we can arrive at an equitable position with the government that respects where we should properly support our execution and performance responsibilities.
But again we are willing to do and believe we have demonstrated both in taking a fixed price contract on Lot 4 and in supporting the Lot 5 work beyond the funding that we have had to keep our industry team focused especially our small businesses because we recognize it's difficult for them to get financing.
They have workforces that are highly valued to us.
We would not want to see any disruption in that workforce's ability to remain focused with the kind of the economy that we see today so there's a lot at stake in keeping that focus.
And we think that fair and equitable position would result in the long run without undue pressure on profits by introducing new elements as you've described.
And I think when we looked at history we've seen the same general phenomenon that you'd described that discoveries can be certainly unexpected and unpredicted and they can occur both early and late in a test program.
And I think we will be mindful of that and we will bring that to the attention of our customers as we negotiate Lot 5.
And our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First for Bruce.
Can you tie out how the F-35 work this year is weighing on your cash flow? And I guess how much you're absorbing versus the supply chain? Yes Myles good question.
Relative to LRIP 5 I'll presume you're -- don't know if I caught that in your question...
Research Division</strong> That's exactly right.
So far through the end of the third quarter we actually had no cash exposure.
On this program at this point in time we had termination liability exposure predominantly but not exclusively with our supply chain.
We think of this as buying or committing advanced procurement systems and the like but not having sort of the bills through the pipeline to be paid at this point in time.
That starts becoming realized cash starting this month the month of October.
And as we look out the point towards the end of the year and say we were still in the situation through the end of the year I think that number from our perspective Lockheed Martin's perspective could grow to as large as $150 million of cash for the year.
I'll quickly say that I think there are operational opportunities within the corporation that even if we did have that $150 million exposure on the LRIP 5 that we could offset that and still maintain the $4.2 billion that we've guided you to.
But that would be a potential exposure if it was not finalized before the end of the year.
And our next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on the F-35 and then one bigger question.
Just in terms of how this resolves itself if I'm hearing you correctly you're saying you will likely find some middle ground where the resolution does have some cost share on future unknowns just that it won't be all of them? Well I don't know how to answer that in specific detail.
I will certainly tell you our intention is to negotiate good faith with the government.
We've exchanged views we've had a lively discussion here.
They're onboard to taking information we're onboard to taking information.
There are uncertainties that we embrace in the work that we do today.
We have many contracts that have cost sharing formulas with the government that is not foreign to us.
It's finding the right formula for what I think for both of them and us is a new avenue for cost-sharing under a contract as we've tried to look for a precedent so that we could be informed by that which has occurred over time in history we don't find a precedent for this kind of contract provision in any contract that we have and we haven't been provided any precedent from any contract that might be available for us to examine.
So I think we're fundamentally plowing some new ground here.
Of course we're facing a new reality where we'll continue to be confronted with new circumstances is part of our commitment is to be as agile and as forward leaning as we can be but also to act responsibly and serve multiple interests and everyone knows that we have a responsibility to do that.
So we want to engage and start the negotiation for Lot 5 in the totality of the negotiation.
We submitted the proposal in April and are looking forward to receiving the should cost analysis so that we can take that onboard.
And then in this good faith process that we believe accurately describes to be the environment we're in today we can get closure on Lot 5.
Research Division</strong> Maybe tying the topic into a bigger picture question.
I wonder Bob if you'd be willing to discuss where you see the range of potential outcomes for the segment margins of this company at longer term.
If we look back prior to the -- before the last defense spending upturn you guys were in the 7s it's clearly a substantially different company today but this F-35 discussion is one of many examples of the Pentagon acting substantially different than they have the past 5 to 10 years.
When you put it on a pot and you look out where do you see the potential scenarios for the margins for the company just because the difference for us financially modeling between 11 going to 10.5 and 11 going to 8 makes all the difference in the world? I know that's true and I surely appreciate your question.
I'm not sure I can give you an answer as refined as your question is because if we're talking about -- and I know how relevant a half a percentage point or a basis point is on returns I know you appreciate that we've just described for you an environment of let me say more than reasonable uncertainty and I know you know that when you just look out at domestic and global events.
We -- under a continuing resolution Bruce talked about the sensitivity our business has under the CR we have the prospects of a successful super committee.
It's not clear if this committee is successful if that number would be $1.2 trillion or more and where the incidents of those either expenditure reductions or revenue enhancements would follow.
We have the mix of business in both international communities as well as domestic.
We're working hard on the international front.
And we think that can offset both revenue volume as well as profitability and we performed well with our margin generation on the international business and is likely going to depend on wins and losses and just fundamental blocking and tackling in our business.
I will say this: I like our portfolio very much.
I believe it is robust and I believe it aligns well with the aspects of the global security environment that we see today and I think our customers believe that as well.
I have great confidence in our professional workforce.
I would submit to you that they like all of us have been seeing this uncertainty grow now for probably the better part of 2 years.
And if I look at the first 3 quarters of execution in our company in 2011 I am enormously proud of them.
It does not mean we don't have challenges.
We have challenges because we stretch far in technology and in our commitment to you.
But they have stayed focused and they have stayed disciplined when Lord knows there were enough distractions out there.
So I don't think I'm going to be able to satisfy that interest.
Our goal is to sustain our margin generation.
We understand what returns mean to you what returns on invested capital mean in assessing the quality of this company and how that creates an investment.
So hopefully our actions over the years including returning cash to the shareholders and making prudent acquisitions and the way we've run this business has at least suggested to you that we take this responsibility seriously.
And our next question comes from the line of Troy Lahr from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bob regarding your past restructuring efforts on headcount does that really rightsize the business for the initial $0.5 trillion of cuts but if the super committee cuts more then we'd probably see another round of restructuring? Well if -- we've taken those actions thus far.
And I think the best way to answer that is I don't believe today we can guarantee that we won't have to engage in more adaptations in our business if sequestration were to occur.
I personally know that we haven't fully incorporated the prospects of sequestration here because you can't really have a feel today of the location of where those reductions would come nor the timing of those reductions.
But I think I can speak with pretty good confidence that neither we nor our industry colleagues nor the Department of Defense have internalized both strategic and operational plans that are built on the consequences of the sequestration process.
I think that's why Secretary Panetta and Secretary Gates before him both described the prospects of sequestration in very negative terms.
So we don't really have that embedded in.
We'll continue to run this business with greater agility if we see upside opportunities for innovation or for investment we will seize those opportunities.
We certainly have the financial capacity to do that.
If there are more reductions necessary we'll certainly try to build the strength of the business so that we can minimize those consequences.
But we won't hesitate to take the actions that will be necessary to keep the business rightsized for the environment that we see.
And our next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bob you've got a tough challenge.
I mean the behavior of the Pentagon though has been building for this for some time as respect to the F-35.
I think on prior calls I asked you about UCAS and there was clearly a delay by the customer just to kind of drag things out as opposed to improve efficiency.
So I'm trying to understand here what is really different from what's been going on for the last 18 months other than maybe this specific issue over what I would call changing the rules of the game after they've been started? Well for me and I think I speak for all of us on the call what's changed was the more definitive language in the discussions that we had that as Bruce mentioned required us to put a disclosure in our 10-Q and because we intend to be transparent and open with you and others knowing we were going to be required to put that disclosure in the 10-Q have this conversation with everybody today as I said earlier certainly we have no interest or desire to negotiate anything in the press.
That's not where negotiations occur but the disclosure was mandatory and part of our responsibilities.
I think for us it was a new circumstance Howard to have bid Lot 5 exactly the same way we had bid Lot 4 which is what we were asked to do only months ago.
To have submitted that proposal in April and 2 3 weeks ago be confronted with a new contract requirement that wasn't reflected in the price that we have offered.
And as we discussed the overall negotiation climate for Lot 5 we're advised that the additional funding that we have been requesting since February was in fact conditioned on the successful negotiation of a concurrency clause.
My preference would be to negotiate all the terms and conditions and all the aspects of Lot 5 at the same time not selectively address incremental pieces.
I can say that if we had had the funding associated with the undefinitized contract action we would not have had a compelling responsibility to disclose and we would've gone about the negotiations in Lot 5 as we did in Lot 4.
And you will recall we had no such discussions with you about events on Lot 4 that was a negotiation that took over 12 months from the proposal's submission to having a contract concluded in its finality and we weren't having discussions.
This is a responsibility for disclosure that we undertake and the conditions that we see now are the first really tangible evidence of changing the requirements and expectations for Lot 5 and that's why we're talking about it now.
And our next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So you mentioned throughout your commentary on the quarter risk reductions and the amounts for various programs.
And believe me in your latest 10-Q for the first time you revealed the amounts in total for the first and second quarters I believe it was 4.25% for the second quarter.
How big was the benefit from changes and estimates of completion in this quarter and last year? And approximately how large should we expect that to be for the year? Cai I'll take that one.
We've come back and looked historically I'll say we're generally speaking around somewhere between 26 and 32-ish kind of a percent on a quarterly basis in terms of the amount of pickups or step-ups that we have on our contracts think of those as the inception to date adjustments that reflect the risk retirement that I was talking about earlier on the F-22 program.
Now I don't recall that out of the top of my head but I want to say it was somewhere in the $300 million to $400 million range this quarter probably closer to the $400 million actually maybe a little bit higher than that maybe as much as $425 million or so in the third quarter.
So I don't think out of school of what we did in the second quarter and if I remember your question right I would say going forward we would expect to have a fairly good-sized maybe a little bit towards the lower end of that percentage as far as the adjustments going forward.
Again this year and a little bit last year also it's because of the F-22 wind down there were just some recognition of a lot of risk retirement with the end of that production line that we took that obviously post 2012 won't be there.
And our next question comes from the line of Rob Spingarn of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Bob to what extent could unit quantities for future LRIPs let's say 6 and 7 or frankly even 5 be tied to these concurrency costs? And that we could be flatlined here at 29 aircraft as for the SAC-D proposals on the basis that maybe they're looking to just find a solution if you can't find one otherwise? I think that I wouldn't rule that out as a possibility Rob.
I don't have the insight nor do we participate in the determination of exactly how overall risk on the program would be managed.
And I know you're suggesting in your question would the prospect of incremental cost for concurrency changes be offset by a reduction in production quantities I'm not sure whether that would happen or whether that would not happen.
Our goal has been very much to keep our head down and focused on execution and the details of the development and the test program and then on the production side continue to more tightly weave together our global supply chain so that we can improve maturity improve quality lower the total cost.
Our experience is built on a foundation of just a couple of observations and one of them is that volume matters over time on production programs.
We've got a good learning curve in the aggregate for the work that we're undertaking on the F-35.
It is again just as some of this risk of uncertainty in my judgment is inherently governmental it's also the government's responsibility to look at concurrency on the program and make their judgment of what those cost risks consequences might be from concurrency changes in the production bills compared to the opportunity of driving down learning curves aggressively.
And in my mind reaching out for international opportunities to help build the volume on the program.
I would just remind all that the name of this aircraft is the Joint Strike Fighter for a reason.
It's not only Joint with regard to the Air Force and the Navy and the Marine Corps here.
By design from the inception of this program forward it was intended to be multiservice and multinational.
And with that construct came the prospect in any economic environment of greater quantity.
So when we do our modeling here we look favorably at a forward leaning posture that would reach out and build security cooperation partnerships between our governments and friendly and allied governments and in building those security cooperation partnerships we would have an aircraft that by design was interoperable and having the ability to be shared consistent with our global supply chain.
That is the F-35 by design.
So it is possible that future production lot quantities would be affected by either concurrency cost risk or other cost risks or other appraisals of the program.
That decision doesn't rest with us.
Our next question comes from the line of David Strauss from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Bob could you give us some color around F-35 learning or cost reduction what you're seeing there how it's tracking relative to prior programs? And then one for Bruce.
Bruce can you give us some detail around -- you'd talked about the booking on -- your booking on F-35 this year is a mix of EMD and LRIP 2 through 4 can you talk about how that changes as we move into 2012? Yes.
Let me take on both those actually.
I'll say the learning curve performance that we've experienced so far and that we are actually forecasting in the LRIP 5 proposal is in family or a little better than in family with all the experiences of building similar fighter aircraft at least in our portfolio our history of those type of aircraft be it F-16s be it F-22s be it F-117s even.
I think the learning curves we're experiencing so far as I'd say are in family or a little better than that at this juncture of the -- the comparable juncture of the build sequence.
So I think we're actually performing very well in that regard.
And we're continuing to show those sorts of improvements going forward.
Relative to the booking on F-35 we do have a situation where I think next year is EMD or the SDD contract sales are going to be a little bit lighter but not much than this year.
So we still have I'll say the drag of a low-margin cost reimbursable type contract.
We have actually had some of the risk retirement inception to date pickups that Cai was referencing on the LRIP contracts last year and this year so those opportunities are still there.
And part of it is Dave back to your question on learning curves is assuming we do make those learning curves going forward that's one of those elements of risk retirement that will enable us to increase the inception to date booking rates on those programs [ph].
I wouldn't think though that you would see a large increase on the return on sales.
Having said everything that I said between 2011 and 2012 simply because of where we are on those early production lots.
And our next question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski from Suntrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bruce you just touched on this a little bit but I was wondering if we can go further.
I think you said the SDD contract on the F-35 would be down a little next year.
I'm just wondering in your top line assumption for 2012 the LRIPs for F-35 sort of in aggregate are they expected to be up are they expected to be flat and to what extent maybe the LRIP 5 timing of that contract depends or drives that? Yes very little LRIP 5 impact on 2012 costs that I would expect to see.
I'm doing this from the top of my head a little bit here but I believe the F-35 -- if I just think of F-35 in total and that includes both the SDD contract and the LRIP contract I want to say we're growing some 7-or-so percent year-over-year for 2011 and 2012.
The development contract actually is reducing somewhat not a lot.
I want to say $100 million or maybe a little bit more than that year-over-year and the difference is more than offset by increases in the LRIP contracts from '11 to '12.
And our next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick one for you Bruce in the interest of time since we're running behind.
On the pension I don't think you'd mentioned this but the $800 million in funding for next year how do you see that looking beyond if things are unchanged what sort of contributions do you think we might end up seeing beyond 2012? Carter I'm a little hesitant to speculate beyond 2012 given where we are today.
But I have looked at that.
And I'll say -- and I always caution this with current course and speed assuming the 4.5% discount rate held and asset returns would be at the expected longer-term asset return rate of 8% versus 8.5%.
I would think our funding level on an ERISA basis or the cash out are paid into would be close to the amount we're talking about in 2012 going forward.
So I wouldn't see an increase year-over-year beyond 2012 assuming those parameters hold constant with what we're seeing or projecting in 2012.
So think of it as being $1.3 billion ERISA payments in 2011 about $2.1 billion next year.
And I would think that number will stay fairly consistent short of those previous items or factors that play into the payments changing as I said the discount rate in the asset return.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Lewis of Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just want to switch gears real fast to talk about the Joint Air-to-ground Missile.
It could face some cancellation risk here if that does occur do you think that that's actually a positive for the HELLFIRE for a potential new upgrade to the system? Yes Mike I'll take that one.
The JAGM we're watching that very closely.
Obviously we've got a number of customer tests and a number of actually company-funded tests and that missile is performing very well.
You might think of this as sort of an all-capability missile for any target on the ground from both rotary wing as well as fixed wing.
The HELLFIRE is performing extremely well.
In theater it is battle proven it is very affordable.
I mean it has every characteristic you'd want to have in a weapon of that nature and I would submit to you that we have improved the HELLFIRE over the years not just going forward.
We have made that a better missile bringing back a lot of the technology that's already being considered into the JAGM into the HELLFIRE and we could do that going forward as well.
So that's a product we would be pleased to sell for a long long time.
And our next question is a follow-up from the line of Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification Bruce when you said 4.5% for the discount rate is that actually what you're seeing or are you giving us a sensitivity that can establish kind of worst case scenario conditions because Northrop for example is looking for more of a 25 to 50 basis point headwind.
It's 100 basis point headwind I'm just curious is that what your actuaries are telling you? Yes Myles the actuaries are probably a lot easier for me to understand at the end of the year as they are now frankly.
But I think just from a sensitivity perspective I think we're seeing realistically right now 75 to 100 basis points drop since the end of the year.
So it's probably somewhere in that range and that's the reason we went with the 100 basis points frankly.
Good.
First I want to say thanks for your help on the call today Karen.
Thanks everybody for being patient.
I know we went longer on the call again we thought we had a lot to talk about the F-35 and other programs.
We took some time today to describe to you some of the challenges that we're facing.
But we also have some very strong fundamental differentiating aspects of our company.
Our financial strength and our stability our cash generation which provides exceptional firepower for shareholder value deployment our workforce excellence which I believe is second to none and our program portfolio that offers the best alignment to global security needs.
We'll continue to work hard we'll continue to stay focused and we look forward  to talking to you on the call in January.
Thanks again for your time today.
Karen thank you again.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Good day and welcome everyone to the Lockheed Martin Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jovan and good afternoon everyone.
I'd like to welcome you to our fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Bob Stevens our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that statements made in today's call that are not historical fact are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities Law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see today's press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Bob.
Okay thanks Jerry.
Good afternoon everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
All of us here hope that your new year is off to a very good start.
Let me begin with a quick summary of 2011.
In the fourth quarter we booked almost $20 billion in new business awards from domestic and international customers and finished the year with a record backlog of almost $81 billion.
Strong program execution coupled with ongoing cost-reduction initiatives enabled segment operating margins to increase to 11.5% for the quarter and 11.4% for the year which reflected improvements over prior-year levels.
Cash generation was exceptional with $1.1 billion in cash from operations in the quarter after making accelerated pension contributions of $1 billion and over $4.2 billion for the year surpassing the prior year by more than $450 million.
We paid $325 million in dividends in the quarter and $1.1 billion for the year as we continue to execute our $4 a share annual dividend payout.
Share repurchases continued in the quarter and totaled almost 32 million shares for the year enabling the retirement of 7% of the outstanding shares.
With this focus we generated a 21% total shareholder return with 16% stock price appreciation and a 5% dividend yield.
These results reflect the quality of our workforce the dedication of our leaders and the strength of our corporation and the focus we all have on delivering value to our customers and to our shareholders.
Thanks to everyone in the company who played a role in driving these results.
Since we last spoke in October we've seen an expansion and in some cases an amplification of the uncertainty evident in the global security environment and in world economic conditions.
The events playing out in Afghanistan Pakistan Iraq Iran Syria Egypt North Korea China and many other regions of the world underscore the complexity and the volatility embedded in the mission of maintaining global security.
Many signs of economic stress remain and the global recovery appears to be at best uneven and slow.
On the domestic horizon we see change as well.
Earlier this month the administration released a new security strategy highlighting priorities for our 21st century defense.
Citing the strategic turning point after a decade of war that is now concluding the joint force will be reshaped to be smaller and leaner but more agile flexible ready and technologically advanced.
Forces are to be rebalanced with more emphasis on the Asia-Pacific region and the Middle East while assuring additional focus on the critical priorities of Space and cyberspace Intelligence surveillance reconnaissance communications and navigation systems counterterrorism and irregular warfare and effective nuclear deterrent and counter weapons of mass destruction capabilities.
There will be an emphasis on air and naval forces while reducing land forces and on building more effective security cooperation partnerships with friends and allies.
The President's 2013 budget is also set to be delivered to Congress on February 13.
And Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta gave an executive summary look at the DoD portion just 1 hour ago in a press conference at the Pentagon which actually may still be ongoing.
The Secretary described a fiscal '13 budget request of $525 billion in the base budget that compares to a $531 billion defense budget in fiscal '12 along with a request for $88.4 billion for overseas contingency operations.
This new budget reflects the new security strategy and includes the effects of last year's Budget Control Act that triggered the administration's proposal to reduce the defense top line by $487 billion through 2021 with $259 billion of that reduction occurring between 2013 and 2017.
This significant and substantial $487 billion reduction in conjunction with the new security strategy assures that commitments to deficit and debt reduction are met while maintaining an adequate security posture necessary in the uncertain and volatile world that we see today.
While we'll gain additional details about specific program funding levels in the budget as more information becomes available the clear contours of the new strategy align exceedingly well with our portfolio and our experience.
This alignment is no accident.
Even as our national focus was appropriately on ground operations in Iraq and Afghanistan after having committed forces there our assessment of the global security environment suggests that the long arc of our national strategic interest would orient toward the Asia-Pacific region and the Middle East.
That regional security there would be influenced by China North Korea Iran and others who are investing heavily in advanced technologies.
That these technologies would include sophisticated anti-access and area-denial capabilities the advancement of nuclear and other weapons and the missile systems necessary for their delivery and an increasingly elaborate series of cyber systems and methods all of which would require a response and further that sustained pressure in world economic conditions would continue to impose constraints on the resources available to government leading to more cooperation on shared security objectives.
That's why we took action years ago to refine the architecture of our products to assure they would incorporate the most advanced sensor fusion and communications capabilities such that real-time intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance information could be leveraged and that our systems would be flexible and adaptable in meeting emerging challenges.
And that's why the architecture of our business model was structured on promoting sustainable security cooperation partnerships where interoperability would support more effective coalition action and leverage the global supply chain.
While we clearly recognize there would be challenges with this strategic approach requiring us initially to deal with additional measure of innovation and the complexity that results from that innovation our strategy is proving to be durable and well aligned.
The result is a robust and increasingly mature portfolio of relevant global systems that are meeting the needs of our customers in addressing global challenges systems like the Joint Strike Fighter supporting 3 U.S.
services 8 initial partners and the needs of an increasing number of international customers most recently Japan; or our missile defense capabilities including Egypt's PAC-3 and THAAD which are setting the standard for U.S.
and allied defenses as reflected in the recent selection of THAAD by the United Arab Emirates; or the Littoral Combat Ship that is driving innovation and adaptability to a more affordable solution to meet the expanding array of demands clearly present in the littoral waters around the globe; or our space-based assets including Advanced EHF MUOS SBIRS GPS III and other satellite systems that enable unparalleled situational awareness secure communications precision navigation and prompt global response.
We're continuing today to apply the very same energy rigor talent and resources to further integrate systems at [ph] a more effective command and control constructing more resilient networks and preparing the information technology environment for the hazards of expanding cyber threats while driving greater levels of efficiency and affordability across our company.
There is much more work yet to do which is why we are greatly distressed by the prospect of sequestration.
That element of existing law mandated by the failure of the Super Committee to find additional spending reductions.
The resulting automatic across-the-board budget cuts and sequestration would approximately double the $487 billion top line reduction already reflected in defense funding with an additional $52 billion reduction in 2013.
Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta has spoken in the strongest possible terms against sequestration which he described as having catastrophic consequences to our defense.
We support this view completely.
The sequestration process has occurred independent of any correlation with strategy core [ph] structure technology needs or operational reality.
While the precise detailing of the adverse impacts of sequestration are yet to be determined the United States would likely have the smallest ground force since 1940 the fewest number of ships since 1915 and the smallest Air Force in our nation's history.
The impact on industry would be devastating.
With a significant disruption of ongoing programs and initiatives facility closures and personnel reductions that would severely impact advanced manufacturing operations erode engineering expertise and accelerate the loss of skills and knowledge directly undermining a key provision of the new security strategy which is to preserve the industrial base.
We understand well the fiscal pressures our nation faces and have not hesitated in realigning the cost bases in our business through expense reductions rebalancing the workforce consolidating facilities and the like and we'll continue to do so.
And we recognize that the Department of Defense is committed to $0.5 trillion reduction over the next 10 years an ambitious initiative that we fully support.
But our position on sequestration is very clear.
We must not let an automatic budget trigger a default position in effect only due to a committee failure to become the dominant force for allocating resources and shaping our nation's security posture and we strongly urge action to stop this process.
Before I ask Bruce to give you some color and details on our performance I want to highlight an organizational change we announced this morning.
After 37 years of distinguished service Ralph Heath advised of his plans to retire from our company.
I have worked with Ralph for a very long time now and found him to be an exceptional executive in every respect.
He's been dedicated and professional in every assignment and he's set the standard for ethics and business conduct.
Ralph's decision highlights why we've invested so much time and energy in our talent management our leadership development and our succession planning process over the years subjects we really don't talk a lot about on this call but subjects vitally important to our future success.
Through this process we now have an outstanding cadre of highly qualified executives ready to assume additional responsibilities and take our business forward.
Effective April 1 Larry Lawson will serve as Executive Vice President of our Aeronautics business replacing Ralph and the business could not be in better hands.
Larry brings a proven track record of success in all that he has done.
Orlando Carvalho will succeed Larry as Vice President General Manager of the F-35 program.
You may recall that Orlando jointed Aeronautics in August of 2011 after serving as President of our Maritime Systems &amp; Sensors business.
Orlando's 30 years of experience in complex systems and in organizational leadership equip him well for the demands of the F-35.
Lorraine Martin will serve as Orlando's deputy on the F-35 program moving from the C-130 and George Shultz will assume responsibilities for C-130 operations.
I mention these names because they represent the breadth and depth of talent in this company.
Each has decades of experience worked in diversified assignments driven higher levels of performance and have built superb teams.
When I tell you that it's a privilege for me to work in this company I'm talking about the opportunity to work with leaders like Ralph Larry Orlando Lorraine and George and I thank them all.
So I have Bruce now go through some of the details of our performance and then we'll open up the lines for questions.
Bruce? Thanks Bob.
Good afternoon everyone.
As I highlight our key financial accomplishments please follow along with the web charts that we've included today.
Let's begin with Chart 3 and an overview of the full year for 2011.
We grew sales for the company by 2% over our 2010 level and given the environment we operated in throughout the year we're pleased with those results.
We're even more pleased with the record backlog amount for the full year driven by almost $20 billion in orders in the fourth quarter as Bob said.
Segment margins were 40 basis points higher than last year reflecting a strong performance year for us with much of that improvement stemming from cost-reduction actions that we took earlier this year -- or last year excuse me.
Our earnings per share from continuing operation were 11% higher than 2010 and we generated $4.3 billion in cash from operations while accelerating $1 billion in pension contributions previously planned for 2012.
So overall 2011 was a very strong execution year and our results reflect that performance.
On Chart 4 we'll look at sales by the 4 business areas.
Two of the 4 business areas grew sales for the year led by a strong 10% increase in Aeronautics sales over 2010 levels.
Electronic Systems had 2% growth for the year better than what we premised when the year began.
As anticipated IS&amp;GS declined by 5% driven mostly by the absence of the U.S.
Census activity this year.
And Space ended the year relatively flat compared with 2010 as we expected.
Turning to Chart 5 and our backlog to end the year all 4 business areas grew backlog in the fourth quarter and the company increased backlog by about $8 billion in the third -- from -- over the third quarter level.
Key orders recognized in the quarter included: additional funding for the F-35 LRIP 5 contract as well as F-16 awards from Oman and Iraq in Aeronautics; additional domestic and international PAC-3 orders; a $1 billion order to upgrade Warrior fighting vehicles in the U.K.; and our first international order for the THAAD program electronic systems; the award of the NSF Polar contract to IS&amp;GS and the FY '12 installment of the Fleet Ballistic Missile contract in Space Systems along with an award for the initial launch of an unmanned Orion capsule in 2014.
Chart 6 highlights that we grew backlog in 2011 by over $2 billion to $80.7 billion a record for the corporation.
This is the second consecutive year we've grown our backlog and ending backlog is about $2 billion higher than our expectations at the start of the year.
Moving to Chart 7.
You can see the significant improvement in margins for both the fourth quarter and total year compared with 2010 again resulting from strong program execution and our cost reduction actions.
And these cost reductions are benefiting our customers as we price new business.
On Chart 8 we'll discuss our earnings per share.
Our EPS from continuing operations increased 11% to $7.85 for the year.
I'll remind you that last year included charges for our VESP program and the elimination of Medicare Part D subsidies.
However when adjusting both years for the negative impacts of the FAS/CAS adjustment our pension adjusted earnings per share grew 21% over 2010 levels.
Turning to Chart 9.
You can see the effects of our cash deployment actions returning $2.5 billion back to our shareholders through share repurchases and $1.1 billion in the form of dividends during the year.
Combined we returned 109% of free cash flow to shareholders in 2011 and returned almost $200 million more than the prior year's amount.
On Chart 10 we show the impacts of our share repurchases over time.
2011 was the second straight year that we've reduced outstanding share count by 7% and we've reduced shares outstanding by more than 100 million shares over the last 5 years.
Chart 11 shows that our total shareholder return last year was significantly outperforming all of major benchmarks.
The TSR reflects both the strong execution in the year and the cash deployment actions from the prior chart.
Beginning with Chart 12 we'll discuss our outlook for the year 2012.
Our sales for the year are expected to be about 2% lower than 2011 at the midpoint of our guidance.
And segment profit generally falls to sales volume with our segment margins expected to remain above 11% for the year.
I'll discuss both sales and segment operating profit in greater detail in the next chart.
Moving down the chart our FAS/CAS adjustment has improved from the trends we gave in October I'll also speak more about this change in a couple of charts.
Our earnings per share guidance for the year is $7.70 to $7.90 per share and as a reminder does not include any consideration for the R&amp;D tax credit being extended into 2012.
Think of that R&amp;D tax credit being worth about $0.10 per share of benefit in 2011.
Finally our cash from operations guidance is $3.8 billion up slightly from what we described last quarter.
I should point out that we expect the phasing our cash from operations this year to be different from prior years and that our cash will be significantly higher in the second half of the year versus the first half.
We'll be making the planned pension contributions in the first half with around $500 million in the first quarter and the remainder in the second quarter.
And we also have a tax payment in the first quarter while we had a tax refund in the first quarter of 2011.
Chart 13 provides our guidance ranges for both sales and segment operating profit by the 4 business areas.
For sales we now expect both Electronic Systems and Aeronautics to remain relatively flat at the midpoint compared with 2011 while IS&amp;GS and Space Systems are expected to see a reduction in sales.
You'll recall that when we discussed our trend data during the third quarter call we had expected sales to remain relatively flat compared to 2011.
Two key events occurred at the end of the year that changed that outlook.
First we were unsuccessful in our bids to win the GMD competition.
This results in sales in our Space Systems segment being lower than expected when we spoke in October.
Second we've reduced our guidance for IS&amp;GS as a result of recent customer directions to stop activities on the AMF JTRS program by the end of February.
Our segment operating profit guidance is driven mostly by the sales volume.
The margins for Aeronautics Space and IS&amp;GS are expected to be down slightly reflecting a lower dollar amount of profit rate adjustments planned for 2012 as compared to 2011 while Electronic Systems is expected to have consistent margins with what we saw in 2011.
Chart 14 shows the changes that impacted our FAS/CAS adjustment from what we described last quarter.
We ended the year with a slightly higher discount rate of 4.75% versus the 4.5% we discussed in the third quarter.
And this improved the negative FAS/CAS adjustment by $115 million.
We also had other updates which partially offset the impact of the higher discount rate by some $25 million resulting in the 2012 FAS/CAS adjustment of an $835 million headwind on reported earnings.
And finally on Chart 15 we have our summary.
2011 was a strong year by any measure and reflects the focus that our team demonstrated throughout the year.
2012 is expected to be a solid year building on the strategic alignment of our portfolio our record backlog and the strong cash generation we've demonstrated for many years.
With that Jovan I think we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Jason Gursky with Citi Investment.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the guidance and the Secretary's comments that he made this afternoon.
Does your guidance reflect the things that he had to say this afternoon or is there a potential risk either to the upside or to the downside after you parse through his comments? Yes Jason I'll take that one on.
Obviously we're still sorting through what the Secretary is saying.
But I think in any event I don't think there is a change to the 2012 guidance.
Essentially anything that would happen at least that I'm aware of in the conversations that he had today would affect 2013 and beyond but we've still got some sorting out to do to see exactly what that impact would be.
Bob offer any other comments as you might want...
Jason just another thought.
I think the Secretary gave some executive summary views and so we and others could get a sense of the shape and overall feel.
But I think our experience has been entirely valuable to get into the details the time phasing and other facets of the budget proper and I don't think that's going to be available to us until February 13.
So I think we'll give you -- we'll be able to give you much better insight as to our overall reaction to what is just really breaking news today when we next speak with you.
But as Bruce said it doesn't feel likely that we're overly sensitive in fiscal -- in our current fiscal year.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to get an update on your views on the F-35 right now.
I know when -- Bob when you talked after Q3 there were issues when you look at LRIP 5 in terms of the structure of that program the risks involved in potentially having to - pay for work on prior airplanes.
So if you could if you could update both on LRIP 5 where that stands today and then also when you're looking at some of the technical challenges on the airplane such as the arresting hook helmet-mounted display could you give us an idea how some of that progress is going and when you expect a resolution of some of those issues? Sure.
I'll do my best and you'll let us know if it's thorough enough Doug.
So when we last spoke we had a very unique issue on LRIP 5 and it had to do with risks associated with concurrency costs.
And the in -- at the time of our discussion the formulation that we were reviewing from the government had a substantial risk transfer to industry our company and our partners and our suppliers.
Through negotiation and discussion that unfolded subsequent to the call we negotiated the parameters associated with concurrency and I would tell you put it into a formulation that both we and the government felt was appropriate with regard to risk and execution where we are accountable and they are accountable and that's what partners do.
So I think that matter is resolved.
We are in the process of negotiating Lot 5 now.
I don't have a time horizon where I can give you some assurance that negotiation will be complete but we are leaning forward in an attempt to negotiate the final terms conditions pricing and provisions of Lot 5.
Relative to some of the technical issues that you described Doug and I think a number of those over time were associated with the STOVL variant of the Joint Strike Fighter I tell you we're making progress along each of the items that are identified.
I think that progress was reflected in the 2011 performance of the program overall certainly the flight test program that ran a little bit ahead of schedule.
I think most people would have noted that the STOVL variant was removed from probation after personal involvement by Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta.
The Secretary visited the Pax River Naval Air Station.
He spoke directly with the pilots and the maintainers and others familiar with the airplane.
These are folks in the government as well as folks in industry.
I believe he went through a careful and detailed review item by item and issue by issue.
I must tell you I admire very much the personal level of due diligence from a person as busy as Secretary Panetta to get personally involved to understand the details.
With that understanding he removed the jet from probation.
We know there are challenges.
This is a development program.
I've spoken to you as honestly and straightforwardly as I possibly can about our assessment of the development program.
And I would tell you this feels ordinary and traditional for complex airplanes of this type.
It doesn't mean we're pleased when we have to modify an arresting hook or adapt a helmet-mounted display or work some thermal issues in the propulsion system.
But these are observations that are the types that are relatively familiar with complex aeronautical systems like this.
We've aligned our resources well.
We've got great cooperation from the Naval Air Systems Command from the Joint Program Office from others in the government.
Everyone is leaning forward.
So when I tell you we had a better year on the Joint Strike Fighter I don't mean we Lockheed Martin.
I mean we our partners our suppliers as well as all those in the government who support this effort who understand the need.
But what you will consistently hear is the underscoring of the criticality of having fifth-generation capabilities in this complex security environment.
You heard that from Secretary Panetta today.
You heard that from the President of the United States and Secretary Panetta when the new strategy was rolled out.
We take that responsibility seriously.
We have international partners who expect us to deliver on this program and we will.
We have an increasing number of foreign military sales participants most recently Japan who can look at any airplane around the globe and pick the best airplane in which they have the most confidence that will meet their security demands.
They selected the F-35.
That's a huge honor and responsibility for the F-35 team.
And finally Larry Lawson's leadership on this program has simply been exceptional and he is a very seasoned and skilled executive.
He's built a lot of sophisticated airplanes including the F-22.
The team that he assembled -- has assembled is first-rate and we're ready for the challenges that we face.
So I will tell you the momentum is in the program.
Yes there will be some quantity reductions.
We've talked to you before about the new reality.
This is part of the new reality where there are complex global security challenges and scarce resources available to governments to meet those security challenges.
We'll make the adaptations.
We'll incorporate the new quantities once we understand their time phasing.
We will drive hard to have a successful effective affordable program.
And next on the line we have Rich Safran with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to ask a question on your backlog.
So taking a look at your book to bill was pretty hefty 1.6x this quarter.
You finished the year greater than 1x as you said last year.
Following last year's greater than 1x book to bill.
Not meaning to sound like someone who's saying what have you done for me lately just wanted to know if you could comment on the opportunity set for 2012.
What's your view on 2012 book to bill? And what I'd really like to get a sense of is do you feel -- do you kind of feel that book to bill has peaked in 2011 or do you see an ability to repeat that this year? Hey Rich I'll take that one also.
Hey I was looking at this actually recently we kind of did a review of the plan for 2012 and the outyear look as well.
The thing that struck me as I was looking at that is there's not just a large number of I'll say high dollar awards in the first quarter or practically for that matter in the first half of 2012.
So what I think we're going to see at least in the first half of the year is some reduction in that backlog.
So our book to bill will be lower than 1.0.
I'm trying to think off the top of my head some of the larger orders we have in the first quarter but things like the fiscal year '12 F-22 sustainment contract as one example.
The authorization under a UCA in all likelihood of the F-35 LRIP 6 contract and some international sales within Aero perhaps for some C-130s might be highest dollar items in the first half of the year.
I think we will likely have greater than 1 point.
At least as we sit here today we'll likely have greater than 1.0 book to bill in the second half of the year.
In the third quarter a little bit different maybe than years past which has always historically been our lowest quarter of the year from an orders perspective and we've always dropped backlog more in the third quarter than any other quarter.
I think that might change somewhat at least as we see here today that the third quarter will actually see some backlog growth.
And I'm hoping Rich that by the end of the year I think we might see some slight reduction.
But I'd like to think we can be around the $80 billion mark for the year.
And I don't think that's -- I guess that's a stretch goal I'd like to have for ourselves to kind of keep the backlog starting in the 80s.
That's not a slam dunk by any stretch but that's again as we sit here today that's the way I think about it Rich.
And next on the line we have Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Bob 2 questions for you.
One simple and the other more big picture.
First when do you get to rate on the F-35? And the second question is can you talk about the state of IR&amp;D? The DoD doesn't seem to be clear about where their R&amp;D priorities are going to be beyond bomber? So where does your IR&amp;D future look like since DoD may be a less reliable source of R&amp;D going forward? Yes thanks Heidi.
On both of these fronts the answer has gone a little -- it would be a little bit we're going to have to wait and see.
For example rate on the F-35 is going to be function of we think of new quantity adjustments that will phase out.
I'll give you our best understanding today.
Phase out of the nearer-term lots some of the build cycle probably more or less leveling the quantities at around 30.
Again we'll look for the detail and then accelerating out of there.
I think in conjunction with that Heidi our understanding today is that the total quantity to be procured domestically remains at 2 443.
So we're looking at a phasing the phasing will have dual advantages of lowering the budget demands aligning to fiscal pressures as well as creating some time for the maturation of the airplane that might minimize some of the revisions to the configuration.
Both of those things we think makes sense.
I think the other aspect of rate or volume at least in the near term we will in the very short term get some clarity and insight as to the U.S.
government's buy plan.
And we'd like to anchor that as a foundation.
And then revisit with each of our international partners and each of our potential foreign military sales customers not just those who are already on board the program like Israel or Japan but maybe future purchasers like South Korea where there is a tender and others and begin to then build this revised acceleration plan that will lead to rate so that we can do that in the most efficient and effective way possible.
So I think that's about the best summary of F-35 volume over time to rate that we have today.
And we'll get you some more details when they're available to us.
We continue to make investments internally in the areas that we think will be most relevant to the forces described in the strategy that was released.
And I'll say it to you again I think that our portfolio as defined in products and services but also our portfolio of research and investigative initiatives aligns pretty well with the strategy that was described to the extent that we have those broad contours.
For example a number of years ago we established through this research and development facility a cyber laboratory so that we could begin to much more thoroughly exercise the resilience in systems and the resilience in networks.
So I think some of our actions there have aligned very well.
I think the future of the overall portfolio and I very much resonate to the spirit of your question in an era of more fiscal austerity.
How will the apportionment of the top line budget reduction flow between and among expense accounts like operations and maintenance and personnel and the investment accounts of procurement and research and development? And how will resources available for research be thrifted? So that's sort of an open watch item for us because we don't want to see an attrition in our engineering facility.
We don't want to lose some of the innovative expertise that is fueled by access to this type of funding.
And here again I think the best we can do is look for the details over time but we're not in possession of today and maybe be sure to follow on with you in that regard.
And next on the line we have Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So on the F-35 looking through your commentary it looks like revenues last year were down about -- were up about $700 million on both parts of the program and profits may be off $35 million so the margin's off may be 1 point.
Could you give us any sense now that you seem to have the concurrency issues resolved? Do we have any opportunity on margins this year -- or excuse me moving into the future? Hey Cai it's Bruce.
I'll take that one on.
Look without commenting on your math your math is usually pretty accurate.
But without commenting on it the way I'd look at 2012 let's start with the revenue on the F-35 program.
I think the F-35 LRIP contracts are growing somewhere in the 9-ish to 10% range year-over-year.
So we're still seeing some good growth there.
That's being offset because the development contract the SDD contract is going down compared to 2011 as you might expect.
I think net-net the F-35 is up some mid-single digits growth year-over-year.
As to your question on margins I would expect us to see some margin improvement on the F-35 in 2012 primarily because if you just sit back and think about what we're going to accomplish in the year we're going to deliver a lot more aircraft this year.
We're going to deliver and I'm quoting this from memory here.
We're going to deliver all the LRIP 2 aircraft all the LRIP 3 aircraft and a good portion of the LRIP 4 aircraft all in 2012.
And so as you might expect we have a historical practice of not booking from a booking rate perspective at the at-completion position or as we expect the programs to run at their end or at their completion until we've retired the risk on those contracts.
And so as you might expect we've got some risk retirement that we're expecting to become finalized with the final delivery of those aircraft.
And again because a good chunk of those 3 LRIPs are all finishing in 2012 we would expect to see some margin improvement compared to 2011 for the F-35.
And next on the line we have Peter Arment with Sterne Agee &amp; Leach.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on capital deployment.
You guys have been setting the standard amongst your peers in terms of dividends and buybacks.
I wanted -- how are you approaching it going forward now that we kind of have pretty good feel directionally where the budgets are going to be and potentially a lot of moving parts amongst your peers when you weigh that against a selective M&amp;A? How are you looking at that in terms of going forward on the strategy? Well with -- in today's environment we're looking at cash deployment pretty much the same the way we have been and we're not communicating with you any change in strategy or philosophy because I think you know that the first thing we do is start by getting the cash.
And I don't say that lightly but we have a very rigorous focused and disciplined process here that is institutionalized around the company that cash management matters a great deal relative to our ability to both make appropriate internal investments and then return appropriate value to shareholders.
So we're rigorously focused on that and we like the balanced cash deployment approach we have that you highlighted a component for share repurchases and a component for dividends.
We spent a lot of time talking with the investors in the company to make sure that we understand your sense about how we ought to be thinking about cash deployment but I don't think you should expect a change in our approach.
Peter this is Bruce.
I don't think I said in my remarks but I'll say it here because it relates to your question obviously.
The guidance that we provided for 2012 assumes that we're going to have at least $1 billion of share repurchases contained within the earnings per share number that we gave you.
And I think that's the at least some indication that we're going to continue the practices that we've done and demonstrated in the last few years.
And next on the line we have Carter Copeland with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just for Bruce a quick clarification on your comments around the Aeronautics margin and then a question about long-term pension funding.
On the margin back to what you were talking about on the F-35 and your sort of historical behavior pattern on EACs and risk retirement around the end of a contract as you look to the end of the F-22 should we be expecting anything that kind of intra-year quarterly patterns of margin in Aeronautics that's worth noting in 1 quarter versus some of the others? And then secondly you provided some commentary around pension funding.
Obviously that's in the guidance in 2012.
I just wondered if you might give us some color on how that stands where we are today for 2013 and beyond.
Yes.
Thanks Carter.
So let's say I'll start with the sort of the F-22 question would you see the same thing that we described.
I think that was your question as we saw or as I commented on the F-35.
I think there's 8 aircraft left to deliver on the F-22 production program.
All of them have literally left the factory and they're sitting in what we call our flight line operations going through as you might expect flight testing both with our pilots and with the government pilots.
So there's not a lot of -- frankly there's not a lot of cost left to do on those aircraft.
Again they are all built at this point in time they were finished last year.
So most of the risk retirement that you would associate with the end of the program occurred in the 2011 time frame not the 2012 time frame.
So while there might be some opportunities for improvement I wouldn't expect it to be as substantial for instance as we saw in 2011.
Longer-term pension funding again we accelerated $1 billion of the required payments from 2012 into 2011.
As we look for and I think you're probably aware of the CAS Harmonization rules were recently passed or implemented.
I think they're actually effective not until next month but I think the notification came out at the end of December of last year.
We should see cash recovery rise in the next few years but the actual payments from the ERISA perspective looking into from 2012 into 2013 I think we're paying now about $1.1 billion in 2012.
That number grows to about $2.1 billion in 2013.
The flip side of that is the CAS recoveries about $1.1 billion.
So think of that as being sort of a breakeven position.
CAS risk -- excuse me risk of payments out and CAS recoveries in for 2012.
The CAS recovery in '13 is more like $1.4 billion.
So we're getting some of the benefit of the CAS Harmonization but not much.
ERISA payments are probably at similar level in the year after and the CAS recovery grows some beyond that.
So slow recovery I'll say it back to -- sort of getting back to a breakeven position primarily because the CAS Harmonization got pushed out further than we had expected when we started first talking about CAS Harmonization.
That's still expecting in the not-too-distant future for that to get close to breakeven then start to flip the other way around where we're getting more collections than payouts.
And next on the line we have Joe Nadol with JPMorgan Securities.
Research Division</strong> Bob on the capital deployment front you have made maybe a subtle shift in the strategy or maybe it's just the timing but you've done a couple of acquisitions here in the fourth quarter that were -- they weren't huge but they were bigger than certainly than you've been doing.
You've also over the last year or so divested a couple of the deals that you had done a few years ago.
And I think all 4 of these acquisitions I'm including the -- or all 4 of these deals I'm talking about the 2 acquisitions you made in the fourth quarter as well as Savi and PAE they're in adjacencies.
So I was wondering if you could maybe characterize big picture how you're viewing acquisitions in adjacencies? And then maybe a little bit on each of the deals and why you decided to divest Savi and then acquire these other 2? Sure I'll be happy to Joe.
I think that we are -- you mentioned timing here.
I think that's maybe a little bit of timing.
We've had a-string-of-pearls approach.
We like that approach.
We look for companies that give us access to markets unique technology they provide a good fit they have some ease of integration and they meet our overall test for valuations.
I think the acquisitions you're referring to were Sim-Industries and QTC.
They are part of an adjacent market strategy that we've had in place for a number of years now.
We are certainly interested in moving this business forward in the technology areas that we think customers will increasingly value and in areas where we can back up some synergies.
If you think of Sim-Industries in the market for simulators we've been in the simulator business for a long time.
This extends our portfolio.
We're not unwilling to take that portfolio beyond our traditional customer sets to bring in some of those business practices into our core business.
We think there is real synergy there.
We'll continue to explore for businesses that fit our portfolio fit our business model and that will now align with the contours of this new National Security Strategy and the portfolio we've put in place.
So to the extent that there would be a business that would provide for us international opportunities we will certainly look at that.
With regard to the cyber domain I think there'll be a continuing and even growing demand for capabilities in that regard.
Our Systems Integration businesses is always one that we'd like to reinforce and support.
And certainly the emerging field of energy and here we're going to be selective because one size isn't going to fit all.
But we do have some interest in the energy domain as well as others.
I think there'll be some opportunities unfolding as we see the details in the budget domestically and maybe get a better feel for how our global customers respond perhaps in logistics and sustainability and support.
If long-term budgets are going to be under pressure yet operational tempos are going to remain high.
If we're going to have deployments to Asia-Pacific in the Middle East if we're going to find innovative ways to move forces around we think there'll be roles in our logistics business in our support and our supply businesses there.
So if there were acquisition opportunities there we would look.
We've been prudent I think as good stewards of the hard-earned cash position that we have.
We want to maintain good credit quality.
We have firepower that financial flexibility I think is a discriminator of our company along with our portfolio and our selectivity about what we buy and what we do with it.
In the case of the divestitures if there are changes in the market changes in the customers' behavior we are not going to keep businesses that don't align with the overall strategic arc and trajectory of this businesses and we'll be decisive.
So I think on the acquisition side we want to be selective so that we're not talking to you in the future about a lot of divestitures.
But in a case where circumstances change we're going to face the reality deal with those changes and move the business forward.
In doing so we'll try to generate as much value as we can and share that value with investors to the best of our ability.
And next on the line we have George Shapiro with Access 3:42.
LLC</strong> This is for Bruce.
If you take a look at Aeronautics you disclosed this quarter that you had risk retirement of $70 million on the F-16 and another $35 million on the C-130 and C-5 and together it's maybe 270 basis points addition to the margin.
Can you just describe what they were actually related to and what the opportunity is for getting more of those next year? And is there any way we can kind of anticipate some of those coming? And then one other one in that area.
The F-35 profit margin is clearly implied to be down in this quarter based on your commentary.
I just want to validate that that's probably LRIP 4 being booked in higher revenues and a lower margin that's kind of swamping your overall numbers and there wasn't any change in any of the other program margins.
Okay let me start George with the first question the F-16 step-ups and the C-130 what drove them and what's out there for next year and what should you be looking for.
The F-16 we've -- I'll say a lot of that was sort of ordinary run-of-the-mill program execution clicking off performance milestones and retiring risk accordingly.
There was on one of our international contracts a particular item that we were tracking towards that we actually reached closure on in the fourth quarter that we felt justified a step up.
So that particular item which was -- I'm trying to think off the top of my head George that was a pretty good chunk probably 1/2 or so of the F-16 pick-up that will likely not repeat next year on the F-16 program.
The C-130 program is again just sort of the clicking off the normal manufacturing activities.
The only thing that was a little bit unusual on the C-130 is we had a really really good performance on the sustainment contracts on the C-130 activities in the quarter.
And I'd like to think that we have the opportunity to do that in 2012 as well.
We're -- I think we've really hit a stride where customers are seeing great value in the sustainment support that we are providing those particularly obviously the international customers is where that -- most of that happens.
And I'd like to think that that was -- be something that you'll continue to see in 2012 as well.
As far as the F-35 profit margins are concerned I mean there was no -- and I'm doing this again from the top of my head that there was no profit adjustments upwardly or downwardly in the quarter.
So any margin change that happened was purely volume related.
We are starting to get some heavier activity in the LRIP 4 contract as you described in your question.
And that's again because as I said earlier LRIP 2 3 and part of 4 will start delivering this year.
So that volume is starting to come in and some of that margin improvement that we're looking for in 2012 will be on contracts such as LRIP 4 as we start to see production aircraft roll-off the line as we anticipate.
That will be the triggering mechanism if you will for the risk retirements that we plan.
And next on the line we have Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the cash flow outlook for next year at $2.8 billion on the op cash line.
Bruce a couple of things.
One the pension expense after-tax looks like it's a $750 million tailwind or so maybe a little bit less than that.
And then is there anything outside of maybe advances or cash taxes are those the 2 major downers to the cash in 2012? It just seems like even your usual 10% 15% conservatism this would be a bit lighter than you might otherwise have given the tailwind on lower pension contributions? Yes hey Myles let me -- just to clarify what I think I heard.
I think you said $2.8 billion in operating cash in 2012 it's $3.8 billion for the year.
And if your questions again when there was -- again there were a lot of receipts that got pulled into 2011 from 2012 including some fairly good-sized international receipts.
And that's one of the things that enabled us to do the $1 billion acceleration of the pension plan.
So we're actually ahead of the game.
In fact for the first time in the corporation's history at least as I look back in the records we actually have negative working capital at the working -- at the corporation level.
So that's hard to replicate and one of the reasons that you'll see are -- that your calculation from balance sheet perspective that's the heart of your question.
It's because you're seeing some of the work-off if you will that negative working capital coming back next year.
I'd like to think even having said that there are still opportunities.
I can tell you if you talk to any of my folks in the finance organization working in the 4 business areas they will tell you that I am pushing hard to do better on cash flow than what we've committed to here.
And I think there are opportunities to do that but we're just not there at this point in time to change the guidance accordingly.
We'll obviously give you updates throughout the year as we progress and we'll come back to you and tell you how we're doing on that challenge.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bob you were very successful in placing THAAD in UAE.
Are there a couple more opportunities for this? And might you also address some international potential? Yes thanks Howard.
I'll tell you that relative to the THAAD in the UAE program you know that Chris Kubasik hadn't been on the calls because he went out and got a real job as our Chief Operating Officer.
And he'd been doing an excellent job in focusing on the execution of programs like THAAD as well as assuring that we're listening carefully to the needs of customers.
When we look at the Middle East and you start with an assessment of the security climate there I think many people look at the Iranians with respect to their actions and their intentions even in the most recent discussions about prospect of closing the Straits of Hormuz and it creates a very high level of tension.
And people recognize that they have invested in the kind of technologies that include ballistic missile threats and therefore many in the region who have population centers who have oil production centers who have strategic areas of interest view missile defense as a very critical system.
So that as we look at the National Security Strategy that was outlined by the President -- the Secretary when they talked about increasing security cooperation partnerships movement as you highlighted by United Arab Emirates here with THAAD I think if you look across the -- generally the Gulf Coordinating Council regions you would see I think a similar level of threat and risk and a similar desire on the part of our administration to lean forward.
Now you know we follow a very discreet process here that starts with government-to-government discussions.
First and nothing that we would say or do would subvert that process.
But in the longer term I suspect there'll be heightened and continued interest.
I think that those interests will be viewed favorably by our government and I think we'll have a maturing portfolio in the Middle East with regard to missile defense.
I think there'll be a similar version of that experience throughout the Asia-Pacific theater because we're watching the same or similar type of overall security risk the proliferation of technologies the desire to get missiles of greater performance longer range more precision and the desire for governments to have some protection against that ballistic missile threat.
So I think this segment of our portfolio is one that will likely grow internationally.
Our focus is on making sure that we're executing the requirements under the contract that the technology stays robust.
And there was a question earlier about research and development or how are you investing well we want to make sure that we have resources available to think in terms of next-generation technology and how can we adapt how can we provide adjuncts to this system.
Maybe it's greater range maybe it's greater payload.
But to continue to evolve these systems and we think that's a very smart way to address the demands in the global security environment.
Of course you need a mature portfolio to start with before you can evolve that portfolio as the dynamics in the global security environment unfold themselves and we can address them.
And I'm very pleased that we have the kind of portfolio you mentioned that we have it in Aegis we have it in PAC-3.
In our missile defense portfolio that forms a really good basis where some incremental investment could not only satisfy customer needs today but satisfy them tomorrow and can enable us to adapt the system for regional demands around the globe.
Our next question comes from David Strauss with UBS Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of little things.
Bruce I don't think you specifically said the tax rate you're looking for for 2012.
And then back on F-35 in terms of the mix could you maybe breakout percentage-wise on the production side how much of the revenue base you think in 2012 will be LRIP 2 aircraft versus 3 versus 4? I'll answer the easy one first David.
Tax rate for 2012 is -- right now we're looking at about 30%.
That excludes obviously the effects of the R&amp;D tax credit.
But for planning purposes think about 30%.
Relative to your question on the split of the LRIPs I'll remind you this is a contract that were -- the LRIP contracts themselves are contracts that were booking on a percentage-of-completion basis.
So there's very little cost I'll say for the LRIP 2 aircraft relative to -- it is not proportional to taking simply LRIP 2 aircraft divide it by the total because those -- the cost to build those aircraft similar to what I was describing on the F-22 program are kind of behind us.
They're out of the factory.
They're going through flight testing and the like and so it's difficult to parse that out.
Off the top of my head I'll say for the total LRIP activity that's heavily heavily dominated by LRIP 3 and LRIP 4 activity which you would probably expect in 2011 and that will shift over in 2012 to the LRIP 4 and LRIP 5 and a similar pattern all the way through future years.
Jovan let me say thank you for your help today.
We're going to take our increasingly mature portfolio of relevant global systems focus on the needs of our customers in addressing global challenges and we look forward to updating you with our progress next quarter.
Thank you all very much for tuning in on the call today.
Again Jovan thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference today.
Please have a great evening.
Good day and welcome everyone to the Lockheed Martin's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Shawn and good afternoon.
I'd like to welcome everyone to our first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Bob Stevens our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Chris Kubasik our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Statements made in today's call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ.
Please see today's press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Jerry.
Good afternoon everyone.
Thanks for joining our call today.
By now you've had an opportunity to review 2 releases from us today one describing our first quarter performance and one describing the discussion I've had with our board regarding my retirement and our leadership transition plan.
I'll start with the latter.
I'm very pleased to announce that our board has elected Chris Kubasik to be our next Chief Executive Officer and Marillyn Hewson to be our next President and Chief Operating Officer with both appointments effective January 1 2013.
To assure a smooth and seamless transition I'll continue to serve as CEO through the remainder of 2012 and with shareholder and board approval will serve as Chairman of the Board through January 2014.
Chris and Marillyn along with Bruce and many others have been full partners for many years in evolving our strategies and our operating concepts to deliver superior value to customers and sustain value to shareholders.
Together we have built a great leadership team with bench strength an excellent workforce a sound strategy solid portfolio and an operational momentum upon which to build value.
I'm very proud of them and all that they've accomplished.
And I'm confident there'll be much more to come.
Let me anticipate at least one of your questions today.
Why make this decision now? Well I must tell you I love what I do here.
I believe in our mission our values our purpose our people our customers.
Just having the opportunity to contribute at this level is such a privilege.
I'm grateful to our board and I'm grateful to our employees for the chance and for the support.
It would be great if it could go on forever but there are realities.
I'll be 61 years old in September and 62.5 when the transition plan I've described is complete.
We have a mandatory retirement age here at 65.
By the end of this year I will have served as our CEO for more than 8 years as President and Chief Operating Officer for about 4 years before that and as Chief Financial Officer before that.
By any measure that's a full period of service.
When I assessed the complexities in the global security and economic environments that new reality we've talked so much about with the increasing velocity and volatility of global events that will shape our decision-making over many years certainly beyond my mandatory retirement age I wanted to assure that we have a tested and trusted senior leadership team in place who can provide continuity and evolve our strategies over the longer term.
We have that team in place now ready to go and you know them well.
I've also studied leadership transition environments and have made my own assessments about what approaches are most successful and what works best.
Let me give you 3 thoughts here.
First I believe longer-cycle transitions that assure a more complete transfer of responsibility are more effective than shorter ones particularly for complex long cycle businesses like ours.
Announcing our transition in April 2012 with an effective date in January 2013 gives us 8 months to focus on transition.
And as I mentioned with the support of our shareholders and the board I'll remain as Chairman for another year through January 2014.
Second I think it's very healthy to draw highly qualified successors from inside the company essentially a grow-your-own philosophy.
We have an exceptionally productive talent management leadership development and succession planning process that has had full board involvement over many years.
And both Chris and Marillyn have had a series of very successful rotational assignments that have demonstrated their talent and their ability.
And third I believe transitions are more successful when the company is strong and we are strong in every sense.
Leadership people culture financial flexibility strategy portfolio all in place which led to the performance that we saw in 2011 and that which we're reporting on the first quarter of 2012.
That is not to say that there is not more work to do because there is.
But there is always more work to do.
That's why we've committed ourselves to a philosophy of continuous improvement.
Every generation of leaders has their challenges.
Probably the one constant of executive life is that there will be challenges.
Our leaders are up to the task.
Chris is on the call with us today.
Congratulations Chris.
Well thanks Bob and I'm grateful to you and the other members of our board for your confidence in my ability to lead this great company which has a 100-year history of protecting Americans and allies around the world.
We work with the best team in the industry everyday and I will build upon the foundation we've created to carry out our mission to support our customers.
I want to assure everyone we'll remain focused on meeting our strategic operational and financial commitments; on growing our business profitably; on innovating relevant new technologies; on further engaging our employees; and on returning value to investors.
I've worked closely with Marillyn for almost 15 years and I look forward to partnering with her in our new roles.
Her 29 years with Lockheed Martin and experience in 3 business areas in corporate headquarters have given her unique insights in executing our strategy and sustaining our emphasis on operational excellence and affordability.
I'm confident the transition will be seamless and successful and I look forward to reporting our progress along the way.
Again Bob thanks to you and the board for this opportunity.
I'll turn it back to you.
Thanks Chris.
Again congratulations to you and congratulations to Marillyn.
Let me turn to a very brief summary of the first quarter because we do want to get on to Bruce and we want to move on to your questions.
I see the quarter as a strong start to 2012 and a continuation of the execution momentum we demonstrated last year.
We grew sales by 6% earnings from continuing operations by 20% and earnings per share by 29%.
Solid program execution and effective risk reduction coupled with ongoing cost-reduction initiatives lifted segment operating margins to 11.9% in the quarter up from 11% the prior year.
Cash generation was $458 million after making planned pension contributions of $505 million.
Our cash deployment to shareholders in the quarter totaled $569 million reflecting payments of $327 million in dividends and share repurchases of $242 million for the retirement of 2.7 million shares.
These results reflect the strength of our corporation and the quality and dedication of our workforce that I referred to earlier.
Thanks to everyone in the company for the hard work.
Some uncertainty was relieved in the quarter with the delivery of the president's FY '13 budget request to Congress on February 6.
The proposed defense budget outlines a base budget of $525 billion with an overseas contingency operation budget of $88 billion.
This budget reflects the new national security strategy outlined by the president and the secretary of defense.
And the priorities within the budget generally align with our portfolio and our experience.
The Department of Defense remains on a course to reduce spending by $487 billion over the next 10 years in accordance with the requirements of the Budget Control Act but there's been no meaningful movement on sequestration.
I believe our views in opposition to the sequestration process are clear and we'll continue to work to stop this action.
At the same time we continue to work on affordability projects.
From 2010 to 2011 we've lowered our overhead costs as reflected in our forward pricing rate proposals submitted to customers by almost $1.2 billion.
Over the same period we've removed 1.5 million square feet from facilities and we're projecting the removal of an additional 2.9 million square feet through 2014.
Beyond facilities reductions we have also had to implement painful employee reductions.
Since 2008 the net reduction of our total workforce stands at about 18% with 26% of those reductions in leadership positions.
Business conditions and competitive pressures require us to continue to evaluate staffing levels and were the catalysts for the recently announced layoff of an additional 500 employees within our MS2 business.
Finally let me turn to the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.
Year-to-date performance in the flight test program is ahead of plan.
On the conventional takeoff and landing aircraft we are slightly ahead of plan for both the number of flights conducted and the number of test points earned.
On the short takeoff and vertical landing aircraft we are ahead of plan by about 60% on flights and about 22% on test points earned.
And on the carrier variant we're also ahead of plan by about 31% on flights and 32% on test points earned.
Contract negotiations continue on the Lot 5 program with ongoing discussions between the customer and our F-35 team.
We received our first counter offer from the government yesterday and that's currently under evaluation.
And we look forward to finalizing negotiations in the second quarter.
We were pleased with the recent decision by the U.S.
government to add 2 additional aircraft to Lot 5 bringing the revised procurement quantity to 32 aircraft.
Also at midnight last Sunday about 3 600 members of the International Association of Machinists Union in Fort Worth Texas rejected our best and final offer and are on strike.
The offer that we advanced was fair and competitive and balanced the interest of employees the company and our customers as we seek to position our business to meet today's affordability challenges and win new business in the future.
For current Fort Worth Machinists Union employees our offer included increases in wages pension contributions annual cost-of-living supplements and adjustments and a ratification bonus but also sought to convert the defined benefit pension plan to a defined contribution plan for new hires that would join our workforce in the future.
This position of moving from a defined benefit pension plan to a defined contribution plan for new employees has been applied consistently across our company for some time now since 2006 and I'm confident it's the right approach to meet the demands of our business.
Our operations will remain open and we'll implement our contingency plan while focusing on meeting our commitments to our customers.
Now I'll have Bruce go through some of the details of the quarter and then we'll open up the line for questions.
Bruce? Thanks Bob and good afternoon everyone.
As I highlight our key financial accomplishments please follow along with the web charts that we included with our earnings release today.
Let's begin with Chart 3 and an overview of the first quarter.
We grew sales for the company by 6% over the -- our first quarter -- excuse me our 2011 first quarter level.
This growth was slightly better than expected and I'll describe the drivers behind that growth on the next chart.
Our segment operating profit margins improved by 90 basis points to 11.9% and I'll also provide more color on that improvement in a couple of charts.
Earnings per share from continuing operations increased by 29% driven by the higher sales volume the margin improvement as well as the lower share count compared with this time last year.
We generated approximately $460 million in cash from operations while making some expected payments that we discussed during the last call including over $500 million of pension contributions made this quarter.
As a result of our performance to begin the year we increased our segment operating profit outlook by $50 million.
On Chart 4 we'll look at our sales by the 4 business areas.
Sales for the company were slightly ahead of our expectations with 3 of our 4 business areas growing in the quarter.
Aeronautics led this growth with an 18% increase driven primarily by accelerated and higher quantities of both C-130 and F-16 aircraft deliveries and the higher F-35 production volume.
Electronic Systems had 4% growth in the quarter led by our Mission Systems &amp; Sensors and Missiles and Fire Control business units.
Space Systems started the year with a 2% increase in sales for the quarter consistent with our expectations.
And IS&amp;GS declined by 3% driven mostly by a reduction in sales for the AMF JTRS program.
But this overall reduction was less significant than we had expected with growth in our Intelligence line of business helping to mitigate the JTRS decline.
Chart 5 shows the segment margin levels for each of the 4 business areas.
As you can see most of the margin improvement that led to the company's 11.9% level was driven by Electronic Systems.
This improvement was driven primarily by outstanding performance at our Missiles and Fire Control business unit across a large group of programs and also reflected the acceleration of a number of performance milestones and contractual actions that were expected to occur later in the year.
The net of this performance and acceleration led us to increase the guidance for Electronic Systems' operating profit by $50 million for the year.
Turning to Chart 6 and our earnings per share in the quarter.
EPS from continuing operations grew 29% over $1.57 per share we reported a year ago again driven by the higher sales volume margin improvement and lower share count.
And our pension adjusted EPS at $2.41 grew by a strong 22% over last year.
Moving to Chart 7 you can see our updated outlook for the year.
We're maintaining our sales outlook as most of the first quarter growth reflect the timing of deliveries and not an increase in the total deliveries for the year.
Our segment profit outlook is $50 million higher than we provided in January as we just discussed.
However our earnings per share from continuing operations remains at $7.70 to $7.90 as a result of changes in several non-operational items.
I'll discuss this further on the next chart.
Finally with the additional segment operating profit for the year we believe that our cash from operations will be at least $3.8 billion.
On Chart 8 we'll discuss our earnings per share outlook of $7.70 to $7.90.
This outlook recognizes the $50 million increase in segment operating profit worth $0.10 per share and this offsets non-operational items of an equal amount.
The first of these items is a net increase in unallocated expenses reflecting the change in our post-retirement benefit asset and liability levels along with an increase in several corporate expense items including our environmental remediation liabilities.
In addition to these non-operational cost increases our expected average share count for calculating EPS increased due to both the higher-than-planned level of options exercised in the quarter and an increase in share price resulting in less share count reduction for the planned $1 billion of share repurchases.
Chart 9 shows our sales guidance for the year again reflecting no change from our initial guidance.
Chart 10 shows the $50 million increase in our segment operating profit outlook for the year with all the change resulting from our increase in expectations for Electronic Systems.
And finally we wrap up with our summary on Chart 11.
While we're mindful of the open labor negotiations in our Aeronautics business area and the potential impacts of sequestration we're off to a good start for the year.
And with that we're ready for your questions.
Shawn? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Richard Safran with Buckingham Research.
If it's okay I actually have one question for Bruce and then what I think may be a quick question here for Bob.
Bruce I'm just looking at your Electronic Systems margins here which seem to be well above expectations.
I want to know if you could provide some color on the risk retirement events that allowed margins at ES to expand so much.
And any specifics you could provide would be helpful there.
Yes 15% is obviously a little higher than we run in years' past.
In fact I think it's probably the highest rate for any of the business area possibly in the history of the corporation.
As I look at the performance adjustments in the quarter they were unusually high in the first quarter.
And as you said particularly in Electronic Systems most specifically within Missiles and Fire Control think of it being about $150 million more first quarter this year than the first quarter last year.
And as I look at that -- and I think we had accelerated performance milestones as I said on the previous discussion contractual action a number of risk retirements.
I'll give you a couple of examples.
One for instance was we reached initial operating capability on our Sniper pods for the Australian F-18 aircraft this quarter where we expected to do that in a subsequent quarter this year.
We also had a number of completions of block delivery items.
And by that I mean where we're shipping a large quantity of in this case missiles HELLFIRE missiles MLRSs and the like where upon the completion of a group of deliveries that results in a reduction of risk retirements for that block.
And in some cases that actually resulted in a reduction of warranty obligations.
And so we had sort of a double whammy effect for those 2 events in the quarter earlier than planned.
As I look throughout the rest of the year Rich I do think we're going to expect to return to lower levels of profit adjustments going forward in the remaining quarters.
And I expect that total year will be very much in line with what we experienced in 2011.
I think you had a question for Bob did you? Yes thanks Bruce.
Bob at the risk of this being a somewhat sensitive topic I want to know if I can get a comment from you on negotiations with the Machinists Union of Fort Worth.
I want to know if you could talk about the impact of a protracted disagreement.
Is this a situation that's serious enough where for example you think you have the potential to lay off personnel? And I'm only asking this because the news reports I'm looking at seem to indicate that the Union is making statements like they're ready for a long strike that kind of thing.
Yes I appreciate the question and it is a matter that we're focused on.
I mentioned in discussions with the media earlier today that I was surprised that the IAM went on strike.
And the reason was that we have not asked the IAM union workers in Fort Worth to do anything our other employees have not already done.
For some time now we've been converting the company from a defined benefit pension plan to a defined contribution plan and this is a practice that is not unique to our company.
It is not unique in our industry and it's a practice that's entirely consistent with today's economic realities.
Nothing is being taken away from current union employees in the offer that we've presented.
I believe it's very competitive in today's economy reflecting our value of the work that's being done by our union employees.
And it's not clear to me how in this environment how many new employees we'll be hiring in the future.
But any new employees hired in the future will be offered a pension plan.
And I personally think it would be an unfortunate outcome to have a strike over the principal issue of defined benefit pension plans for future hires to cause any unnecessary disruption in the F-35 program or any other program that would put the employment of our current workers at risk.
Every action that this company has taken for many years now has been to stabilize our program base particularly in the face of mounting uncertainty with regard to overall economic resources available.
So I believe this action was certainly unwelcome.
Having said that we have a contingency plan in place.
We're compelled now to execute that contingency plan and we are.
We continue to fly the airplanes and we continue to build the airplanes.
But I do believe in every sense the offer that we've put forward to the union was a fair and reasonable position.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My question Bob is on the F-35.
We've seen with the release of the budget the last few months a lower ramp within -- over the next 5 years within -- for the U.S.
And there's been a number of countries that have -- the waffling I guess publicly of some of your customers internationally has continued.
And I'm wondering if you could give us an update on your view on I guess where you stand on that the potential cost spiral and all the issues that I know you're very focused on.
I would tell you I think the actions that were taken recently even with the phasing out of additional airplanes added a little bit to a sense of stability in the program.
We might be looking at quantities less than we would have preferred to see but I think we've stabilized.
I think the performance of the airplane is being quite recognized pretty broadly by customers.
It is not to say we don't have challenges but we're making progress against the set of challenges.
We have known corrective actions for observations that have been made in the flight test program.
I get reinforced -- reinforcing language from our partners pretty consistently and we had a favorable decision in Japan.
We're looking at Korea.
We're working effectively with Israel on the international front.
I think -- it's quite understandable to me Joe that the leadership in our partner governments are looking at their security challenges and their economic challenges and they may be talking about phasing an airplane here or there.
But it also strikes me as very clear that they are uniformly committed to a fifth-generation airplane because they believe that airplane over the next 50 years will provide the maximum amount of security and the best investment of very scarce security dollars.
So I think we've gotten some very strong reinforcing views of their commitment and interest in the program.
It is our job to go execute that.
And not to conflate issues Joe but that's why the strike was a bit of a surprise to me and why we'd liked to have this matter resolved.
Our next question comes from Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bob I was wondering if you could comment on your cash deployment strategy and whether you're comfortable with the allocation that you currently have between buybacks dividends and potentially acquisitions going forward.
Yes I think we're generally pleased with what we have done historically and where we are today.
Robert I know you know we look at this on a continuous basis.
We're giving it a great attention now.
But I think it has served the company well and I think it has served the interest of investors well.
Rob I'll jump in from my perspective as well.
I look at our cash deployment practice and I think the key word there has been flexibility and specifically flexibility to address sort of 4 constituents that I always think of relative to cash deployment.
Obviously starting with folks like yourself and shareholders where we consider dividends stock repurchase.
I also think the ability to have some fairly quick action on acquisitions by having some cash in the bank to enable us to do some quick decisions and not have to wait on financing for instance is a help as well.
I look at customers and there the ability to make the critical investments from both a capital expenditure and IRAD perspective our independent research and development.
I think having some consideration for addressing potential continuing resolution impacts in advance of sequestration impacts including the effects of small suppliers and being able to decide what makes sense from a disruption perspective as far as helping some of those smaller suppliers through these periods of funding uncertainty I think is also helpful.
I look at employees as another constituent and that's -- primarily that relates to funding the pension plan which I think we've demonstrated our willingness to do that quite long or for quite some time.
And lastly I look at debt holders.
And there I think maintaining the appropriate ratings levels relative to our desires going forward keeping a balance between the demands of equity holders and debt holders is a critical element there as well.
And I think the question is sort of maintaining that balance and maintaining that flexibility going forward.
I think Chris has one other add here.
Yes Rob.
And as you would expect I've obviously been part of the decision and strategy and perfectly aligned with Bob and Bruce.
And I don't anticipate any changes in our cash deployment strategy as I look to the future.
Our next question comes from Rob Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Following up on the last question particularly Bruce it sounds a little bit like your strategy is evolving as the environment changes.
You talked before about -- obviously lead with the dividend highest yield in the sector.
And you've talked about continuing that momentum maintaining the strong buyback and reminded us in the past that you've got the cash balance to allow for that.
But now with the stock where it is you're guiding to a $1-billion buyback.
So have we seen the peak in the buyback at this point? And is there any difference in your M&amp;A strategy? It seems like you're preserving cash for more options than you did even just a quarter ago.
Rob I think we still have a long-standing 50% free cash flow commitment to shareholders.
That's obviously been changing over time such that now the dividend practically gets us to the 50% of free cash flow.
I want to be able to remain opportunistic as far as share repurchases are concerned.
And as you might expect if we took a look at what we spent in the first quarter this year we actually spent almost the exact same amount as we spent in the first quarter of last year.
So we're tracking very closely to both $0.25 billion that we committed to as well as short tracking to where we were last year.
I think we'll be opportunistic.
I mean obviously the stock has run up some on price.
I think our commitment relative to the dividends has been very consistent.
We've had 8 consecutive years -- 9 consecutive years excuse me of double-digit increases in our dividend policy.
And as I always say I think that's -- our past track record is the best indicator of where we're going in the future with that -- with regard to that.
I do think on the acquisition side we are still in that marketplace as I've said on the first quarter call.
I do like having the flexibility to make quick decisions relative to engaging.
There is more competition I think with some of the acquisitions that we're looking at.
And so I think there's not a huge change as you said kind of a change in the style going forward relative to cash deployment.
I wouldn't say it's a huge change but we are mindful of -- this is a little bit a different environment than we've been in the past.
Our next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
I believe you had 12 weeks versus 13 and yet your sales were particularly strong and I know you had a pull forwards in aeronautical.
Can you give us a little more color and just why they were quite so strong x the aeronautical which I think you've already explained? Yes Cai I'll take that one on.
It was 12 weeks to your point and I'll maybe anticipate the next question the 14th week happens in the third quarter of this year.
So you may see the offset of that in the third quarter coming up.
Most of the sales increase was frankly on deliveries as opposed to cost volume and is -- and particularly true obviously in the Aeronautics business area but that was also true in large part in Electronic Systems.
I think as I looked at least at IS&amp;GS I was particularly pleased to see where they ended the first quarter even though they were down 3% the fact that it was down 3%.
And they've got a fairly large portion of sales that are sort of cost-based POC percentage of completion-based sales and were still only down 3%.
I think it's a real help as far as me feeling good about their performance for the rest of the year.
I mentioned some growth in Intelligence that helped offset some of the AMF JTRS reduction.
That obviously would have been greater had we had another week in the quarter.
So I think that's benefited us.
Again I think as I said at the -- with the prepared remarks I think we were a little bit higher in sales in the first quarter than we had anticipated especially given the 12 weeks.
I think it's a little too early.
Obviously we held the sales outlook constant for the year.
I think it's a little too early to say there's an increase in the rest of the year out there.
So we've kept -- committed to the $45 billion to $46 billion.
And I'll leave it at that.
Our next question comes from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm interested in IS&amp;GS in that -- just trying to understand when you look forward -- we've seen a little bit of contraction in backlog.
And if you're looking forward and you split this into defense intel and civil how are you seeing the outlook right now over the next few years in those different markets? And then what are you seeing also in terms of the competitive environment? Are you seeing more competition on individual contracts as they come up? Yes Doug I'll try that one as well.
As we look at IS&amp;GS and I'm just kind of looking at some of my notes here I think the surprise -- not a surprise but the biggest driver of the downer in the first quarter as I said within the defense line of business again offset in large part by the Intelligence side civil kind of stayed flat relative to the prior year's first quarter.
And I think going forward that's probably going to be somewhat the story for the rest of this year.
The Civil business is going to be flat to slightly lower than it was last year.
Defense was going to be down primarily because of the AMF JTRS.
Intelligence is going to be down to slightly flat but possibly with some growth because of what we saw happen in the first quarter.
I'm optimistic really in all 3 lines of business relative to our ability to grow some of the cyber activities.
Cutting across as I've said all 3 lines of business.
I think we're finally starting to see -- I know you guys have probably been tired of us talking about cyber for so long without much results across the industry but I think we're starting to see some traction there that has been helping us to have some growth there.
Going forward there's also opportunities.
As you all notice this is a business area where we have most of our adjacent market opportunities and that includes the energy health care.
We made the acquisition last year with QTC from a health care perspective.
And I think that's got some prospects to help maybe mitigate some of the -- particularly lightness in the defense in the near term.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you just talk -- and guess it's mostly Bruce but can you talk a little bit about the order environment? In the past you talked about the first half would be relatively weak.
And I know the Aeronautics shipments were up but the backlog there did decline $2 billion sequentially.
So can you just talk about how that backlog in the order activity is going to look as we look through the year? Yes sure Sam.
I like to think we teed it up as we expected to happen in the first quarter.
I think in the January probably said we expect it to go down sequentially.
I'll say as I sit here today I think second quarter is going to go down from the first quarter although I'll say a lot of that is dependent upon the ongoing F-35 negotiations.
So depending on when the LRIP 5 negotiation finishes depending on when we get additional funding for the Undefinitized Contractual Action or the UCA for LRIP 6 and depending on when we get the long-lead funding for LRIP 7 that will bounce between second and third quarter likely.
If those all were to happen in the second quarter we might actually see some growth.
If not I think we'll have a big third quarter.
We are expecting in the third quarter to have some good government satellite orders.
We're also expecting the F-16 mod program for the Taiwanese government to happen in the third quarter.
And in fourth quarter we always expect that to be our largest order of all 4 quarters.
That's where we get the orders for the fiscal year the new fiscal year coming up.
And think about it as fleet ballistic missile PAC-3 and in this case the C-5 FY '13 order which is getting bigger and bigger every year as those quantities go up.
So I think I keyed up at the last call that we thought by the end of this year we'd get close to where we were at the end of last year and I still think that's kind of where we see it as we sit here today.
Our next question comes from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on cash.
I want to focus in on the cadence for cash generation for the rest of this year having you remind us perhaps of what your pension contribution plans are for this year.
Perhaps pension contributions for next year as well.
And just talk about the impact of FAS/CAS Harmonization and how you are viewing that at this point from cash generation as we move into some of the out-years.
But if you could give us a flavor of cadence for the rest of this year what cash might do next year particularly as it relates to pension contributions.
And then longer term what FAS/CAS is going to do for you.
Yes Jason let me try to address all of those for you.
You talked about the cadence of cash for the year and pension contributions.
I tried to tee up actually on the I think -- probably the December call or the October call excuse me.
If not October definitely January that we're going to have a little different profile in cash in 2012 as maybe compared to prior years where we're going to have a lower first half of the year in cash and probably a higher second half of the year than we've experienced in previous years.
I still think that's going to happen.
First quarter obviously showed -- followed suit to that pattern if you will.
Second quarter I'm expecting it to look a lot like the first quarter basically.
We've already made a $600 million contribution to the pension plan.
That satisfies all of the required contributions to the pension plan in 2011.
That's the full $1.1 billion roughly.
We also had 2 tax payments as we normally do in the second quarter and that's why it's keeping it at that $0.5 billion level.
We do think the second half of the year will be much higher than the first 2 quarters and get to the $3.8 billion.
Again we told you and at least I told you in the prepared remarks that I -- we're increasing or at least feel more confident in our ability to generate a $3.8 billion at least that much with the additional operating profit that we're generating.
I think you asked -- I'm trying to recall this.
I think you asked what the contribution for pensions was next year.
It grows fairly considerably.
Just think of it as $1.1 billion this year.
It's probably another $1 billion-ish next year to $2.1 billion or so.
The CAS contribution grows slightly maybe $300 million or $400 million as we sit here today.
The real -- I think the real heart of your question Jason is so what happens over time with that contribution? And you should think of us from a sort of a CAS Harmonization perspective as having roughly $4 billion of advanced contributions to the ERISA versus what we recovered from a CAS perspective.
And so what CAS Harmonization is doing is spreading that advanced funding if you will that $4 billion over the period of the CAS Harmonization recovery.
So think of that as 2013 through 2017.
So that'll be spread -- not quite peanut butter but 25% increments each year.
25% 50% 75% and 100% over that period of time.
So we expect the operating cash will get a pretty significant benefit from the recovery of that previously funded ERISA payments over the next few years.
Our next question comes from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on Aeronautics.
First can you give us your latest view on what 2012 versus 2011 units by program should look like? And then if you could provide any commentary on '13 versus '12 as well even if just directionally that'd be helpful.
And then on Aeronautics' margins that kind of been reset lower as you're layering in more lower-margin revenue the guidance I guess implies they kind of moved back towards '11 through the rest of the year.
I'm just wondering if you could provide any comments on -- your thoughts on the direction of the Aeronautics margin beyond 2012 for the next couple of years.
Noah I'll take that as well.
So in terms of the deliveries by program I think was the first part of your question maybe '12 versus '11 I think we're up pretty significantly in our F-16 deliveries especially in the year 2012 versus '11.
We're going to be somewhere around the 40 aircraft in 2012 for F-16s versus -- I think we did 22 in 2011.
Quite a few of those get delivered off of the Turkish assembly line.
I think more than 1/2 if I recall come off the Turkish line.
The rest of those come off of the Fort Worth F-16 line.
C-130s are fairly constant to last year.
We'll do -- I think we did 33 last year.
We'll do that number maybe 34 this year.
The other program has got some quantity increases as the C-5 program.
We delivered 2 last year.
We'll likely do about 6 this year.
I think the F-35 is probably well known and will stay fairly flat in that period of time somewhere in the 30 aircraft mode.
I'll remind you again we're still booking those early Low-Rate initial Production contracts on a percentage of completion basis.
So sales will not tie to the deliveries of those aircraft if you will.
And then I think you talked about the Aeronautics margin this year and going forward.
We have been talking about the aero margin coming down when the associated volume of the F-35 program starts to pick up.
And that program brings with it greater weight at a lower margin.
We still think that's the case.
I think as I look forward we're going to come down some from where we are in 2012.
Frankly we benefited in 2011 and we're still benefiting in 2012 from a number of the cost-reduction activities that we've put in place over the past 18 months or so.
Think of those as Bob talked about some facility issues or facility reduction some headcount reductions.
Some of that benefits the U.S.
government.
Some of that benefits the contractor in this case us.
And we're seeing that materialize in margin improvements not just in Aeronautics but especially in Electronic Systems as well.
That helped 2012 from where I kind of thought we'd be a year ago.
I still think we're going to come off that number the 11% number going forward because of the F-35 volume.
We'll be somewhere in the 10-ish.
10% 10.5% range would be my guesstimate over the next couple of years from a margin perspective for Aero.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Bob you talked about the flight test program for the F-35 tracking ahead of schedule.
I'm curious if you can talk about it not from the hardware side but from the software side and kind of some of the schedule milestones that you're looking at there where you are relative to the respective block schedules and whether you're on par with the plan or still tracking a few months behind.
Yes Myles.
It just so happens that we have our Chief Operating Officer here with us today who knows everything there is to know about F-35 software schedules.
Yes Myles let me talk about Block 2A.
That's the next milestone that we're focused on.
We're a couple of months behind schedule.
There's some pressure on that.
The good news is that both ourselves and our customers see this status in the same fashion and we're working on a recovery plan.
So sometime in the middle of 2012 whether it's July or September in that time frame we will be in a position to deliver Block 2A.
And again the ultimate delivery under the development plan for the remaining of the software is due in the 2016 2017 time frame.
So we have 3 years to get to 2B and the IOC.
So I'm pleased with the progress that we're making.
About 90% of the airborne software code has already been written.
And a little more than 85% is in the lab and in flight tests.
So we're tracking this on a regular basis made some good progress here of late and confident the team will deliver.
Our next question comes from George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
Yes Bruce I wanted to pursue the F-35 margin.
Based on the lot of disclosure that you gave in the report it looks like the F-35 margin on the production went up this year from last year.
If you could just talk a little bit about what caused that and where we might expect it to go.
Yes George.
As usual you're pretty perceptive.
And I think you gave us a back-handed compliment on the disclosure so we appreciate that as well.
I'll pass that along to the team.
The F-35 margins on the production side on the Low-Rate Initial Production contracts -- I think I tried to tee up in the last couple of calls that we're nearing completion of the deliveries of each one of the early early LRIP contracts.
And so in the case of I believe of LRIP 1 and LRIP 2 we're far enough along on deliveries of those 2 in particular that we did have some performance adjustments on the positive side simply reflecting the fact that we've come -- in the case of LRIP 1 we've delivered those aircraft.
In the case of LRIP 2 we're making very good progress on completions of the aircraft out of the factory for that lot as well.
And as you would expect the risk retirements associated with that progress enabled us to make an improvement in the performance adjustments that we just talked about.
Going forward I think there might be some potential for some additional on the latter -- additional LRIP 2 or LRIP 3.
I don't think anything sizable.
And I think the overall margins as far as where we see it is kind of -- think of between mid and double-digit sorts of levels for the year is where we think the LRIP contracts will come out in total.
Our next question comes from Michael Lewis of Lazard Capital.
Research Division</strong> Yes and I just wanted to circle back on F-35 for a second and get your opinion on exactly how you expect the Congress to come back with these markups and what else you would expect whether there's additional aircraft that could be brought back into the program in '13 and '14.
I believe that the fiscal '13 bill which is on the hill now is being marked.
And let me say so far because we're not completely through these discussions.
I think the early indication is the House marked it 29 airplanes the Senate has not yet marked.
Our conclusion after discussions again recognizing we're not through with the process is that there's a good level of support for the quantity of the program that's been described in the rephasing of the production plan.
So I have this sense that there is a view that we've got the program better managed and better focused than we're earning value in both the flight test program and on the production line and that we need to stabilize the production build focus on cost reduction and affordability and there's a general level of support for the quantities that Bruce and I have referred you to over time.
We see those quantities as being let me say within a range of 30 to 32-ish kind of airplanes flat for a couple of years and that's the U.S.
content.
So I think -- and a corollary to your question is can that be changed? I don't think it's likely to be changed from the U.S.
domestic buy.
But we might see an increase in airplanes probably not in the very near term but we could see an increase in airplanes during this flattish period where international customers to come forward and combine their buy with the U.S.
buy.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I'd wanted to go back this is probably for Bruce and talk about the kind of elephant in the room and sequestration and contingency planning and how you prepare for that kind of looming wall.
And I recall last year as we led up to the debt ceiling negotiation and the potential for a government shutdown you dialed back a bit on the cash deployment in the case that you may need it to self-fund some things.
And so I wonder if there are scenarios that you evaluate as we move closer to the end of the year and you think about some of the things that may happen in terms of sequestration and ways you may deal with it if there's a scenario where we could see that sort of action being taken again.
Carter great question.
And as you would probably expect we are looking at multiple scenarios.
I'll be honest here and say they're difficult because they're kind of scenarios of our own making since we don't have a whole lot of direction that we can rely on as far as what the effects of sequestration will actually have on an individual program basis.
So as I said you would expect us to be doing some scenario playing out.
We're doing that right now as we speak.
I think we'll get a little better visibility possibly as we head into the summer time frame from our customer in this regard.
At least as I've looked at it Carter the thing that I'm watching the closest and I think may be the most interesting part relative to 2012 going forward is the very likely chance that we're going to have a continuing resolution in the first quarter of the next fiscal year.
So in the fourth quarter of 2012.
And I think it's going to be an interesting study to see if our government customers -- by definition continuing resolution normally says you kind of spend at the same level of the new fiscal year as you did at the prior fiscal year.
It's going to be interesting to see what happens in this continuing resolution with the prospects of a sequestration 3 months after the continuing resolution will start if it starts.
And specifically whether or not customers feel comfortable or not sort of holding the line at the same level as the prior fiscal year or whether or not we see a reduction in the continuing resolution in anticipation of sequestration.
So those obviously are prospects that we're concerned about.
You read what I was trying to describe relative to cash deployment rank.
We're trying to keep all of our options open there and do what makes the most efficient sense for us to continue performing throughout the rest of this calendar year.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Bob Bruce is having all the fun here.
Maybe I could just -- your could touch base on further portfolio shaping.
This is something I know that you guys evaluate on a constant basis.
But what's the latest status now that we've got this kind of fog bank out there with sequestration and everything else and what you're seeing on the budgets? You're -- I think you refer to it as fog bank.
The uncertainty associated with sequestration does add a new dimension to portfolio shaping.
We have this portfolio shaping over time.
We very much like the quality of the portfolio we have now.
We think the portfolio in the core business actually has the potential for future growth with international expansion.
And as Bruce mentioned in his remarks earlier we're looking to add content to the company through adjacent markets.
We're constantly evaluating this portfolio.
I rather think what you should expect to see from us are cost reductions of the nature we've been describing in facilities consolidations that unfortunately are very difficult and painful reductions in force where the programs are relevant to the businesses have been reshaped.
We're focusing maximum attention on efficiency that drives affordability for our customers.
I would like to get some more visibility as to the more specific consequences of sequestration because it's such a significant number.
And as Bruce mentioned it's not very specifically detailed that we would like to see more about that.
And then we would add that as an overlay to our ongoing evaluation of how our portfolio is performing today and likely to perform in the future.
We have a sufficient amount of firepower to add to our portfolio.
We have sufficient talent and leadership in the company to add resources to any segment of that portfolio to either improve its performance or to take segments of our portfolio into new markets with new customers to facilitate future growth.
But insofar as sequestration is sitting out there I think we're going to have to go along a little bit so that we have a broader knowledge base and we'd like to make our decisions with a little higher confidence that we understand the circumstances and the implications of those decisions before we make them.
So with the uncertainty I think we're going to continue our evaluation here.
Shawn this is Jerry.
I'm afraid we're coming up on the hour and we do have a hard stop here today.
So maybe we'll let Bob make some final comments? But we appreciate everybody's questions.
Well certainly.
Let me thank everybody again for joining the call today.
We are going to stay focused on being very strong in a tough environment and are taking all the actions that are necessary to drive future growth in the company.
And we are all looking forward to seeing you in July.
Thanks Shawn.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome everyone to the Lockheed Martin Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Karen and good morning.
I'd like to welcome everyone to our second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Bob Stevens our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Chris Kubasik our Vice Chairman President and Chief Operating Officer; and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Statements made in today's call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see today's press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Jerry.
Thanks everyone for being with us today.
We'll proceed on the assumption that you had an opportunity to review our releases this morning.
Since we last spoke in April we've undertaken a fair amount of international travel to talk directly with our customers and government leaders consistent with our strategy to increase our international work while we rebalance national security spending here in the United States.
While all governments are clearly watching the global economic environment all are keenly aware of growing security challenges.
As we assess our portfolio we believe we possess the systems the capabilities the skills and the resources to support our security cooperation partners around the globe.
And I was very gratified to see strong broad-based operational performance in the second quarter throughout the company based on solid execution and discipline focus.
We believe our portfolio gives us opportunities to continue to expand international sales.
Relative to the government fiscal year '13 defense budget the House has marked and committee both the Defense Authorization Bill and all 12 appropriation bills including defense.
And the Senate has marked the Defense Authorization Bill and committee and will likely mark the Defense Appropriation Bill by the end of this month.
At this point however we do not expect the bills to be in place at the beginning of the government's fiscal year on October 1 but rather have a continuing resolution that will commence on 1 October and likely extend through the end of the calendar year enabling the Congress to convene a lame duck session after the election where we believe a broader number of very important initiatives like the debt limit extension entitlement reform tax policy and spending levels together sometimes referred to as the fiscal cliff issues will be addressed.
Sequestration continues to be a great concern to us.
There is at present very little insight or detailed understanding as to how sequestration will be implemented even though this law requiring an additional $55 billion reduction in both defense and in non-defense discretionary accounts will take effect January 2 94 days into the government fiscal year.
Without sufficient planning information we have been unable to more precisely estimate the adverse impacts and have petitioned the administration and the Congress to stop sequestration and replace it with a more constructive process or if sequestration is to occur provide the necessary planning information so we can properly and responsibly prepare to act.
I'll be happy to cover these or any other topics in more detail during our discussion but first let's turn to Chris for the operational report and Bruce for the financials.
Chris? Well thanks Bob.
From an operating perspective we had a very strong quarter in an uncertain and challenging environment.
In the area of new business we had several multiyear awards that allow us to offer innovative relevant and affordable solutions to our customers.
In Electronic Systems the U.S.
Navy awarded a 5-year $1 billion contract to provide more than 200 digital cockpits and integrated systems and sensors for the new MH-60 Romeo and CR helicopters.
The Navy will realize significant savings due to the multiyear contracting vehicle.
In Information Systems &amp; Global Solutions our team continues to build upon their impressive string of competitive wins over the last 6 months.
We were previously awarded the National Science Foundation NRT contract and the DoD Cyber Crime Center contract.
This quarter we won the Defense Information System Agency contract to manage the transformation of the DoD's global data network.
IS&amp;GS also achieved another milestone with its recognition as the top IT service provider to the federal government for the 18th consecutive year.
Let me just now turn to some of our key operational achievements in the quarter.
Electronic Systems delivered the second Littoral Combat Ship to Fort Worth.
Our team successfully completed acceptance trials and delivered the ship to the U.S.
Navy in June 2 months ahead of schedule and under cost.
Our LCS team achieved another important milestone when the Navy's Board of Inspection and Survey completed their review of our first ship the USS Freedom and declared the ship fit for duty.
I just returned from Singapore and there was much excitement and anticipation for the USS Freedom arriving next year where it will perform a key role in our new U.S.
Defense strategy.
Electronic Systems also continued to expand critical capabilities in the growing area of Missile Defense with intercepted targets by 2 of our systems.
Our Aegis ballistic Missile Defense system successfully intercepted a target missile using the upgraded Aegis system for the first time.
Additionally our PAC-3 missile successfully intercepted and destroyed a cruise missile target demonstrating the unique ability of the system to detect track and destroy at extended range.
Missile defense is a growing market internationally and we are well positioned with our broad portfolio of Aegis Patriot MEADS and THAAD along with the related command and control and battle management systems.
In our Space Systems business the second advanced VHF military communications satellites for the U.S.
Air Force has launched and we delivered 2 commercial Satellites in the quarter.
Let me wrap up with the F-35 status.
Overall the program continues to gain momentum in developmental flight testing production activities and international interest.
Flight test on the development program are progressing at a solid pace.
Year-to-date through June test flights are significantly ahead of plan by 150 flights or 34% and test points are also ahead of plan by over 900 points or 24%.
Software development is another area of progress on the program.
As we've mentioned on previous calls software development is a critically important element of the F-35 program.
We discussed some scheduled pressures during our last call and I'm pleased to report that we are seeing improvements to the schedule.
As a further sell-in to software maturity and deployment we began flying the Block 2 A software on the first STOVL aircraft in June.
This Block is now flying on CTOL and STOVL aircraft.
Production activities are continuing to progress.
In our second quarter we delivered 3 production aircraft.
Since then we've delivered 7 additional aircraft bringing year-to-date production deliveries to 12.
Included in this total is the first international aircraft delivered to the United Kingdom.
In the area of new production contracts we were pleased with the award of $490 million for long lead on LRIP 7 this quarter.
This authorization enables procurement activities to begin for 35 aircraft and add stability to the supplier base and production line.
Internationally the F-35 program continued to receive strong support.
This quarter Norway announced their initial order for 2 aircraft which is expected to be followed by up to 50 additional aircraft.
After the close of the quarter Japan reaffirmed their intentions to purchase the F-35 and signed a letter of offer and acceptance to order 4 initial aircraft.
Additionally international new business opportunities continue to emerge on the F-35.
This past quarter we submitted a proposal to supply 60 aircraft to South Korea.
The announcement of the winning aircraft is scheduled to occur before the end of the year.
Overall the program is demonstrating increasing maturity and tempo and the global F-35 team looks forward to providing this critical asset to our nation and allies.
With current aircraft deployment of 19 operational aircraft to Eglin Air Force Base including the U.K.
aircraft plus 8 test aircraft at Patuxent Naval Air Station 6 more test aircraft at Edwards Air Force Base and just over 70 aircraft in production flow the F-35 program is making good progress.
With that I'll turn it over to Bruce to discuss our financials.
Thanks Chris and good morning everyone.
As I highlight our key financial accomplishments please follow along the web charts that we included with our earnings release today.
Let's begin with Chart 3 in an overview of the second quarter.
We grew sales for the company by 3% versus the second quarter of 2011.
I'll describe the drivers behind that growth on the next chart.
Our segment operating profit margins improved by 60 basis points to 12.3% and I'll also provide more color on that improvement in a couple of charts.
Earnings per share from continuing operations increased by 10% driven by the higher sales volume and margin improvement.
We generated $845 million in cash from operations while contributing more than $600 million into our pension plans.
This amount completes the $1.1 billion in required contributions for the year.
And as you saw in our earnings release we've increased our outlook for operating profit earnings per share and cash from operations.
On Chart 4 we'll look at sales by the 4 business areas.
As in the first quarter sales were slightly ahead of our expectations with 3 of our 4 business areas growing.
Aeronautics grew 1% in the quarter led by additional quantities of F-16 deliveries.
This growth was dampened by the labor strike in Fort Worth particularly on the F-35 program.
Electronic Systems had 2% growth in the quarter driven by our Mission Systems &amp; Sensors business unit which had higher volume for our Persistent Threat Detection System or PTDS along with higher activity on our LCS and MH-60 programs.
Space Systems had significant growth in the quarter driven by the delivery of 2 commercial Satellites versus none in the second quarter last year.
We also had higher volume on the Orion program compared with last year.
And finally IS&amp;GS declined by 4% driven mostly by a reduction in sales for the AMF JTRS program.
As with the first quarter IS&amp;GS's sales reduction was less than we had expected with continuing growth in our Intelligence line of business particularly in federal cyber activity helping to lessen the decline.
Chart 5 shows the segment margin levels for each of the 4 business areas.
The primary reason for the overall margin increase to 12.3% was due to improvements in our Aeronautics and Electronic Systems business areas.
I'd like to discuss these in a little more detail.
Within Aeronautics there were several factors that resulted in a 13.3% margin in the quarter that warrants additional discussion.
First we reduced our profit booking rate for the F-35 SDD contract from just over 4% to just under 4% which yielded an inception-to-date $85 million reduction in profit in the quarter.
While we had previously assumed a deck-oriented amount for the remaining fee would be earned this adjustment reduces that amount even more.
We made this adjustment as there's currently no plan in place for the government for how over $500 million of remaining fee can be earned and we are nearing the point where the amount of profit recorded would exceed the amount of fees received to date on the contract.
In addition we've been disappointed recently with the amount of fee available to be earned for developmental milestones and the government's evaluations of our performance against those milestones compared with our own assessment.
Importantly because of where we are from percent complete basis on the development contract the vast majority of the profit adjustment affects the current year.
The lower rate has little incremental impact on future margins and earnings for Aeronautics.
This SDD adjustment was substantially offset by contractual resolutions on other firms such as the F-22 leaving outstanding performance on our C-130 program particularly on international contracts as the principal reason for the improved margin performance in the quarter.
And as Chris mentioned we're pleased with our progress on the F-35 program as a whole.
Looking at the margin for Electronic Systems the story is similar to Aeronautics.
Improved performance on a number of programs drove the higher margin as contractual resolutions offset proper rate reductions on a few programs and severance cost for workforce reductions at MS2.
Within IS&amp;GS the higher margin results from a slight improvement in our Intelligence line of business across a number of contracts and the reduction in the margin in Space Systems primarily reflects lower equity earnings due to timing in the quarter.
Higher earnings associated with risk retirements on the Orion program helped to partially offset the lower equity earnings.
Turning to Chart 6 and earnings per share in the quarter EPS from continuing operations grew 10% over the amount reported last year and adjusting our reported EPS for the effects of the FAS/CAS adjustment increases our earnings per share to $2.77 per share.
If you'll turn to Chart 7 you can see our operating cash flow performance in the quarter compared with last year.
Adjusting for the higher pension contributions we made this year compared with last our pre-pension cash flow was more than $1.4 billion.
And after considering the strong performance during the first half of the year and our expectations for the rest of the year we increased our guidance for operating cash flow by $100 million to greater than or equal to $3.9 billion for the year.
On Chart 8 we'll discuss our updated guidance.
We're maintaining our sales outlook although we are updating 2 of the business areas within this guidance level as we'll discuss shortly.
We increased segment operating profit by $125 million.
We also increased our earnings per share as I'll detail in the next chart and again we increased our cash from operations by $100 million.
Chart 9 shows our EPS outlook reconciliation.
The segment operating profit increase added $0.25 to our outlook.
Several items partially offset that increase making the net increase to our annual EPS $0.20 resulting in a new range of $7.90 to $8.10 per share.
Chart 10 shows our sales outlook where we lowered Aeronautics by $200 million for the year primarily reflecting the effects of the strike.
About half of the reduction is for lower F-35 volume and the other half is an expected slip of 3 F-16 aircraft out of 2012 into 2013.
Offsetting this reduction is a $200 million increase in Space Systems reflecting their strong performance year-to-date.
Chart 11 shows our new segment operating profit guidance.
Again the total increase is $125 million with Aeronautics and Electronic Systems both increasing $50 million for the year whilst Space Systems increased $25 million.
And finally we wrap up with our summary on Chart 12.
We've had an excellent first half of the year which reflects the strength of our portfolio and the affordability actions we've taken.
Looking ahead to the third quarter we expect sales will be about $1 billion lower than 2011 results primarily due to decreases in Aeronautics and Space Systems.
We expect segment operating margins to be comparable to last year's and cash from operations to exceed $1 billion.
With that we're ready for your questions.
Karen? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Heidi Wood from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Bob actually a tactical near-term question and a second strategic question for you if you don't mind.
The Antideficiency Act precludes the government from spending more than Congress authorizes and many contracts are incrementally funded which means 1 should start affecting 3 and 4Q results.
To what extent does the 2012 guidance reflect this and can you help us understand your key assumptions? Will you pay employees out of profits and assume retroactive authorization or does your guidance presume stoppage of many of your large contracts? And can you touch on which large contracts are most at risk under warrant? That's a comprehensive question Heidi.
I think the details of your question highlight many of the specific details that have gone into our requests for additional guidance because there is considerable uncertainty in understanding exactly how sequestration would be implemented and how for example unobligated balances might be affected how those unobligated balances might be applied contract line item by contract line item.
Whether or not military personnel accounts will be excluded or included in the total amount to be sequestered because that has a fairly significant impact on the percentage reductions.
So I think your question's front-running a little bit of the detail we have.
I'm sure that our government customers are thinking about their responsibilities under the Antideficiency provisions I think they understand that pretty well.
And I think the final part of your question was which contracts particularly the significant ones might be most affected.
And here again I think the devil lies a little bit in the details of understanding exactly how the across-the-board reductions perhaps net of funds flowing from unobligated balances versus new obligational authority subject to sequestration will impact our individual contracts.
So of course we have significant portfolio areas.
Chris mentioned Missile Defense Chris mentioned the tactical aircraft portfolio our airlift capability our Space Systems programs.
We think some of our classified activity likely will all be subject to sequester and which programs will absorb what percent of the cost reduction is not yet clear to us.
Heidi I'll jump in on one comment.
As Bob said in his opening remarks we have contemplated or we are contemplating a continuing resolution in the fourth quarter of this year and I'll say that affects our business areas differently depending on sort of where they are in the life cycle.
The one is -- the most impacted is IS&amp;GS typically because it's the shorter cycle business that we have.
So I would say we're probably a little cautious perhaps in the guidance that we're giving considering the fact that we do believe that continuing resolution is likely going to happen in that fourth quarter.
And our next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Bruce I was just wondering if we could talk a little bit about cash and maybe start off with some comments around FAS/CAS and harmonization of that system.
I know that starting back in February you were able to begin raising your rates and including FAS/CAS harmonization going forward.
I'm just wondering how that process is going and whether the outlook that you've talked about in the past and the impact that FAS/CAS will have on you going forward what that kind of looks like.
And then just on the cash topic the use this quarter on the share repurchase somewhat has you pacing below the $1 billion that you've talked about targeting for repurchases.
Can you just give us an update on that as well? Yes sure Jason.
So as far as sort of a current status of how FAS/CAS is going and is it tracking to what we talked about in the past I would say yes it is.
That law I think was signed February 27 of this year.
We've already negotiated across the corporation a number of what we call our forward pricing right agreements that have the effects of CAS harmonization included in them.
So I'll say that is sort of a business as usual at this point right now.
You've seen -- as we've all seen the effects of lower interest rate through the first half of this year they're definitely lower probably than where we were at the end of last year.
Of course we don't set those rates until the end of this year but if we were to set them today they'd be lower than where we were last year.
Our asset returns I think are doing actually fairly comparable to what our expectations were.
The one thing I think that's changed Jason that's important to consider not necessarily this year but in future years is the transportation -- or excuse me the highway bill that was passed recently which had a consideration for reducing some of the funding required by ERISA.
And that has the effect of lowering the requirements for our ERISA contributions beginning next year.
The modeling of that's a little complicated.
I won't get into it but basically think of a band of around the sort of a 25-year average of interest rates.
And if you're outside that if your current interest rate or discount rate is outside of that band and you used the 25-year average we're definitely outside of that band as we go into 2013 and so we'll use that 25-year average which is a much higher rate than what we're currently experiencing.
That has the effect of -- I think I tried to tee up on the call in the first quarter that we've had ERISA required contributions of more than $2 billion going into next year compared to $1.1 billion this year.
That change in the funding consideration change including the highway transportation bill would lower the required contribution to about the level comparable to what we're seeing this year.
So somewhere in the 1.1-ish range or maybe a little flexibility there because we haven't quite seen the final rates come out of that yet so there may be a little bit of play but not much I would guess.
And so this is as we get bigger hits sort of from negative events due to the size of our pension plan we also get bigger benefits when there are positive events as well.
I'll remind you also that the pension reduced pension brings with it a reduced tax deduction as well.
So you shouldn't think of the $1 billion as being a pure cash because there will be less tax deduction associated with that $1 billion less.
You also asked about share repurchases and we are a little bit light to the first half of the year.
We've made no change in our commitment to the $1 billion outlook and I won't expect to make a change between now and at the year end then.
Our next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Bob you seem to have taken a sort of leadership role for the industry in your comments that you've made publicly about sequestration.
I'm wondering what sorts of conversations you've been having with Congress about potential possible outcomes and time lines? And I'm wondering if you can sense any sort of incremental change in language or posture recently that you -- that's detectable or have we made no progress over the last quarter? Well thanks for the question Carter.
I know that many in the industry are experiencing exactly what we are right now Carter and that I think is best characterized by a huge amount of uncertainty for a long-cycle business like ours to be unable to see 6 months into the future for a pretty dramatic reduction of resources available to our customers a significant and for us unprecedented.
Throughout industry I think that reaction is similar.
I will say the awareness about the more detailed aspects of sequestration I believe is growing and has grown.
And it's important to remember the sequestration is not just a reduction in discretionary defense accounts.
It's also a reduction in non-defense discretionary accounts which affect lots of civil government agencies.
So I believe we're hearing more detailed descriptions from agency heads and leaders in the government about the potential adverse impacts in their ability to meet their mission responsibilities or fulfill their commitments under sequestration.
For our part we are trying to model internally but to be very candid with you that model is filled much more with our assumptions about what might happen than any detail specifically given to us about what will happen.
The facts are sequestration is the law.
It goes into effect January 2.
It requires $55 billion in each of defense and nondiscretionary -- nondefense discretionary accounts.
Beyond that we're still struggling with exactly how this will impact our business.
We are very concerned about the supply chain particularly small disadvantaged minority-owned businesses.
That's what we regard as the edge of that supply chain.
I know we're having discussions here about what kind of business we'll have if we are compelled to implement sequestration.
I think they're asking if they'll even have a business will they have an enterprise.
So I think there are significant shocks to the industrial base and very honestly we simply try to describe them to our best professional capacity not to incite any particular level of over concern but we are very very concerned about the across-the-board nature with an automatic trigger and that's what we've tried to voice.
Our next question comes from the line of Rich Safran from Buckingham Research.
Just a question on book to bill.
So it was about 0.9x a bit less than the 1x but still an improvement versus first quarter.
I just want to gauge the confidence in finishing the year with book to bill of about 1x maybe highlight some of the contracts you're expecting to book in the second half.
Now also did I hear say that you thought South Korea would be booked by year end and is that one of the things that's giving you the confidence? Rich it's Bruce I'll take that one.
Your assessment of where we are in the second quarter relative to orders is correct.
And I'll say probably what's not as apparent in just the absolute numbers reported is we are actually ahead of where we thought we'd be at the second quarter this time.
I tried to tee up on the first call that we thought the second quarter would be down a little lower than normal.
The results might lead you to believe that that's the case but that's actually a little better than we expected it to be.
We also mentioned that we thought the third quarter would be a higher rebound than we historically have in years past and we still think that'll be the case.
You asked about some of the -- what are the contracts we're looking for.
Most of them frankly are in the category of what I'll call follow-on contracts or contracts to be left with the new fiscal year.
So yes the ones I'm watching to close between now in the second and the end of this year are the F-35 our 5 contract getting additional funding in the form of undefinitized contractual action or other means on the LRIP 6 contract.
We'd like to close the THAAD the combined buy of THAAD missiles from the U.S.
government as well as the UAE.
And we've got a whole slew of new fiscal year contracts that usually pop up in the fourth quarter.
Think of that as the fleet ballistic missile and the PAC-3 contracts that'll play there.
I think was there a second part of the question there? Rich this is Chris.
I mentioned South Korea is a competition for the F-35.
We were told the down select would be at the end of the year but the actual contract would be in the latter part of 2013 at the earliest.
So that would not be in our orders of backlog in 2012.
And Rich I don't think I answered kind of the last part of your question which was what's the confidence level we have for sort of ending the year at a 1.0.
I still think as we sit here today even with all the caveats that we did relative to sequestration and so forth we've got a fairly good chance of achieving the same level of backlog at the end of this year as we started the beginning of this year.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to dive a little bit into the -- some of the details on the F-35 contract profit accrual rates.
And so Bruce you gave a good description of what's going on with SDD.
I just want to confirm that essentially what you're assuming now is that your future fees will be about 4% of future revenues because you're pretty much at a crossover point right now where that's sure looking backward.
And then more importantly over on the LRIP side which contracts drove the $20 million risk retirement? And where do we stand on specifically on LRIP 5? Thanks Joe for the question.
I think you had assessed pretty right.
The changes that we talked about I think it's important to note and obviously you understand that very clearly.
This is only affecting the development contract.
The production firms aren't impacted by that.
The production programs typically don't have much if any award fee.
They're typically kind of cost performance driven and so that's also different than the rate or the change that we've talked about for the F-35 SDD contract.
I made a comment that we were booking higher than 4% to a little bit higher than 4% going into this quarter.
We came out a little lower than 4% and that's the adjustment that does bring our booked profit down if you will below the amount of earned fee that we have at this point in time.
The 2 programs on the production side where we had some performance improvements or booking rate increases this quarter were both Lot 3 and Lot 5.
And I think as we progress throughout the year I think I made the comment either last quarter or the quarter before about the number of deliveries and Chris highlighted that as well in his prepared remarks and we're going to finalize deliveries of all the LRIP 2 aircraft all the LRIP 3 and a pretty good portion of LRIP 4 aircraft this year.
So typically as with most production programs that will give you that the -- give us excuse me the opportunity to assess our performance on that and see if it's coming in line with our expectations and enables additional risk retirements.
I think there was one other part of your question there Joe.
I've lost track of what it is to be honest with you so I'll go on to the next caller.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to get your thoughts on cost reduction.
It's something that you've emphasized quite a bit over the last 6 to 9 months.
Can you talk about what you're doing in that area whether it's overhead reduction supply chain facilities? And are there certain targets you have and certain progress against those? In other words is there any way to quantify the kinds of actions you're taking? Yes Doug this is Chris.
Thanks for the question.
We've been focused on the affordability for the last several years and it really is all encompassing.
Let me start with the employees and the leadership team.
If you go back a little over 1 year ago we had our Voluntary Executive Separation Program where 26% of the leadership team was reduced and that was over 600 people.
Of course there's the flow down impact of that.
We're looking at the layers we're looking at the span of control as it relates to the personnel and the organizational structure.
And we're continuing to look at how best to organize.
And you'll recall a couple of years ago we exited the Eagan Minnesota facility we consolidated Owego onto MS2 all those things are on the table.
We've focused quite a bit on facilities and our actual footprint.
We've taken out over 1.5 million square feet of our facilities both owned and leased.
We have another 2.9 million to go that we've identified and obviously if there were further cuts to the budget there could be significantly more reductions.
And the supply chain you mentioned clearly that's an area that we focused both internally with category management as we call it consolidating our suppliers and holding them accountable for the quality and timely delivery.
So I see some of these as being shorter term some midterm and then of course we're always looking out on the long term.
And you know back in '06 we placed our defined benefit pension plan with defined contribution pension plan.
And that will I think position us well for the long term.
So that's just kind of an overview of what we're doing.
I think when I last looked you can easily calculate several billion dollars of reduction that we benefited from and that we passed on to our customers as a result of these actions.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Arment from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Question I guess either Bob or Chris really want to focus on Information Systems and -- or IS&amp;GS.
Just regarding we've seen the most erosion there in terms of the backlog and I get it regarding being impacted by the CR.
But I guess following up on Doug's question in terms of your ability to reduce costs and preserve margins there you've done a nice job at net 9% but we're still seeing that's the only segment that's not growing.
Can you give us a little more color on that? We're hearing about a lot of predatory practices amongst your peers in terms of bidding contracts pretty aggressively about preserving those margins.
Yes Peter it's Chris.
Thanks for the question.
I guess we were very satisfied with our margins in IS&amp;GS this quarter and we seem to have been able to maintain at or around 9%.
Relative to top line growth you're right.
We are experiencing some decline there.
It's not unexpected for the reasons that Bob and Bruce mentioned and you suggested in your question.
We will continue to bid what we think are appropriate business cases for our business.
And I must say we've been very successful on winning some significant opportunities of late.
And the protesting is continuing probably more so than the predatory bidding practices.
So I think we have 3 major wins currently under review that we had previously win.
So our strategy is to win all the business we can at the appropriate returns.
We'll let the 100-day protest cycle run out and then we will move forward.
So I have very high confidence in our ability to execute on these programs.
We're hitting all of our milestones.
But as I look forward to additional growth opportunity we're really focused on Cyber Security and I mentioned that we won the -- what was referred to as the DC3 contract.
That was the largest Department of Defense cyber contract awarded to date.
We have numerous engagements with Fortune 100 corporations and we're also continuing to look in health care IT and the energy lines of business as additional growth areas.
So I think we have a good strategy.
We're executing on it and I'm optimistic that we'll find a way to grow over the long haul.
Our next question comes from the line of David Strauss from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess this is probably a question for Bruce.
You obviously benefited from a significant amount of positive contract adjustments in the quarter.
Could you talk about what the guidance for the year assumes for positive adjustments and which business areas have the biggest opportunity for positive adjustments moving forward? Thanks David.
I think I said at the start I lose track which quarter I made these comments on but I think I said in the first quarter that we were looking at 2012 to have maybe comparable levels of performance improvements as what we saw in 2011.
And we actually saw a pretty big increase in those performance improvements mostly coming in Electronic Systems in the first quarter.
In the second quarter we had some good performance both particularly in Aeronautics and Electronic Systems also Space Systems on the Orion program as well as the contractual resolutions that we mentioned that also caused us to come in higher than what we've started at the beginning of the year or expected at the beginning of the year.
Our expectations for the second half of the year are probably to be down a little bit compared to the second half of 2011.
But again as we get into the quarter and we actually do our assessments of where we stand on program performance that's when we would have unexpected both performance improvements as well as potential reductions in profits rates.
But from a planning perspective as we sit here today we expect it to be a little lighter in the second half of the year compared to 2011 and by definition lighter in the second half this year compared to the first half of this year.
And our next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bruce just a quick follow-up on the pension.
I think previously you said you expected the FAS/CAS charge next year to be roughly half what you're booking this year.
Has that situation changed given the moving metrics of contributions interest rates and the new legislation on ERISA contributions? Yes.
We're probably about 6 months before I'd like to have this conversation Rob but definitely as I said earlier interest rates are down.
If I was to put a number on it they're probably down about 75 basis points on a year-to-date basis.
Your guess is probably better than mine at this point as to what they will have or what they will do between now and the end of the year.
You're right on the quantification I've given in the past all that assumes as I'd like to call it sort of current course and speed with the same level of discount rate as we ended last year and an 8% return on assets.
Again as I mentioned in the earlier remarks I think our asset returns are actually holding pretty steady to that level.
But the discount rate if we were to pick it today would be lower than what it was the end of the year.
That would have the tendency to increase FAS which would make a smaller drop.
I still believe it would be a drop at this point from the FAS/CAS adjustment from 2012 to '13.
There'd be a lesser drop.
Our next question comes from the line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Bruce if I take a look at the guidance you have for the second half of the year you're assuming maybe flattish revenues with the first half and a 10.9% or so margin.
I guess that's consistent with David's question about what's embedded in the second half of the year for ECAs.
But my question is if you go back to last year and your prior years it's highly unusual for the second half to have a much lower margin than the first half and yes that's what's being projected.
So is there something else that's in there besides the comment about assuming no incremental ECAs? George let me try to address a couple of things I think embedded in your question.
One is just the second half versus the first half in general and then I'll hit on the margins especially.
Yes I've taken a look at where we sit today and what our expectations are relative to the guidance we provided for the second half versus where we sit today.
There's a couple of things that happened in the first half of the year that won't repeat from a revenue side in the second half of the year.
The first of those is again we had 2 commercial Satellites in the first half of the year and we're expecting no commercial Satellites in the second half.
Think of that as probably a little less than $300 million or so that won't be repeated.
Within Electronic Systems all 29 of the Persistent Threat Detection Systems or PTDS systems that were under contract actually delivered in the first half.
So that contract is essentially finished there will be no PTDS deliveries in the second half.
Think of that also as in the $300 million range.
So there's sort of $600 million of pressure going from the first half to the second half of the year.
We also have in the second half probably 9 to 10 fewer F-16 deliveries second half of the year again versus first half.
But that's probably offset in large part maybe even more so because we expect to have 4 to 5 more C-5 deliveries in the second half than the one we've had in the first half.
So those kind of pushed probably.
I think as I look at say the year it's easier to understand if you sort of do a sequential quarter-to-quarter it's easier to understand that.
So we did roughly $23 billion of revenue in the first half.
And I think if you just went to the midpoint in the guidance it's 45 5.
So you can say if you just double the 23 we're pretty close to the 45 5 but for those 2 items I mentioned previously.
I think the issue is that the comparison with the second half for 2011 is a tough comparison.
Both the third and fourth quarter of last year were much higher than the first and second quarter of last year.
And just for example we did $22 billion roughly in the sales in the first half.
We did $24.5 billion roughly in the second half.
So obviously we tremendously outperformed the second half relative to the first half whereas 2012 as I said before is going to be a little lighter in the second half.
I also said we might be a little bit conservative as we sit here today with the expected continuing resolution in the fourth quarter and the prospects of a sequestration on January 2 but we'll see if that actually changes and we'll update accordingly.
Relative to the margins George you said we don't have a tendency to have a lower second half than the first half and I'll tell you that's -- we'll still try to make that come true.
But we've had again just taking a look at the increased profit rate adjustments as well as the contractual resolutions that we had happen in the first half of the year our expectations as we sit here today is that those won't replicate at the same level for the same reason I told David in the second half.
And that's what will drive margins.
Again maybe a little bit conservative on the top side it would drive some EBIT but I don't know if the margins will change all that much from the second half of the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit just about something around the cash flow which was around the continuing resolution last year? You certainly moved to build cash levels and seeing the buyback activity weakened I guess the first piece is are you doing that now? And second piece is does that have any implications for how we should be thinking about the dividend decision that the board typically takes in September where the last few years we've certainly seen an acceleration from 10% growth to 20% to 30%? How should we be thinking about the appetite for an increase this year going into potentially sequestration and continuing resolution? Thanks Sam this is Bruce.
I'll try that and Chris or Bob can pile on if they want to.
I think as far as cash balances are concerned we probably are going into the second half of the year with a little higher cash balance than we might otherwise have expected.
And I think we're trying to be mindful of what could happen under both the continuing resolution as well as the potential CR.
And again our position is we don't want to induce behaviors that would cause program performance issues cost growth if we can avoid those perhaps with some balance sheet help.
And so we're mindful of that.
And again I think we want to have the flexibility in order to accommodate that.
We don't see as I said earlier I don't see us backing off the $1 billion share repurchase.
That's still our plan and goal for the year.
Even though we were a little bit lighter in the second quarter I still think we're going to achieve that $1 billion number.
You asked about the dividends in September.
We revisit that every year with our Board of Directors.
We've had some preliminary conversations with them but that's a decision that we'll make in consultation with our board members and I'd be premature to have that discussion with you right now.
And our next question comes from the line of Rob Spingarn from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Bruce on ES you talked about some of the things that benefited the first half but that looks like the segment that does retract the most in the second half.
Is it -- are you being a little conservative there? And then the other thing I was going to ask is really where I think Joe was going before is just the latest on LRIP 5.
I knew I missed that one I'll catch that one on this one Rob and I apologize for Joe.
I realized after I went to the next speaker that I missed that one.
So ES second half again the ES Electronic Systems is where we have the PTDS.
Again we've got about a $300 million headwind because all those units delivered as I've said earlier in the first half.
I'd like to think Rob that we have a chance to do a little better there.
That's yet to play out and we'll watch that closely.
I'll say I've been pleasantly surprised by the performance of Electronic Systems in both the first quarter and the second quarter.
Electronic Systems historically and going into the future years always has had our highest international content.
I think that there's some still substantial international awards this year that could help us with the sales growth in the second half of the year.
But those as usual are a little harder to predict at this point in time.
So are we conservative? I hope so Rob and we'll see as that plays out in the second half of the year.
LRIP 5 negotiations again I apologize Joe.
We're continuing the process.
It is a long process.
We've been at it now for at least 1.5 years.
So I'll say I think we're making slow and steady progress.
I think both sides have a desire to get this closed and to get this closed in the not-too-distant future and we're clearly on that page that we'd like to do as well.
I think we will close in a manner that's beneficial to both parties in the not-too-distant future.
I'll just add on on the international front and whether these orders get closed this year or 2013.
I personally just got back from a 2-week trip in Marilyn Hewson and all our execs have been increasing their international travel to the Far East and the Mid East.
And there is definitely a concern relative to threat environment and I believe our portfolio and the interest they have in our fighter aircraft whether it's the F-35 or the F-16 the C-130 everybody loves and of course our Missile Defense and command and control systems there is a big appetite out there based on the portfolio that we have.
And I believe we have the experience and the know-how and the relationships to do business internationally and to grow.
And when they hit the books is to be determined but I can assure you there's a lot of interest and it's a focus of ours going forward.
And our next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Bruce could you quantify how big were the cume CAS estimate changes in total in the second quarter and kind of what are you looking for for the full year? And then the notional question that you've been at this 30% more or less level for so long is that sustainable in 2013 and '14 in this current environment? Yes.
So Cai I think and I'll stick with what we have in the release which says we had about $160 million $170 million in improvement in our profit rate adjustments this quarter compared to the second quarter of last year and again several performance improvements that I elaborated on already across all 4 business areas but maybe just to reiterate C-130 international programs we had as you might expect because of the end of the PTDS contract we recognized some performance improvements on that.
We also had nice performance on our vertical launch system.
On Electronic Systems we had as I mentioned earlier performance improvement because of a risk retirement for a developmental milestone associated with the Orion crew exploration vehicle.
And then on top of that we had again I'll say an unusually high level of contractual resolutions that resolved this quarter.
And so that's the one that is making the numbers probably a little higher than last years second quarter.
As far as sustainability you mentioned the 30%.
I still think that we're able to maintain that level.
If you look back at our history Cai we've done that every year.
And I look at it again from sort of what is in our planning going forward in terms of planned risk retirements planned profit rate increases and I'll say they approach that level today.
And where we differ from that level is when we have unplanned beneficial improvements above what we already had considered or when it goes the other way and we have a negative or a decremented proper rate adjustment.
Thankfully this year we've had few of those.
Those were offset again primarily by the contractual resolutions and were less with the overall performance improvements.
So I still see that trend is what was going to happen the latter half of this year and going into 2013 and for that matter beyond as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> You commented in the release that it would take up the contributions into the second half.
Bruce can you talk about what that's going to look like sequentially into the second half? And also is that a headwind into 2013? And then to squeeze another one in the pullback in rates the disconnect now that exists between CAS and ERISA and FAS do you think mark-to-market approach on pension expense is making more sense given all the changes that have happened over the last 6 months? Thanks Cai.
You got both ends of the spectrum with your question there.
I'd like to try to address -- I'm sorry did I say -- it's Myles I'm sorry.
Excuse me Myles.
Sorry about that.
So yes I didn't try to write some comments in my prepared remarks about the ULA and USA relative to the equity earnings that we're expecting.
We had a little over -- equity earnings in the second quarter as I said mostly because of timing issues.
And it was actually a nice performance improvement out of our ULA operation last quarter that wasn't replicated this quarter which made that comparison year-over-year a little more difficult.
But this quarter had just lower earnings based on the launch vehicles and the like in the second quarter.
We do expect a fairly significantly higher second half of the year relative to equity earnings.
Most of that coming in the third quarter.
You didn't mention USA but we're also expecting sort of with the closeout of the United Space Alliance activity to have an additional improvement relative to that equity earnings higher than we've experienced in the first half of this year.
So both of those are going to cause I'll say a little spike in the third quarter and then will come back down in the fourth quarter but again collectively higher in the second half than the first half.
You asked about going forward and I'll say we lose that spike relative to the USA going into 2013 and beyond.
But what we're seeing within the Space Systems Cai and I've said this on a couple of occasions is we're getting finished with a number of developmental parts of programs such as the MUOS contract the SBIRS contract and some others.
And we're getting into sort of the sweet spot of production vehicles for all those and we're doing very well on those.
And that performance on the production coming out of the development as you can expect the margin improvements associated with that are helping to mitigate the downward pressure resulting from the lower equity earnings next year such that I don't expect a large change in the margins to occur because of that lower equity amount.
CAS and ERISA and a lot of moving pieces as you described there in mark-to-market yes we've looked at that multiple times.
And I'm not sure -- this is why I think I keep preaching that you've got to look through the accounting and get to the economics of it.
And frankly Id personally favor sort of we all got on the same page there but I don't know that I see a change on the horizon for us to get to mark-to-market as a company.
Karen this is Jerry.
I think we'll come up on the hour.
Maybe one more question in queue.
Our final question for today comes from the line of Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sort of related to what you've talked about in Space and then in one other thing.
In Space you made some management reorganizations if you could address what that does also in terms of taking out cost? And then can you reconcile -- Bob you alluded to it that you've had some great performance metrics on the F-35 and yet you're not getting I guess compensated for it.
Okay Howard it's Chris.
Let me take the Space question.
As I mentioned in an earlier answer we are constantly looking at our organizational structure and looking how best to streamline and consolidate and get synergies both from a revenue and a cost side.
What we basically did there was flatten the organization.
And I think we went from about 7 or 8 lines of business directly reporting in to our EVP to 4 or 5.
The goal there was to reduce the overhead and the infrastructure to support the businesses.
And we also appointed a deputy Rick Ambrose a longtime executive with the corporation to help Joanne as we focus on the strategy and the execution.
So the overall goal there was better alignment with the customer and cost savings.
And I guess I'll turn it over to Bob here for the F-35 and the wrap-up.
Yes.
Thanks Chris and Howard thanks for the question.
So relative to the F-35 and our earning potential we all recognize and you all recognize this is a complex demanding program really a one-of-a-kind type program that's unfolding in an increasingly tough environment.
So we're held to very high standards and we expect to be held to high standards.
We look back at the 18 -- last 18 months performance and found it to be good.
We're ahead of our planning.
I think we're beating our March there's much more to go.
So we're very realistic about the overall performance.
Bruce's comments about the system design and development phase I think reflect the reality that we're looking at.
But increasingly our earnings potential will be defined by our ability to produce and deliver the production aircraft lot over lot.
And we're very focused on achieving that goal because that's what's going to give our customers the forestructure and the capacity that they need and they expect from us.
And so all of us are very focused on the entire F-35 program.
We've tried to give the best balanced assessment and accounting of how we expect to earn profit.
I will tell you we do expect to earn profit.
We think when we deliver high-quality products that is an appropriate economic response so that we can share in the value of that performance with the investors in the company.
So for all of us we thank you for your time on the call today.
We appreciate the questions; thought they were challenging and good and really insightful about our business.
I'll tell you we're all very pleased that the company's remained strong and focused in a really challenging environment.
We think that's great credit to the women and men who work here.
They exhibit great dedication on a daily basis and we're grateful to them.
We have a really strong portfolio.
Chris mentioned his international travel along with our other executives where we believe we're well-aligned with both global and domestic defense and security priorities.
Our backlog our cash resources the financial strength of our company provide we think a degree of certainty in an uncertain environment as we look to deliver increasing value to shareholders and to customers and we'll stay very focused on high levels of discipline.
And as Bruce said we'll update you as soon as we possibly can as to these changes in our environment and what they might mean to us.
So Karen thank you for your help on the call today.
Thank you all for participating and we'll sign off here.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Good day and welcome everyone to the Lockheed Martin Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Ally and good afternoon everyone.
I'd like to welcome you to our third quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Bob Stevens our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Chris Kubasik our Vice Chairman President and Chief Operating Officer; and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Statements made in today's call that are not historical fact are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see today's press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Jerry and good afternoon everyone.
Thanks for joining the call today.
We know most of you are having a really busy day and we appreciate you being with us.
I want to begin with a brief summary of the third quarter which I see as a continuation of the strong momentum and focus on execution we've been achieving throughout this year.
In the third quarter segment operating margin increased to 12.1% a solid improvement over the prior year level of 11.2%.
Cash generation was strong at $1.6 billion and earnings per share from continuing operations expanded by 11%.
Our financial strength enabled a 15% increase in our quarterly dividend to $1.15 a share or $4.60 annually.
This is the 10th consecutive year that we've raised the dividend by a double-digit percentage increase.
We continue to implement our cash deployment strategy and returned over $600 million to shareholders in the quarter through dividend payments and share repurchases.
Strong year-to-date performance and execution also enabled us to increase our 2012 full year outlook for sales operating profit earnings per share and cash from operations.
These results reflect the strength of our corporation and the focus we all have on delivering value to customers and shareholders.
Thanks to everyone in the company for their many contributions in driving these strong results.
Turning to the external environment and budget status.
Congress passed the continuing resolution to fund government fiscal year 2013 activities for 6 months through March 27 2013.
Under this continuing resolution our key programs continue to be supported and funded at levels consistent with prior fiscal year appropriations.
Beyond the continuing resolution that's in place the possibility of sequestration continues to be of great concern to us.
As currently written this law that requires approximately $55 billion in reductions to defense accounts and a like amount to non-defense discretionary accounts will take effect on January 2.
We have petitioned Congress and the administration to stop sequestration and replace it with a more constructive process a position we continue to support.
In parallel we've also been asking the government for additional planning information so we can responsibly and properly prepare to act.
On September 28 the Department of Defense provided additional planning guidance indicating that no contract actions associated with sequestration would occur on January 2 the date sequestration is to be effective and that no contract action would likely occur for several months beyond January 2.
On that same day the Office of Management and Budget assured that any of our employees who would potentially be affected by a reduction in force necessitated by sequestration would be eligible for full coverage under the provisions of the WARN Act and that our company would be able to recover associated costs.
With this new information we adjusted the timing of our actions as it would have been improper for us to issue WARN notices in October or November when the timing of any potential sequestration-related events would likely not occur for at least 6 months or more.
Some reporting about our decision to move the timing of the release of WARN notices has been inaccurate concluding that we either no longer intend to issue WARN notices if a sequestration-driven reduction in force is necessary or that employees potentially affected by reduction in force would not have the full coverage of the WARN Act or that our actions may have been taken to achieve some political objectives.
These conclusions are not only inaccurate they are absolutely wrong.
The additional planning guidance we received from the Department of Defense on September 28 moved the likely timing of sequestration-related actions by the government by about 3 months into 2013 and we adjusted our schedule accordingly.
So let me be very clear.
We will issue WARN notices at the appropriate time if sequestration actions meet the required conditions in full compliance with the law as we always have.
We will work to assure that our employees are treated fully and fairly under the law receiving protection under the WARN Act which for us has been and remains a high and nonnegotiable priority.
And our sole interest and motivation throughout all the discussions about sequestration has been to understand the complex issues arising from this unprecedented circumstance to be fully compliant with law and regulation and to take actions in the best interest of our company and our employees.
We have done so and we will continue to work to stop sequestration.
So while I can't precisely forecast the impacts of sequestration or events that will unfold in a dynamic global security environment there is one thing I know for certain.
Every one of our 120 000 employees stands ready to take on whatever challenges will emerge.
We worked hard over many years to build a culture based on ethics and integrity and high performance.
We have a strategy that is tuned to the complex global security environment we face.
We have extraordinary talent and dedicated employees who have fashioned an all-weather portfolio of global solutions for global customers and we continue on our drive to reduce costs and meet affordability goals.
We'll be happy to talk to you about these subjects and any other you may wish but first let's turn to Chris for an outline of our operational highlights.
Chris? Thanks Bob.
As you noted from an operating perspective we had a very strong quarter and maintained our positive momentum in an uncertain and challenging environment.
We also continue to implement strategic actions to increase our customer alignment and drive affordability throughout the enterprise.
We recently announced the de-layering and reorganization of our Electronic Systems business resulting in 2 new business areas effective December 31.
The businesses are Missiles and Fire Control which focuses mainly on the mission of the Army and Special Operations Forces; and Mission Systems and Training which supports the Navy and the Missile Defense Agency.
This new structure will streamline management reduce cost by $50 million a year and better position us to grow integrated services and support for our products.
I'm also proud of our continuous efforts to improve affordability and I would like to highlight 3 areas: First we're leveraging engineering processes in advanced technology; second we've improved supply chain integration; and finally we've reduced our overhead cost.
One of the best opportunities to drive affordability is in the design and technology insertion phase where we make decisions in concert with our customers about how mission success will be achieved.
We've developed Engineering for Affordability principles that center around rapid transparent and collaborative decision-making to achieve mission success with the most affordable designs.
Advanced technology is foundational to this approach.
Application of advanced manufacturing processes and materials allows us to perform more rapid prototyping reduce component costs speed up the development process and shorten design cycles.
We are training our engineering work force to bring cost to the forefront in all of our development programs.
The supply chain is another focus area.
About 50% of our program content is provided by our suppliers and teammates.
As systems become increasingly complex tight integration of this network of companies is key to maintaining affordability.
To respond to this complexity we have launched a focused effort to meet with our top suppliers and subcontractors to assure plans are in place to continuously improve their program execution affordability and quality.
We also have instituted corporate-wide agreements which have generated more than $300 million in annual savings.
Reducing overhead cost is another element of our approach to affordability.
Our significant successes in this area include reduction of $1.2 billion in annual cost over the past 2 years while remaining on target for an additional $1.1 billion this year.
We've reduced 1.5 million square feet of facilities over the past 2 years and have additional planned reductions of 2.9 million square feet for 2012 through 2014.
With the future uncertain we will continue with our initiatives remain agile and take further actions should sequestration occur.
Turning to the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program.
Overall the program continues to progress in development flight testing solving technical challenges increasing production deliveries and expanding international activities.
Total flight test on the program have now been ahead of plan for the last 21 months.
Year-to-date through September test flights are ahead of plan by 181 flights or 25% and test points are also ahead of plan by over 1 100 points or 17%.
We currently have 15 aircraft executing this plan.
With our IAM partners back to work production activities also continue to expand as we delivered 12 aircraft in the third quarter up significantly from second quarter deliveries of 3 aircraft.
This brings year-to-date production deliveries to 17 aircraft illustrating the program's maturity and progress.
Internationally the F-35 is maintaining strong partner support.
This quarter we delivered the first international aircraft to the United Kingdom with the acceptance of their initial STOVL aircraft.
And Italy became the eighth international customer to formally fund procurement for aircraft.
We continue to receive significant interest and inquiries from other international countries as they evaluate the F-35 for their next-generation fighter requirements.
We recognize that the key to the long-term success of the F-35 program is delivering fifth-generation capability while driving down the cost of the aircraft as quickly as possible and it is happening.
Our later cost curve for assembling aircraft is improving faster than any previous fighter program dating back over 40 years.
As volume increases we believe this has us positioned to achieve the unit recurring flyaway cost objective of $67 million in FY '12 dollars by 2018.
We are achieving these results by implementing various cost-cutting programs such as streamlining aircraft assembly reducing time between building jets and improving material flow.
At Fort Worth earlier this week I saw firsthand the improved aircraft processing flow and upgraded tooling that is helping to drive down the cost below the government's baseline estimates.
In summary the program is demonstrating increasing maturity tempo and affordability and the JSF team looks forward to providing this critical asset to our nation and our allies.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bruce to review our financial performance.
Thanks Chris and good afternoon everyone.
As I highlight our key financial accomplishments please follow along with the web charts that we included with our earnings release today.
Let's begin with Chart 3 and an overview of the third quarter.
Sales for the quarter were $11.9 billion similar to what we generated in the second quarter this year.
Our segment operating profit margin was strong at 12.1% and I'll discuss that in more detail in a couple of charts.
Earnings per share grew 11% to $2.21.
Our cash from operations was a robust $1.6 billion and we increased our quarterly dividend by 15% to $1.15 per share while also increasing our outlook for sales earnings EPS and operating cash for the full year.
Lastly in our release today we provided preliminary 2013 financial trends and pension information and I'll discuss those in a little more detail in later charts as well.
On Chart 4 we'll look at sales by the 4 business areas.
Aeronautic sales were 7% lower than in the third quarter of last year driven primarily by lower C-130 deliveries and F-22 production volume.
Electronic Systems sales grew 4% in the quarter as all 3 lines of business had growth over the same period last year.
As expected IS&amp;GS had lower sales than last year but the decline was only 1% as we experienced continued growth in our Intelligence line of business driven by federal cyber activities.
Space Systems sales were 5% lower than the same period last year as we had one commercial satellite delivery last year and none this quarter.
So overall a 2% decline in sales driven by lower aircraft quantities in the quarter and the timing of satellite deliveries.
On a year-to-date basis on Chart 5 you can see that 3 of the 4 business areas have experienced growth over the 2011 period with total sales up 2%.
This strong performance led to the increase in our full year sales outlook.
On Chart 6 we'll discuss our segment operating profit margins for the quarter.
The primary reason for the 90 basis point margin increase to 12.1% was due to improvements in Electronic Systems and Space Systems.
In Electronic Systems the margin improved by 110 basis points to 13.3%.
The improvement came from Missiles and Fire Control primarily in air and missile defense programs and MS2 from our ship and aviation systems programs.
The increased margin for Space Systems was primarily due to higher equity earnings from the United Launch Alliance and wind down activities associated with the United Space Alliance.
The margins for Aeronautics and IS&amp;GS were relatively comparable to last year.
Turning to Chart 7 and our earnings per share in the quarter.
EPS from continuing operations grew 11% over the amount reported last year driven mostly by the higher margins in the quarter.
And adjusting our reported EPS for the effects of the FAS/CAS adjustment increases our EPS to $2.60 per share.
If you'll turn to Chart 8 you can see our operating cash flow performance in the quarter compared with last year.
Operating cash was just under $1.6 billion this quarter compared to $551 million last year.
But last year included nearly $1 billion in pension contributions.
And considering the strong performance so far this year we again increased our guidance for operating cash flow by $100 million to greater than or equal to $4 billion for the year.
On Chart 9 we'll discuss the dividend increase in the quarter our 10th consecutive year of double-digit increases.
You can see the dramatic increase in dividend levels and yield over the past 5 years with the current yield in 2012 more than twice what it was in 2008.
And the increase brings our annualized dividend yield to just about 5% based on recent prices.
On Chart 10 we'll discuss our updated guidance.
Due to the year-to-date sales performance we increased our sales outlook by $500 million.
We increased segment operating profit by $175 million.
We also increased earnings per share by $0.30 as I'll detail on the next chart.
And again we increased our cash from operations by $100 million.
Chart 11 shows our earnings per share outlook reconciliation.
You can see that the segment margin -- segment operating profit increase was the primary reason for adding $0.30 to our guidance reflecting the increased earnings outlook by each of the 4 business areas.
Chart 12 shows our increased sales guidance with all 4 business areas increasing guidance for the year resulting in the $500 million increase in total.
Space Systems has the largest increase $250 million reflecting strong government satellite activity.
And Electronic Systems increased by $150 million with growth coming from both MS2 and Missiles and Fire Control.
Chart 13 shows our new segment operating profit guidance.
Here again all 4 business areas are increasing their outlook for the year with the largest increases also coming from Electronic Systems and Space Systems and the total increase for the year equaling $175 million.
On Chart 14 we'll discuss the preliminary trends we see for 2013.
First our trend data does not assume the impacts of sequestration as there are still many unknowns remaining as to how sequestration would be implemented if enacted.
With that caveat we expect a low single-digit decline in our total sales volume.
Aeronautics and Electronic Systems are expected to be roughly comparable with 2012 levels.
Space is expected to be down slightly due to the absence of any commercial satellite deliveries in 2013.
And for IS&amp;GS we are expecting to decline in the mid single-digit range resulting primarily from the continued downturn in federal IT budgets.
IS&amp;GS also is expected to have the greatest impact from the continuing resolution due to the short-cycle nature of the business.
We expect our segment operating margin will remain above 11% next year the seventh consecutive year that our margin will exceed 11%.
And with an assumed 75 basis point reduction in the discount rate at year end down to 4% and an 8% return on assets this year our FAS/CAS pension adjustment is expected to be $700 million about $135 million lower than the 2012 level.
Finally we expect the level of pension contributions next year to be comparable to this year's level although I'll remind you that we'll be considering potential discretionary contributions between now and year end consistent with our historical practice.
And finally we wrap up with our summary on Chart 15.
The third quarter built upon the strong performance we've demonstrated this year and our increased outlook reflects our expectation that 2012 will be a very solid year.
We continue to return value to shareholders with our industry-leading dividend yield and we'll be providing detailed guidance on the January call reflecting our new business area alignments.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Chris for final thoughts before we open up for questions.
Chris? Well thanks Bruce.
I just wanted to take a quick minute and remind everyone that this is Bob's last earning call as he steps down as CEO later this year and therefore he won't be joining us on future calls.
Despite knowing his aversion to personal praise and accolades I want to thank him for his service and stewardship of our corporation.
Bob's leadership and passion have been embedded in the DNA of our corporation.
His focus on mentoring and training the next-generation leaders has created the deepest bench strength in the industry and will serve the corporation for decades to come.
On a personal note I've had the privilege of working with Bob for over a decade in my various roles and I've seen his passion for the mission and his drive for excellence demonstrated on a daily basis.
I know many of you on the call have also had the pleasure and opportunity to interact with Bob over the years.
So Bob I'd like to speak for all of us and thank you for your contributions and wish you the best.
With that I'll open up the lines for questions Ally and we stand by to answer.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Doug Harned of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> First Bob it's hard to believe it's your last earnings call and just wanted to say it's been great working with you over the years.
I mean you've always provided some great insights regarding both the company and the industry and so I wish you all the best going forward.
But I'd like to get one more insight from you on a favorite topic here which is the F-35.
If you look back over your last several years could you describe how the F-35 program has changed in 2 ways? First how has Lockheed Martin's relationship with the customer evolved since negotiations always appear to be pretty tense and neither of you has much of an alternative to the other? And then second how has Lockheed Martin's approach to performance change along with that of the program office so you can avoid some of the pitfalls that we saw farther back in the past related to cost and quality and schedule? So perhaps you could give us a sense of those 2 things.
Sure I'll do my best Doug.
Thanks for the kind comments.
Let me start with the evolution of the program and customer relations.
I actually think that with respect to expectations we've been very very close with all our customers and I would extend that to members of the Congress.
I think everybody understands that we have an aging tactical fighter fleet that we need to recapitalize that fleet that we need fifth-generation capabilities.
And in the most ideal circumstance we would not do this alone but we would do this with friends and allies so that we would have both burden sharing on the cost and flexibility and interoperability on the mission capability side of that platform and the F-35 does all those things.
Since I was here at the beginning or the inception of the F-35 program I know full well that no one really underestimated the challenge or the complexity of bringing online a fifth-generation airplane with 3 variants that would have the performance characteristics that are embedded in the F-35.
And I would tell you in my best professional judgment having done this for a long time while there are areas of challenges that we continue to work on there are other areas where we've done very well.
And I think if you scale the size of this program recall that many people talk about it being the biggest program or the most expensive program but it is designed to replace more than 10 other kinds of airplanes.
So that if you have an overrun of a percentage it's a big overrun because it's a big complex program.
Anytime we don't meet a performance commitment we feel there's been a shortfall on our part and we redouble our efforts to accomplish those goals.
But I think the program has had the highest level of visibility the most number of detailed reviews and absolutely the greatest level of transparency where you all on the call know the technical details of this program as it's unfolding almost at the same time the engineers responsible for the performance of the system know it.
And I think there's some very good features of that and I think there's some really lousy features of that because people come to the wrong conclusion because they haven't done this before as to what is a likely outcome about resolving a technical issue.
So we know that it's not easy but this program is succeeding.
And I'll ask Chris to comment in a moment because it's worth the time to comment.
He spent time in Fort Worth with the new Chief of Staff of the Air Force who's deeply involved in this program.
Chris will give you his own assessment.
You mentioned customer relations.
It's a challenging program but I personally believe the customer wants what we want and we will do everything that we must do to have very high quality relations and get everything about this program right because the stakes for the country and for our friends and allies are just too damn high to set the bar anywhere else.
With regard to our performance we've always been realistic.
We have superb subject matter expertise here.
I would put our high-speed combat tactical fighter airplane program credentials against any other company on this planet and I believe there are those who would kill to have the capabilities we have in not only our company but remember the extensive supply chain that we built for the F-35 around the world.
So it's a complicated program but it is improving in its dimensions.
We're happy to pick ourselves up and move ourselves forward.
When we're doing well we'll tell you.
When we're not doing well we'll redouble our efforts to get this right.
Chris you have some insight.
You've been in Fort Worth just this week.
Yes thanks Bob.
Doug a couple things I may want to point out is we actually have 94 aircraft in production flow between Fort Worth Marietta and the Italian facility.
So we have LRIP 3 aircraft all the way up through and including our first LRIP 7 airplane.
So I'm not sure everyone appreciates the quantity and the speed at which these aircraft are in fact being produced.
And as I look ahead to next year we will actually deliver more F-35s in 2013 than the F-16 and the C-130J combined.
So the volume is picking up.
The production is going well and the customer has been very satisfied in the deliveries that we've made.
And as many of you may know even later this year the Marine Corps is preparing for its first operational base for the F-35 at the Marine Corps Air Station in Yuma.
So there's some outside perspective to give you the volume and the progress that we're making.
I guess specifically you asked about the relationship and General Bogdan was in Fort Worth recently last week if I recall had very productive meetings with the team.
We're very excited about him taking over and we're looking forward to working with him.
And we're both committed to 100% strong -- 100% commitment to a strong and collaborative relationship.
As Bob said I was recently this week down with General Welsh.
He's very engaged.
He was checking on the status of his aircraft and both these gentlemen are very demanding.
They hold us to the highest standards possible and we actually prefer that.
So we're looking forward to a great 2013 on F-35 and much more after that.
Our next question comes from Heidi Wood of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Yes Bob a couple of years ago you laid out a vision for making Lockheed a global security company.
And in a way one can see the proposed move with EADS and BAE as some attempts to -- for others to catch up on that.
Can you expand a little bit on what you see going forward in terms of pressing on on that vision? Do you think that you would be looking -- that the company would be looking for international acquisitions or pieces of that to sort of build more of a global perspective? Yes thanks for the question Heidi.
When we talked years ago about a global security company we were not necessarily focusing on international acquisitions as much as expanding international opportunities by building the core portfolio of the business that would address the emerging or evolving needs.
Of course at the time we were talking about cyber security.
When I think others weren't talking about cyber security we were talking about moving more into services business and support and logistics for the core that we have.
I will tell you I'm really quite pleased with the portfolio that we have and how well that portfolio is maturing.
Now I will certainly say in the same breath that which was embedded in Doug's question we want to do a better job on the F-35.
We know there are areas where we need to improve and I think we're a company that realistically looks at that.
But I'm very pleased with the portfolio.
So as we look at the evolution of global security now we take into account the evolution of world economic conditions that I think generally we would describe as showing signs of stress and the stress may be different depending upon what region of the world we look at.
But generally we've concluded there'll be fewer resources available to our customers wherever those customers may be relative to meeting what is essentially a growing set of demands in the global security environment which tells us as we evolve this portfolio into international opportunities we must continue to drive on affordability and cost reduction.
And I think we're doing that effectively and we have not stopped the continuous pursuit of refining that model.
I think we've done a very good job of exploiting partnerships internationally rather than making the international acquisitions as the only avenue to extend the range of our company we've sought out very high-quality partners who bring immediate value-added credentials to enhance our offerings.
And I think you should look for more of that from us.
But you should also think of us relative to acquisitions in terms of extending the string-of-pearls approach of very selective very high-quality very easy to integrate very specific and purposeful additions to the business.
So I do expect more from Chris and the leadership team on extending the global security reach of the company.
Yes Heidi.
I'll just -- it's Chris.
I'll give you a little more insight.
Here in the third quarter 25% of our orders were actually from international customers.
And as you know we're -- currently about 17% of our revenue is derived from foreign military sales and direct commercial sales.
I see it halfway to about 20% and I think that's based on the strength of the portfolio as Bob said.
And when you look at Missile Defense with PAC-3 and THAAD the precision-guided weapons and of course the aircraft I'd be disappointed if we're not at that 20% goal in the next couple of years.
Our next question comes from Bill Loomis at Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on IS&amp;G [ph] on the outlook.
You talked about a lower mid single-digit decline next year yet you've won some pretty substantial contracts the DISA/GSM-O and DoD/DC3 are just 2 of them.
What's going away as some of these bigger wins you've had are ramping up over the next year? Yes Bill this is Bruce.
I'll take that one on.
I think -- when I think about IS&amp;GS going to next year there's really sort of 2 pressures that we see occurring kind of simultaneously.
One is as you're well aware of there is a 6-month continuing resolution at least for the first 6 months of the fiscal year.
I'll remind you that IS&amp;GS is the shorter cycle business of our -- of all of our business areas and therefore it converts the most sales from the current fiscal year of any of our business areas.
So that continuing resolution period caused us to have some pause from some increases that might otherwise have happened had that not been in place.
And the second element that's causing some pressure in '13 is simply the overall federal IT budget.
And if you take a look at where the federal IT budget is planned for 2013 and beyond it has some significant reductions from the previous year's level and being that we're the largest provider of IT services for 18 straight years it's hard to overcome that sort of budget reduction when you're as big a player in that marketplace as we are.
So those are really the 2 biggest drivers going into next year.
And I wouldn't want to split it up and say which one's the bigger contributor.
But I'd say that probably if I was it would be the overall IT budget reductions.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First off Bob great working with you over a very long period of time and best wishes to you.
I have a more mundane question just on the change in Electronic Systems and the restructuring there or the realignment there.
Just on the surface it doesn't seem like breaking one segment into 2 would save money.
And obviously that's what you guys are in the business are doing these days.
So maybe if you could help elaborate on why that saves money.
And if it's just a matter of taking a layer out why wasn't it done previously? Just finally on the same point does this -- can we read anything into this in terms of potential portfolio moves next year? Joe this is Chris.
I'll take an attempt at that.
The way we eliminate cost in this is that we've eliminated a layer between the businesses and then ultimately the executive office.
If you go back in history maybe a decade ago or so we had probably 12 individual entities maybe all in the $0.5 billion to $1 billion range in the Electronic Systems business area oversaw and managed that broad portfolio.
Over time we've consolidated and combined each of those entities most recently with the Owego being combined into our MS2 business.
Prior to that I think the Eagan facility as well.
So when we looked at the current alignment we had about 4 businesses reporting in and we thought they'd gotten to the scale and the size that we could consolidate them.
Each of these will themselves eliminate some cost and we're looking at probably close to 200 of our employees will be laid off as part of this process here in the coming months.
And I think it was the right thing to do and it was the right time to do it.
Research Division</strong> In terms of portfolio moves anything we can read into it Chris? No no.
It was just too -- like I said to eliminate the cost get closer to the customer and better align our training and services business with the underlying core product.
So that's all there was to it.
Our next question comes from Michael Lewis from Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> My question is how do you see the book to bill ending out Q4? And I think the more important question is have you noted any momentum from the POs on getting awards out the door quicker following the year end and now moving into the next fiscal year? Yes Michael this is Bruce.
I'll take that one on.
Book to bill wise let me just -- maybe just address it with sort of a backlog perspective.
I think we're at $75.6 billion or something like that through the end of the third quarter.
That's basically tracking where we thought we'd be at this time.
We're actually probably a little bit ahead of where we thought we'd be otherwise.
I've said on previous calls and I'll say on this one I still think we will end the year fairly close to where we began the year at close to $80 billion of backlog.
And the orders that need to happen in the fourth quarter there's very few of them that are I'll say competitive orders.
Most of them are sort of just fiscal year orders that happen every year.
And they're not the sort of orders that are subject to the sequestration limits because they're not necessarily large orders that are increasing over the prior fiscal year's last year same time frame.
The one big item that we're watching is in order to get to that level that I talked about again close to where we started the year and from a backlog perspective we need to close on the F-35 LRIP 5 contract and get the additional fundings from an undefinitized [ph] contractual action for Lot 6 on that.
We stand here today thinking that can be done in the fourth quarter and that's the basis of the planning that we have for the end of the year for that backlog number.
As far as your second question some acceleration I think we saw some of that throughout the year.
That's again one of the reasons are why I think we were ahead of where we thought we might otherwise be at the end of the third quarter.
And I think people that -- I can't remember Chris or whoever said it earlier but some comments about unfunded obligations and trying to get funds put on contract as we head into a sequestration environment.
I think we saw some customer actions doing that.
It's hard to put a figure on that if you will but I think we did see some or experience some that earlier this year as well.
Our next question comes from Jason Gursky of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Bob best of luck with the next chapter.
A quick question just as a bit of a follow on kind of taking the last questioner's topic one step further and talk about '13 as it relates to the opportunity set.
Assuming that sequester there's some sort of resolution there what are the things that are going to drive backlog and book to bill next year? And given the pipeline and the visibility that you have is it possible for us to continue to maintain a book to bill around 1? So Jason this is Chris.
Let me give you a couple of the larger opportunities and orders that we're looking at.
We have F-16 in Iraq.
We have a multiyear potential for the C-130J with the U.S.
government.
We have the next tranche of C-5 aircraft.
And while it probably wouldn't be an order but there is a decision for the F-35 in South Korea.
I think that might actually hit the books when we're successful in 2014 but the decision should be announced later this year in 2013.
So we see those opportunities in Aeronautics in the Space business.
Of course Orion we're looking at 2 more Cerberus satellites and there's actually a couple commercial satellites internationally that we're in current discussions with.
So I see opportunities there as well.
The former Electronic Systems a couple more Littoral Combat Ships as I mentioned in my upfront comments missile defense between Egypt and PAC-3 and THAAD we see lots of opportunities not only here but around the globe.
And then within IS&amp;GS there's several opportunities including a couple international specifically in Australia and working with the Missile Defense Agency here.
So it's a pretty broad portfolio.
Some of these are competitive.
Some are follow-on but we're pretty optimistic about the 2013 opportunities to grow this enterprise.
Yes and Jason you asked the question could we kind of hold -- I think if I understood your question right could we kind of hold to the level of backlog that we end this year.
Now we still think we'll end the year 2013 assuming the orders that Chris just described come through at about again for another year have about the $80 billion level as well.
Our next question comes from Rob Stallard of Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> First of all best of luck for the future Bob.
It's been quite a ride.
Thank you.
LLC Research Division</strong> The question I have is regarding the dividend.
You highlighted that you've raised dividend again quite recently another double-digit increase.
You're now paying it over 50% of earnings over 50% of free cash flow.
How much longer can these double-digit increases continue until they start to get a little bit unsustainable? Yes Rob.
I'll take that one on.
We -- I think we've been very pleased with the dividend increases and what we think this brought in terms of I'll say at least from my perspective a little bit of price stability and I think a little bit of price floor to the stock price since we've increased the dividend here recently to the levels that we have now.
Several years back under Bob and Chris' leadership we committed to providing 50% or more of free cash flow in the form of either dividends or share repurchases.
I'm pleased to say with the increases we've given in dividends we now do that strictly by the dividends that we do provide.
If we just stop there with dividends you're already at the 50% of free cash flow.
As I look this year and next year I mean the first thing that I tend to do when I look at the dividend and payouts and the like is I do adjust for the FAS/CAS.
So if I was to do that this year for instance I think we'd add back $1.60 or so for the FAS/CAS impact to our numbers and therefore the earnings per share gets close to a $10 per share number.
So when you kind of get on the cash-on-cash basis the dividends are less than 50% as I would view it today.
And I think going forward the question is how much cash do we need to invest in the company to support the growth rate of the company.
We're generating far more cash today than we need to support the growth rate particularly when that growth rate starts to slow going forward.
And so going forward I still believe we will be generating more cash than we need to support the growth of the company and we will have the opportunity when CAS Harmonization kicks in in particular the next 2 years to recover a lot of the discretionary and not just discretionary but that's a big piece of it pension payments that we've paid in the last few years.
And that will have the effect of increasing cash over what you might ordinarily think as sort of an average run rate.
I'll remind you that we have some $4 billion of advanced funding in our pension plan that is yet to be recovered under our government contracts.
So as CAS Harmonization plays out over the next few years that will be added to sort of this the average run rate if you will of cash generation.
And I think that's where the opportunity to continue with dividends and other cash deployment actions not just dividends will come from.
Our next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes and Bob let me join the other folks in congratulating you on a job extraordinarily well done.
Thanks Cai.
LLC Research Division</strong> So pension $700 million walk us through some of the assumptions I guess you talked a little bit about the discount rate that's like where is your return what are you assuming for return on assets and where are you year-to-date? What should we look for CAS to do next year? What should we look for your contributions to be next year? Cai I'll take that one also.
So pensions were -- we changed our long-term rate I'd say the start of this year I guess end of last year to 8% per year.
We're tracking very nicely to that as we sit here today.
I think the overall global markets are above that and we're tracking I'll say nicely with what a little less than 2 months to go on the year but I feel good about what our returns are for this year.
Next year's numbers were also premised -- well I'll back up.
Next year's numbers were premised on us achieving 8% this year.
So that's the starting point.
And as far as the CAS cost next year by itself I'm trying to recall that but I think the CAS cost itself goes up to like 1 point -- think of it $1.4-ish billion or so.
Think of a FAS number if we stop today somewhere around $2.1 billion and that's how you get to the $700 million FAS/CAS adjustment.
And the contributions that we're expecting to make next year are essentially the same as this year you should think as $1.1-ish billion range.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Chris I wanted to go back to something you had said earlier in the call.
You talked about $1.2 billion of overhead reduction in the last few years and on the docket for another $1.1 billion this year.
I guess I'm trying to just understand how much does it cost for you to actually accomplish that? What kind of returns do you get and then how much of that do you actually get to keep as opposed to it ultimately going back to the customer? Yes Sam.
That's a great question.
It varies by business area.
This is pretty much the overhead reduction.
A lot of this ties to some of the facility.
I gave you some numbers on the facility square footage that were taken out.
We do a business case and a payback for all these affordability projects that we have.
And generally they pay back within the 12- to 18-month cycle.
So when we do something like facility consolidation we'll be moving the cost of moving the cost of consolidating as it relates to that.
Right now we're about 50% cost plus 50% fixed price.
So half goes in back to the government if you will.
The other half generally is built into our forward pricing to some degree.
It really depends on the backlog mix.
But the investment to get these overhead savings are not that significant and generally results in both people and capital assets as the main driver.
Of course we're focused on processes and new systems and such but it's a pretty quick payback.
And Sam I'll -- let me add to that.
The conversation that we have internally here has placed a greater emphasis on this general subject of affordability and cost reduction because with or without sequestration we know that we're facing a long cycle where the demands of our security customers are going to go up relative to their missions and they're not going to have the economic resources available to meet those growing demands.
And we've got to get out in front of this.
So we're pushing ourselves and Chris is absolutely right and embedded in your question is the notion.
You certainly want to pick the highest payoff opportunities and do them the soonest and we are.
But I'm not and we've not been reluctant to look at all sorts of cost-reduction opportunities even if they have a longer payback as long as they payback because it's going to be a longer cycle process that we're involved with where it's going to take continuous refinement continuous refocusing.
And one of the benefits that we think we achieved from some of these reorganizations is not necessarily measured in the economic return but in our ability to have greater levels of agility and more refined resource allocation.
So we can move with the increasing rate of the volatility in our markets.
One of the characteristics we've seen out on the marketing horizon is this shorter cycle much more highly volatile environment where change is occurring more quickly and you have to be able to respond to that change.
And so there's sort of this proportionality between the size and structure of the organization and the ability to move quick at the edge.
And we're getting better at moving quick to the edge and with that we can take cost out of the business.
Sam you might get a triple out of this one because I'll speak to this one also and I think I'm going to go back to something Chris said in his opening remarks.
I think we're all good -- we've all demonstrated we've all done this throughout our careers of taking the kind of actions to reduce facilities' headcount when it's required.
And I don't think that's necessarily all that newsworthy or all that new and innovative.
What Chris mentioned in his opening remarks that I'm talking about taking into account affordability into the design of products and sort of getting that upfront view of affordability that's something I'm actually very excited about.
And I think we've really just sort of scratched the surface on that.
And as we see the chance to bid and win new products with that concept in mind I think you will see some really interesting characteristics coming out of that because we are changing the nature of maybe how we've done that in years past in a manner and in a process that I think is going to pay off significantly to both ourselves and our customer.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Bob let me join everyone in congratulating you on all your successes.
I think Chris he's left you with a pretty high bar for stock price performance and I think as a shareholder he'll hold you to it.
So best of luck on that.
Thank you.
He's up to it Carter.
He's up to it.
Research Division</strong> I want to expand on the last question if you will.
Obviously your peers are sort of chasing down the cost curve as well to remain competitive and I wondered if you might tell us how it is that you benchmark yourself against the peer group to see how well of a job you're actually doing and getting cost out.
I mean obviously there's a lot of overhead that's going to need to come out of the industrial base given the budget forecast that we're looking at even out without sequestration.
And so I wondered if you might share with us how it is that you benchmark yourself and then give us kind of an assessment of where you are relative to your peers and your efforts so far.
Yes I'll be very blunt about this.
We started to take cost out before our peers and we had no reservation about being the first mover here as there are an extraordinary number of metrics that we can benchmark ourselves to.
We think one of the most meaningful ones is examining our win rate when we get our feedback from our customer.
How many competitions are we losing because we were not cost competitive because that brings at home more clearly than anything else.
I think what will give us the competitive advantage as we move forward with a competitive group that is also attempting to remove cost is we've made significant new investments in new products where others have older product lines that will require new investments.
For example we have the Littoral Combat Ship.
We have the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter which is a fifth-generation capability.
We've refreshed Aegis to an open architecture.
We evolved PAC-3 and we're evolving the THAAD missile system.
These are all new and fresh technologies.
We have a similar portfolio in Space Systems.
The vitality and the vibrancy and the recent investment in these new next-generation systems I think has a lot more legs in a competitive climate particularly in a climate where we'll be taking cost out.
So our goal here is to focus on the benchmarks in the industry.
We're entirely comfortable of front running the industry when we have confidence in knowing what we have to do and how we have to do it and we have that confidence.
We think we have a relevant portfolio that's proven.
And as we drive higher levels of affordability we think we'll pass that metric of cost competitiveness in competitive awards as we look forward.
Yes Carter and I'm glad you asked the follow-up question because we do spend a lot of time talking about affordability.
And the point I was trying to get across is it's more than the cost cutting.
We talked about the supply chain and Bruce reemphasized the importance of the engineering and design.
We can go on all day but another very very important element is the volume.
And the executive leadership team spends a fair amount of their time traveling the globe building relationships meeting with customers because we all know whatever product it is if we can get some of our allies and friends around the globe to also purchase airplanes or missiles not only does the U.S.
government benefit but they benefit as well just from a financial perspective.
There's obviously a strategic operational and other benefits of a coalition warfare.
But that's another leg of the affordability and we spend a lot of time trying to grow this business.
And that's one of the benefits that all of our customers realize.
Ally this is Jerry.
Just to be sure I've got a note here that there's 7 people in the queue.
We have some ability to go longer today so we'd like to catch the people that are still in the queue.
So we're going to extend the call if that's all right.
So let's do the next caller.
Our next question comes from Rich Safran of Buckingham Research.
Bob once again best wishes.
I wanted to just ask about if I might about build rates at Aeronautics C-130J C-5 and F-16.
I think you're delivering 34 C-130Js this year 37 F-16s if I got my numbers right.
Just wanted to know if you could comment if you're anticipating similar run rates next year or could this moderate some? Also I know you're tracking a bunch of new orders and I just wanted to know if any of them you think might impact '13 deliveries.
Rich this is Bruce.
I'll take that one on.
Chris made an interesting observation relative to our expectations next year with the F-35 deliveries surpassing both C-130 line and the F-16 line.
I think that's kind of the new era that we're facing in the corporation an era where obviously the F-35 is going to become the dominant production line in the corporation.
And it started this quarter the third quarter with more deliveries for the F-35 in this quarter than any of the other 2 aircraft as well.
As we look into 2013 and I look at Aeronautics in general there's a lot of mix that's going on within Aeronautics.
In my prepared remarks I said that Aeronautics is going to be relatively comparable next year from a revenue perspective to where they are this year but there's a lot of moving pieces in that number.
So you're spot on with the aircraft quantities that you gave for 2012.
You should expect somewhere on the order of 20 to 25 fewer F16s next year than this year and that's predominantly because we're building in 2012 some 24 aircraft for the government of Turkey and they're actually being built off the Turkish line.
So while we hate to lose the aircraft I guess the good news of that discussion is that really the aircraft build rate at Fort Worth won't change from 2012 and 2013.
So there's an element of stability there that might not be apparent given the quantity changes.
We're also looking to lower the C-130 build rate.
You're right the numbers we should do 33 34 this year or so.
We're going to ramp back down to about a 24 per month -- or I wish it's a month 24 aircraft per year build rate on the C-130 beginning next year and we think that that level allows us to have again sort of a stable build line for a number of years going into the future.
And then offsetting those 2 reductions which may not be all that apparent I don't think you mentioned C-5 but we're going to deliver 3 or 4 of the C-5 in the RERP aircraft or Re-engining and Reliability Improvement Program for C-5s.
And those 3 or 4 will grow to probably close to 10 or so next year.
We're getting very close to the sort of the maximum rate on the C-5 program which I think it's about 11 aircraft per year to modify those 49 C-5 into the RERP configuration.
So between the lower F-16s the fewer C-130s higher C-5 and then the missing piece is higher F-35 volume next year Aeronautics is going to stay relatively comparable.
But again as I just indicated a lot of moving pieces in that discussion.
And Rich you asked us while we'll be working hard to get new orders over the next several months none of those would impact 2013 deliveries it would be beyond the calendar year.
Our next question comes from David Strauss of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I think this one's probably for Bruce.
In terms of your guidance for 2013 not exactly sure what above 11% means but in terms of the margins but if you could help us a little bit with the big pieces that would impact margin next year obviously a little bit lower volume.
I think USA is going away level of cume adjustments and whatever else you want to throw in there.
Yes I'm not sure I'm going to get at this point David any more specific than what we provided in the press release relative to the margins that we did say.
I do think we're going to be above 11%.
I think as I said in my remarks seventh consecutive year where we have been above 11%.
As we look at 2013 maybe what I ought to do is just kind of go around by the business areas and talk a little bit of that.
I spent a lot of time just talking to Aeronautics I think Aeronautics revenue I should say.
If I think of the earnings around the margin of Aeronautics because of all the mix changes that I just described I think we'll have slightly lower margins at Aeronautics primarily because of the mix changes that I just described.
We're losing some F-16s and losing some C-130s at higher margins and replacing that with C-5 and F-35 at lower margins.
I still think we'll be in the 11-ish percent range for Aeronautics.
So not a huge drop-off but probably not as high as this year.
If I go over to Electronic Systems I think Electronic Systems is probably the one business area I can look at and say even with the numbers I'm seeing now I'm hopeful at least that there will be some potential for some modest growth there above even what I'm thinking of for 2013.
And relative to the margins I think the margins will stay at the 13-plus percent range.
I'll qualify that though by saying that we're going to give you in January a new configuration with 2 new business areas.
So I'll say I'll hold that thought till January but I'll give you the data in the current configuration.
And I would say we're going to stay fairly close to where we are today from a margin perspective in all of Electronic Systems.
Space Systems is likely going to be down slightly primarily because we will have slightly lower equity earnings because of the USA closure.
For all intents and purpose that that joint venture is coming to a close this year.
Despite that I think with some of the production satellite programs that are now going through the production phase and are well out of the developmental phase we're seeing some higher margins on those contracts and I think that we'll probably see margins a little bit lower.
But I would guess in the mid-11 for Space Systems going next year they've had a benefit this year from a couple of the closeouts that we talked about the wind down of the USA that won't replicate next year.
And then I guess the last IS&amp;GS I would think it will follow very closely to where we are now somewhere in the 9-ish percent margin range.
I think I covered all 4 of them David probably more detail than you care to hear but I think that covers it.
Our next question comes from Robert Spingarn of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Bob again congratulations and best wishes.
Thanks Rob.
Research Division</strong> Two -- I'll try to make them quick.
One for Chris one for Bruce.
Bruce I'll just start with you.
On your color on '13 are you assuming full obligation of CR funds to spending authority limits or do you embed some kind of cushion for this half-paralyzed environment we've seen at times this year because unless we assume full resolution of sequester by early '13 I would think -- and formal adoption of the fiscal '13 president's request might we think of this as a best case scenario at least for revenues? Rob I thought about that quite a bit and I don't think so.
I don't think it's the best case scenario.
I mean obviously the worst case would be a sequester but is this a best case? I'm not sure of that.
We have very...
Research Division</strong> Negotiated outcome would be something between what I think your assumptions are and full sequester.
Rob let me -- so when we paid this they're -- now we're talking about some combinatorial -- some possibilities here.
But it is possible we'll have a CR through March 27 and it's possible that a CR will be extended.
There are also appropriation bills that have been marked and a fair amount of effort has been gone into let me say preparing those bills to move.
So it is possible the bill could move even without a resolution to sequester because part of these interesting combinations that make any detailed planning on our part impossible as to what the outcomes could be would be a movement of the appropriation bills and some deferral sequestration while a more thoughtful process to achieve what's called the larger or the big transaction the full scope resolution that includes tax policy entitlement reform and defense and nondefense discretionary spending.
That could occur too.
Thereby lifting the opportunity in 2013 with regard to appropriated levels of funding rather than CR levels of funding.
So there are interesting combinations here that could either put a little pressure on '13 or actually relieve some pressure on '13.
Sorry to interrupt you Bruce.
No I was -- Bob is talking in much more detail and thorough answer probably than I was going to do.
Rob the other thing I was going to say is I'll just remind you of our portfolio as you go around the 4 business areas really Aeronautics and Space Systems for a large intent and purposes don't have much impact to the CR because most of their sales are coming from fiscal year '13 budgets.
So very -- I'm not sure I used the word insulated but very little impact from there.
IS&amp;GS as I've said many times short-cycle business would be the most subject to CR.
But frankly we weren't expecting a whole lot of growth year-over-year fiscal year over fiscal year in that business to begin with.
And then Electronic Systems is somewhere in between.
I think you had a question for Chris that you didn't get to ask Rob.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Best wishes Bob.
A couple of follow-ups and clarifications.
You didn't mention when you're talking about bookings the larger Space contract that I think was a 2012 opportunity and I don't think you mentioned it within the realm of the '13 opportunities either.
Is that still on the table? And I guess Bruce it's not implied to get to $80 billion you need this to happen.
Rob I'll just say our government satellite -- or I'm sorry Myles.
That's 2 calls in a row.
I called you the wrong name Myles.
I'll just leave it and say that our government satellite business is very healthy strong and well supported.
The $80 billion achievement if we're able to get that this year I didn't mention that re-alliance [ph] on government satellites because I'm not concerned about that relative to our ability to achieve that number.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify.
So you don't need it to achieve the number? We do not.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other question was really more around the F-35 and the overall life cycle opportunity which has always been a key part of that program.
It sounds like the customer wants to not surprisingly insert some competition to maintain pricing discipline.
Has your view changed on Lockheed Martin's ability to capture that tail of the program and really make it into the bigger opportunity that's always been if you could capture that aftermarket strength? Well Myles we one know the program pretty well know the demands.
Nobody wants to lower the total cost of operation of this airplane more than we do along with our customers.
We see competition in every aspect of this business every day and we certainly not only don't fear the competition it actually makes us better.
I think our customers realize that.
So if there are competitive opportunities here that also lower the total cost of operation we are certainly going to pursue them and pursue them aggressively.
I think we have the insight that one would have from being the design agent and the prime contractor overseeing the supply chain.
I think we are as able as anybody to provide very high-quality very low-cost support service throughout the life cycle of this airplane.
So we'll look forward to these discussions.
Our next question comes from Peter Arment of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations Bob.
Chris a question regarding -- I guess when you were talking about the reorganization and taking cost out and I can appreciate stripping out some of the management.
But I'm surprised you're not seeing -- doing more I guess in IS&amp;GS given that that's where you're seeing the most delay awards or scope reductions and the customers have been focused on price.
Is there opportunity there to continue to take cost out or is it just not businesses that you want to break out for competitive reasons? Yes Peter.
We think we've been very aggressive in taking out cost.
I think back a couple of years I think we had over 145 000 employees.
We're currently at 120 000.
We don't announce but we're happy to talk about the layoffs.
There've been significant layoffs probably every quarter for the last 8 quarters.
We highlighted this because of the reorganization but we've streamlined over the years I recall when IS&amp;GS had about 11 different companies if you will or components we're now down to 3 civil and defense and Intel line of business.
We're very competitive.
Bob mentioned we look at our win rates on occasion when we lose competition.
I'm not aware of any competition in IS&amp;GS where we've lost as a result of cost.
So again we've done a fair amount.
We'll continue to look at it.
And of the $1.1 billion I'm sure a couple of hundred million of that is coming out of the IS&amp;GS.
I just didn't differentiate it or highlight it for you.
The last question comes from Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Congrats Bob on your last call.
Thanks Noah.
Research Division</strong> Since I'm last I'm going to try to sneak in 2 follow-ups to some of the other conversations you had.
So the first one is with regard to the potential strategies with which sequestration could be avoided Bob I wonder are there 1 or 2 kind of bigger things that are being discussed on the Hill that are floating to the top? And what are the high points of them if there are? And then secondarily and separately on the margin topic you mentioned in your remarks you've had 6 or 7 years in a row with the segment operating margin above 11%.
I basically wonder if you think you can repeat that.
You've talked about the cost reductions and productivity improvements.
On the other hand you have a generally tougher customer presumably these EAC adjustments wind down and become a headwind.
Is that 11% kind of a reasonable longer-term margin or does it need to come down? Yes I'll start with the discussion about strategies for sequestration.
Of course on the hill now there is no discussion because we're in the recess prior to the election.
To perhaps oversimplify this but maybe a little over simplification is good because it is really a complex set of scenarios right now.
Three things -- one of 3 things will likely happen.
We'll get a resolution or the grand bargain outcome which tends to have value ranges of $4 trillion to $5 trillion which is a significant amount of work that would go in looking at tax looking at entitlement looking at spending.
The onset of sequestration could be delayed beyond January 2 maybe to be coterminal with the CR in March or maybe beyond that or sequestration will take effect.
My sense is the latter 2 are a little bit more likely than the first one.
It would seem to be hard to get a grand bargain in a lame-duck session of the Congress.
So my guess is we'll either see a delay of the onset or sequestration will take place.
When you think about sequestration taking place we already received from the Department of Defense additional planning guidance that we received on September 28 that said they don't anticipate taking any contract actions on January 2.
And they thought it was unlikely that they would take contract actions for several months beyond that which puts us through our first fiscal quarter and puts the government into its second fiscal half before any impacts might be realized at least on the defense side.
Civil government agencies are going to be different and they don't have the large acquisition accounts and a lot of their expenses are associated with people.
So it's just not clear.
I know every one of us wants to be in a position of doing better at predicting what will happen with respect to sequestration.
But I can tell you I don't know and I don't know anybody who does know.
There's a lot of speculation but there's not greater clarity.
So inside our company we're preparing for the prospect of sequestration.
As I said we will issue WARN notices if that's required if sequestration has reductions in force.
We're working every day to try to avoid that.
In the interim we're asking our employees to stay very focused on the tasks at hand.
And I think you see in the third quarter and in the year-to-date performance an exceptional quality by the talent in this company and their professionalism and staying focused on the goal on the mission on execution and they are not being distracted by this.
And for that we are all so enormously proud of them for remaining focused like that.
So the best we can do is try to keep you posted on how sequestration unfolds.
Obviously the next event would be what happens in the lame-duck session of Congress.
Relative to margins I do think that it is possible to sustain these margins over the long run and we haven't given up on attempting to improve these margins.
It has a lot to do with your portfolio.
It has a lot to do with your business mix and it has a lot to do with how well you're able to execute.
And we make investments every day on building this portfolio to have real legs and real durability in a complex global security environment.
We do focus every day on execution and we're taking this business more broadly internationally and expect to have pretty robust opportunities to perform.
So I'll just add I think we are structurally different today and going forward than we were maybe a few years back that has helped our situation as well.
And Bob mentioned the international contact growing.
I think that's one thing that contributes to the ability to maintain the 11%.
We've talked a lot about our equity earnings.
Those are companies that we did not have I'll say the margin boost from recognizing those equity earnings in years past and that had -- sort of in the case of United Launch Alliance that's sort of a double benefit  because you lost the sales associated with that activity.
So the margin improvement was pretty substantial.
The last thing I'll point to sort of a structural change is if you just think of all the combinations that led to the current Lockheed Martin a number of those brought with them intangible amortizations associated with those acquisitions.
And those were a drag on margins in the early years of this corporation as well that no longer exist as we sit here today.
Bob? Thanks.
First let me thank everybody for being on the call.
We had a long day.
You had a longer day.
So we appreciate you being here with us.
I certainly appreciate your kind words and all the good wishes you offered me.
I was thinking that since I became our company's Chief Financial Officer in 1999 we've had about 52 quarters together to have these exchanges and I have really enjoyed the interaction that we've all shared over the years.
I want to wish each of you well in your professional pursuits and certainly in your personal lives.
At this end I'm certain our company is in great hands with Chris and Marillyn and Bruce and Jerry and the other members of the executive team.
I'm really grateful for having the privilege of working on this management team and having had the opportunity to work with my fellow employees here who are simply exceptional people who do extraordinary work in the nation's interest.
I will miss them and I will miss you but I will be listening to these calls.
So I'm sure that Chris and Bruce look forward to talking with all of us in January.
We'll sign off from this end.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day and welcome everyone to Lockheed Martin Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir please go ahead.
III</strong> Thank you Karen and good afternoon everyone.
Id like to welcome you to our fourth quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Marillyn Hewson our Chief Executive Officer and President and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I would remind you that statements made in todays call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see todays press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause the actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that Id like to turn the call over to Marillyn.
Thanks Jerry.
Good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
And I hope youve all had a good start to the New Year.
Before I begin I want to say that its a pleasure to be here on my first earnings call and I look forward to working with you going forward.
I hope you got a chance to review our press release outlining fourth quarter and full-year results.
I am extraordinarily pleased and proud of our Lockheed Martin team.
We have continued to achieve strong program execution and focus in a challenging environment.
These efforts enable the corporation to achieve exceptional operational and financial results in 2012.
Let me begin with a brief summary of 2012.
Strong order bookings in the fourth quarter resulted in our achieving a record annual level of almost $49 billion in new business awards from domestic and international customers.
Noteworthy awards included $4.4 billion on the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program for additional production activities $2 billion for two additional spacecraft on the Advanced EHF Military Communications program for the Air Force and $800 million for additional Patriot-3 missile defense components for the U.S.
government and Taiwan.
These new orders enabled us to finish 2012 with a record backlog of over $82 billion.
Our backlog of work provides a solid foundation for the future and is a direct indicator of the close alignment of our portfolio products with customers strategic priorities and requirements even in todays demanding fiscal climate.
Other record performance levels for the corporation included growing our earnings per share from continuing operations to $8.36 the highest EPS level we have ever achieved increasing our segment operating profit to almost $5.6 billion $300 million above the 2011 level.
Expanding our segment operating margin to a record 11.8% an increase of 40 basis points above the 2011 level and growing our sales to over $47 billion despite a challenging budget environment.
These achievements reflect our commitment to affordability as our team drives for increased efficiencies and improved execution for our customers.
We also continue to implement our cash deployment strategy to generate value to shareholders through dividend payments and share repurchases.
In the fourth quarter we paid $373 million in dividend and repurchased $286 million in shares.
These actions brought our full-year total for cash return to shareholders to $2.4 billion reflecting dividend payments of $1.4 billion and share repurchases of $1 billion.
In addition to the cash returns in 2012 we generated 20% total shareholder return achieved by stock-price appreciation and dividend yield.
These results reflect the quality of our work force the strength of the corporation and the focus we all have on delivering value to our customers and shareholders.
Thanks to everyone in the company for their contributions in driving the strong achievements.
In addition to these results we also continued our strategic acquisitions under our String of Pearls strategy with the purchase of two businesses in the quarter.
Both of these acquisitions expand our offerings in support of our customers increased emphasis on advanced unmanned systems and are consistent with our goal to maintain a portfolio of technology advanced options that will generate value for customers and shareholders.
The first acquisition was for Chandler/May a company that specializes in the design manufacturing and support of unmanned aerial systems.
The second acquisition was for CDL Systems a software engineering firm that specializes in the development and licensing of vehicle control software for unmanned systems.
These purchases following our acquisition early in 2012 of Procerus Technologies and will be part of our mission systems and training business where they will be integrated into our growing portfolio of unmanned systems and technologies.
Turning now to operational performance our five business areas continue to execute with exceptional skill and focus in providing critical products and services to customers.
While the quarter contain numerous accomplishments across the enterprise Id like to highlight two unprecedented successes in the ballistic missile defense test arena.
First four of our five business areas provided equipment and support in the first ever integrated ballistic missile defense test of the Aegis Patriot and THAAD systems.
These systems work together to successfully detect track and destroy multiple ballistic missile and cruise missile targets in a live fire test.
This operational test was conducted by soldiers sailors and airmen from multiple combatant commands and demonstrated the maturity and reliability of these essential missile defense systems.
It also demonstrated the benefits of layered interoperable missile defense solutions that can provide protection to the U.S.
and allies against the increasing proliferation of ballistic missiles.
With the proven reliability and capabilities of our Aegis Patriot and THAAD systems we look forward to growing domestic and international customer demand for missile defense systems.
The second significant ballistic missile defense event was achieved by our Medium Extended Air Defense or MEAD successfully tracking and intercepting a target in its first ever intercept flight test.
MEADs is a next-generation air and missile defense system that incorporates full parameter 360 defense and provide eight times the coverage area of current legacy systems while dramatically reducing operational and support cost.
With this intercept demonstrating the maturity next-generation capabilities and cost effectiveness of MEAD we urge Congress to provide future funding for the program.
Moving to F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program our aeronautics team continued their momentum in this quarter through significant advances on the development program and achieving an increasing tempo on production programs.
On the development program key achievements included accomplishment of test flights for the year that were 18% ahead of goal and accomplishment of test points for the year that were 10% ahead of the goal.
The aircraft also surpassed 5000 flight hours and achieved the first aerial weapons release for CTOL and STOVL aircraft and maximum high angle of attack fight on CTOL aircraft.
In addition to the test flight success I had the pleasure to attend the official delivery ceremony of the first operational STOVL aircraft to Marine Corp Air Station in Yuma Arizona in November.
The ceremony marked the handover of the jets to the service and with the receipt of these aircraft the base will start tactical operational training on this critical asset for the Marine Crop.
Also in the area of training the 33rd fighter wing at Eglin Air Force Base completed the requirements allowing their wing to begin pilot training in 2013.
These events in Arizona and Florida demonstrate the increasing tempo and maturity of the training programs as we work to get these assets to the services.
Turning to production activities we continue to make progress on our production tempo with delivery of 13 aircraft in the fourth quarter.
This brought our full year deliveries to 30 aircraft more than double the aircraft deliveries achieved in 2011.
Significant contractual progress was also achieved this quarter with completion and negotiations on the LRIP 5 contract awarded an undefinitized contract action LRIP 6 and long-lead for LRIP 7.
These contracts provides significant stability to the program as we work with our partners to provide these critical aircraft to domestic and international customers.
These latest contract awards bring our F-35 production backlog at year-end to 88 aircraft.
Our maturing production lines operational base stand up and expanded pilot training are all strong indicators of the F-35 programs positive trajectory.
Beyond the operational program accomplishments we continue to take additional actions to drive affordability across the corporations and to increase customer alignment.
Along with the perviously announced reorganization of our electronics systems business area and to two new business areas Missiles and Fire Control's and Mission Systems &amp; Training effective December 31 2012.
We also announced consolidation of several corporate functions at our headquarters designed to streamline and tighten the corporate staff.
These actions will improve collaboration and coordination across the enterprise increase efficiency and achieve greater synergy.
It will also focus us on the actions that best position the company for success and growth in a demanding and dynamic environment.
I would like to turn now to the status of DoD budgets and the continuing levels of uncertainty for fiscal year 13 and beyond funding levels.
Currently the DoD is operating under a continuing resolution through at least March 27 for FY 2013 with funding constraint to prior FY 2012 levels.
This limitation will cause funds to run short in some accounts and well continue last years dated priorities that dont necessarily reflect the new defense strategy because of this and other limitations associated with the full-year CR we are strongly urging Congress to pass the defense appropriations bill in March and not extend the CR for the remainder of the year.
The second area budget uncertainty is associated with the pending threat of sequestration or automatic budget cut.
Since our October call some encouraging action was undertaken by Congress and the White House to avoid implementation of these across the board budget reductions.
In early January the President timed the generation the deferred implementation of approximately $1.2 trillion in automatic federal budget reductions for two months until March 1.
However if sequestration is allowed to happen on March 1 its still result in cuts of $0.5 trillion each in defense and non-defense accounts over nine years.
For defense thats an additional $0.5 trillion in cuts beyond the $487 billion already imposed by the Budget Control Act of 2011 while we recognized the both parties are strongly imposed to allowing sequestration to happen.
We remain deeply concerned that sequestration could occur as the default outcome if negotiations failed to produce an agreement.
As the Joint Chiefs of Staff just explained in a powerful January 14 letter sequestration is not only puts a risk our defense industrial base it also forms military readiness and would quickly hollow out our military forces.
In the weeks ahead well continue to work with our government leaders to encourage a more effective solution to our nations fiscal challenges.
Despite the continuing uncertainty on U.S.
defense budget it is absolutely clear that there is a growing need for security solutions in a challenging global landscape.
Events this past quarter such as the successful North Korean multistage missile launch coupled with the continued rise in Chinas military strength ongoing instability in the Middle East and the expansion of terrorist activity in Africa only highlight the complexity and volatility embedded in the mission of maintaining global security.
Our portfolio of products and capabilities remain in direct alignment with this global security mission and we look forward to help in domestic and international customers secure solutions to their most critical defense and security requirements.
While no one can precisely predict the impacts of sequestration where events that will unfold in the global security environment there is one thing I know for certain every one of our 120 000 employees stands ready to take on whatever challenges emerge.
Focusing internally I want to reiterate the priorities that I have reinforced with the team since assuming my new role as CEO.
These priorities are consistent and unchanged from those that I helped to formulate as the member of the Executive Office and working with Bob Stevens in my prior role.
I thought it useful to outline those priorities on the call today.
My direction to our team is to grow the business with key drivers being fighter fleet recapitalization from the F-35 missile defense in Aegis THAAD and Patriot cargo aircraft fleet expansion with C-5M and C-130J littoral combat ships fleet expansion and C4ISR achieve higher levels of program performance and execution excellence to satisfy customer requirements and provide financial returns to shareholders pursue a strategy to secure and expand our core business and expand and to closely align adjacent markets such as cyber security grow international revenues to at least 20% of total corporate assets in the next few years.
Continue to return at least 50% of annual free cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Invest for growth through renovation product evolution and strategic acquisitions under our String of Pearls strategy.
Finally and importantly continue our strong focus on talent development and employee engagement.
I believe achievement of these priorities will enable our corporation to continue to provide superior performance to our customers and shareholders as we move forward.
Before I ask Bruce to give you some color and detail on our performance I want to highlight two organizational changes approved by our Board yesterday.
First Joanne Maguire Executive Vice President of our Space Systems business advised of her plan to retire from our company after a distinguished career.
Since taking over the leadership role in Space Systems in 2006 she has grown the business while streamlining the cost structure for our customers and expanding returns to shareholders.
Under her leadership and drive for innovation Space Systems achieved a remarkable track record of mission success and continues to provide broader array of advanced technology systems for national security civil and commercial customers.
Effective April 1 Rick Ambrose will assume responsibility as Executive Vice President of our Space Systems business replacing Joanne.
Rick brings over 33 years of experience in the aerospace and defense industry and has currently been serving as Vice President and Deputy for Space Systems reporting to Joanne.
Rick's vivid background within System Systems leading our intelligence business in IS&amp;GS and his leadership roles in our former Mission Systems and Sensors business will be extremely valuable experience as we move the space business forward for our customers and employees.
Secondly Linda Gooden Executive Vice President of Information Systems &amp; Global Solutions has also advised of her plan to retire after more than 32 years with corporation.
Linda assumed the leadership role at IS&amp;GS in 2007 and has managed over 30 000 professionals who provide integrated information technology solutions systems and support for worldwide missions to civil defense intelligence and other government customers.
Her customer knowledge and leadership have been key catalyst enabling IS&amp;GS to maintain its leading position as the largest IT provider to the U.S.
government for the past 18 years.
Effective April 1 Sondra Barbour will assume responsibility as Executive Vice President of IS&amp;GS replacing Linda.
Sondra is currently serving as our Senior Vice President Enterprise Business Services and Chief Information Officer for the Corporation.
As CIO Sondra is responsible for leading our internal IT operations including the protection of ours and our customers infrastructure and information from cyber threats.
She was also instrumental in defining and launching our new government and commercial cyber security business.
Sondras knowledge of IT systems coupled with 20 years experience in IS&amp;GS where she served in program management and as CIO and Vice President of Operations demonstrated her strong leadership and track record that have prepared her well for her new role to lead IS&amp;GS.
Both Joanne and Linda have had exceptional carriers and are exceptional executives in every respect through their dedication and professionalism; I really want to thank them for their leadership and service to corporation over their carriers these retirements and their succession by proven leaders highlight why weve invested so much energy and time in our talent management and leadership development programs.
Our succession planning process is vitally important to the future of the corporation and provides the outstanding cadre of highly qualified executives ready to assume additional responsibility and take our business forward.
Both Rick and Sondra represent the depth and breadth of talent in our company and bring proven leadership track records.
Each has decades of experience gained by working in diversified assignments.
They are leaders who have built superb teams in prior assignments and I look forward to their ongoing contributions as they assume their new role.
I will now ask Bruce to go through some of the details of our performance and then well open up the line for questions.
Bruce? Thanks Marillyn and good afternoon everyone.
As I highlight our key financial accomplishments please follow along with the web charts we included with our earnings release today.
Lets start with chart three; an overview of the year.
We grew sales for the year to $47.2 billion exceeding the guidance that we provided in October.
Ill discuss sales in greater detail in the next few charts.
We increased our segment operating margins to 11.8% or 40 basis points higher than our 2011 margin.
Our earnings per share were $8.36; we generated $1.6 billion in cash from operations after making $3.6 billion of pension contributions.
Ill explain the reasons for the additional contribution amount in subsequent charts.
And our backlog finished very strong at over $82 billion.
We had said throughout 2012 that we expect the backlog to end the year at about the same level as we began but this obviously exceeded our expectations.
Chart four shows our sales trend for the past four years $47.2 billion represents the highest level of sales in our history and Im pleased that weve been able to grow about 8% since 2009 a period with significant economic and budgetary pressures.
Moving to chart five and looking at our new alignment of five business areas three of our five business areas grew sales during the year including MST aeronautics and space while missiles and fire control sales were comparable to 2011.
As expected IS&amp;GS showed a reduction in sales versus 2011 reflecting both the overall decline in the federal IT budget and the effects of the continuing resolution in the fourth quarter.
Turning to chart six in segment operating results we grew consolidated segment operating profit by over $300 million with one quarter of the growth due to the higher sales volume mentioned previously.
The remaining increase results from the 40 basis point margin improvement to 11.8% reflecting the strong performance and proactive cost measures taken during the year.
So turn to chart seven you see each of the business areas margins in 2012 compared with 2011.
Three of our five business areas improve margins in the year including aeronautics MST and missiles and fire control.
And space was comparable with the prior year reflecting the breadth of our execution and cost improvement actions.
On chart eight we will discuss the earnings per share for the year.
We grew EPS by more than 6% over the 2011 amount and this represents the first time weve exceeded the $8 per share level.
Our pension adjusted EPS grew to just below $10 per share.
On chart nine we will reconcile our actual 2012 EPS versus our last guidance range.
In October we gave our EPS guidance as $8.20 to $8.40 resulting in a midpoint of $8.30 per share.
Our fourth quarter results yielded $150 million more in segment operating profits than was contemplated in the EPS midpoint resulting in a $0.31 improvement.
We had other items that reduced EPS by $0.25 including a non-operational tax item worth $0.18 and special item in the quarter related to headcount reductions in our aeronautics business that was worth $0.05.
Overall the fourth quarter changes netted to the $0.06 increase over our October mid point guidance.
The non-operational tax item was due to our $2.5 billion discretionary pension contribution in the fourth quarter which caused our taxable income to be lower than the level planned in the first three quarters of the year.
This required a true up in the fourth quarter reducing the manufacturing deduction for the year and lowering EPS by $0.18.
Future years taxable income will be higher as a result of the accelerated pension contributions end of 2012 and we expect to capture most of the reduced manufacturing deduction over the next two years.
Weve [weighed] [ph] the contributions for several reasons.
First with the possibility of Corporate Tax Reform this contribution locks in our pension deduction at the current statutory rate of 35% and should the rate be reduced to 25% as has been discussed this benefit will be worth $250 million.
Second earlier contributions to our pension plans allow the assets to grow quicker also lowering future required contributions.
Next we have the cash on hand to make the contributions which otherwise would yield minimal interest income and finally the acceleration into 2012 increases operating cash in the future providing a fairly quick payback and a very low interest-rate environment.
Chart 10 shows our operating cash results prior to the discretionary pension contribution.
Our guidance in October was that our cash from operations will be greater than or equal to $4 billion prior to the pension contribution our cash from operations was $4.1 billion slightly higher than expected.
On chart 11 well discuss our backlog trends for the past few years.
Weve grown our backlog since 2009 by $5 billion more than our sales growth over the same time frame.
And the $82.3 billion at year end 2012 represents our highest ever backlog level.
As you can see our book-to-bill ratio has exceeded 1.0 in each of the last three years.
Chart 12 provides the assumption embedded in our 2013 guidance importantly our guidance for the year assumes a continuum resolution through the current date of March 27 and it does not assume the sequestration reductions are implemented.
Our fast cash pension adjustment of $485 million is based on a 4% discount rate and long-term asset return of 8% consistent with our assumptions in October.
And our planned contribution level in 2013 is $1.5 billion equal to the level of cash recovery in the year.
The expected earnings from the $2.5 billion pension contribution reduces our 2013 FAS expense by $200 million at the assumed 8% return levels.
2013 will include both the 2012 and 2013 benefit of the R&amp;D tax credit legislation passed earlier this year.
As a result of that legislation being passed in January the 2012 benefit will be recognized entirely in the first quarter as well one quarter of the 2013 credits.
We expect this benefit to amount to $45 million in the quarter and approximately $75 million for the year.
Finally our share count remains flat with share repurchases offsetting the effects of option exercises and new issuances.
Chart 13 provides our new outlook for 2013 our sales for the year are consistent with our expectations when we last spoke in October despite the significant increase in fourth quarter 2012 sales.
Segment operating profit and the resulting margin are both higher than we indicated in October with the expectation that our strong performance in 2012 will carry over into 2013.
EPS from continuing operations are expected to be between $8.80 and $9.10 for the year and cash from operations are expected to be greater than or equal to $4 billion.
As prevailing in the year we would expect sequential growth in our sales during the year with the first quarter being markedly lower than the next three quarters and about $1 million lower than the first quarter of 2012 due primarily to lower aircraft qualities in our aeronautics business.
In the first quarter we expect to have 10 fewer F-16s six fewer C-130s low C-5 deliveries and lower F-22 volume as there were production deliveries in the first quarter last year and there are none this year.
Margins are expected to be fairly consistent back order in the mid 11% range that could obviously change depending on the timing of risk retirements.
Cash would be strong in the first quarter with a benefit of the large tax refund as a result of the discretionary pension contribution and backlog will likely drop in the first quarter and first half of the year as orders are expected to be more heavily loaded in the second half of the year.
Chart 14 shows the guidance ranges for sales and segment operating profit by our business areas.
Note that the reorganization of our former electronic systems business results in two nearly equally sized business areas in Missiles and Fire Control and Mission Systems and Training.
And finally we wrap up with our summary on Chart 15.
2012 was a strong year for us both operationally and financially.
These results reflect the strong performance and proactive steps weve been taking for several years and our challenges to continue that success into the future.
Our backlog is positioned just well and speaks to the alignment of our portfolio with the needs of our customers and require the 20% total return we provided our shareholders in 2012 and we stand ready to perform in 2013.
With that we are ready for your questions.
Karen?  Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Jason Gursky from Citi.
Good afternoon everyone.
Hi Jason.
Yeah welcome Marillyn.
Bruce I wanted to target this question to you and talk a little bit about cash deployment.
I think this big pension contribution that we made here during the quarter may have caught a few of us by surprise.
And I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about whether you contemplated kind of letting us know that this was going to be coming perhaps why you didn't? And then also maybe just talk a little bit about long-term capital deployment and what you see on the horizon with regard to the mix we just now had a big pension contribution does that take that off the table now for a number of years and we get a much more steady stream of operating cash flow that can be used to deploy either back into the business or back into shareholders through repurchases and dividends.
Thanks Jason.
I think you got your money worth on that question.
So let's see where do I start as to why we did it at the end of the year and why we didn't tell you and did we contemplate telling you.
We did a fairly comprehensive study as far as pension analyses are concerned relative to our funding requirements the expectations in the future the sensitivity of our plans through asset returns discount rate changes and the like.
You may or may not be aware we actually sent out in the fourth quarter an offering to our terminated but vested participants in the plan offering to essentially give them lump sum payments in lieu of the pension payments over periods of time when they retired.
We got a fairly good return on that actually reducing some of the volatility and our liability associated with those individuals going forward.
We were studying this issue right up until literally the end of the fourth quarter Jason.
And we were studying at the same time the prospects of what was going on in Washington relative to corporate tax reform and we were speaking to the Board at that time saying we think this might be sort of the confluence of a lot of different actions that should result in us potentially making a larger contribution for the pension plan in 2012 in order to in my words lock-in the deduction at 35%.
We do feel theres a strong possibility for corporate tax reform going forward.
We think that number could be anywhere from a 25% to 28% rate as opposed to the current 35% and we very much wanted to as I said earlier lock in that rate.
I walked through the very dynamics that I said in the prepared remarks relative to we thinking that this is a very quick payback and the interest that were earning on the cash on the balance sheet is probably about 20 basis points as we sit here today.
So if the acceleration occurs and within a low interest rate period of time and were getting low interest on the cash that sits on the balance sheet currently it did accelerate the tax deduction as we talked about earlier and I liked the fact that it also reduces the gap between pension adjusted and reported earnings as I mentioned earlier as well.
Now we look at this Jason and now this I'll give you some stats here.
So taking a look at 2013 one of the reasons we did it the $2.5 billion as we looked at how much cash did we want to have left on the balance sheet and how much flexibility did we want to have going into 2013 to enable us to do the sorts of cash deployment activities weve done in years past.
So in 2013 we're looking at $4 billion of operating cash.
We're looking at roughly $1 billion or so of capital expenditure.
So $3 billion of free cash flow.
We do have about $150 million debt retirement that we were going to do in 2013.
So think of that as contributing $850 million sort of unencumbered of our free cash flow and we felt that that $850 million plus the $1.9 billion on the balance sheet so almost $2.8 billion was very adequate to continue to do the kind of cash deployment that we have done in the past.
I think a fair question would be so you guys have said youre not going to have a share count increase what's that level of share repurchase that youre counting on there and at least for our planning purposes we're expecting about $700 million of share repurchase activity in order to affect that and that's our estimate of how many options will be exercised in a year and also how many new issuances of stock will occur for executive compensation matching of our retirement plans in the like.
So collectively we think from a cash deployment -between the current dividend contributions that we'll have in 2013 or roughly $1.5 billion plus the $700 million of share repurchase embedded in our guidance thats $2.2 billion.
As I said I think we still have adequate flexibility on the balance sheet and unencumbered cash flow to remain opportunistic to do additional share repurchases or mergers and our acquisition candidates if in fact they looked fine for us to make those acquisitions.
I think the other side of it is we dont see this as a change and I think Marillyn made those comments in her prepared remarks relative to our long standing cash deployment practice of contributing at least 50% of more of free cash flow to our shareholders and that is still our intent and I think I said it earlier but Ill close again the reason for the timing was we literally didnt have this discussion until late in December with our Board of Directors before making this contribution.
So kind of long winded answer Jason sorry about that?  Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Richard Safran from Buckingham Research.
Hi good afternoon.
Hi Rich.
I have a question of IS&amp;GS youre guiding to 9% margins for the year given the margin pressure in this environment right now can you discuss a little bit about what gives you the ability and confidence you can sustain 9% margins and also maybe if you could comment if this is being driven by you cyber and intelligence business.
Hey thanks Richard.
Ill take that one as well.
So if we look at IS&amp;GS I think we made a very conscious decision and I discussed this on previous calls we try to differentiate ourselves somewhat in this market by focusing on what Ill call mission IT where were literally sort of providing the embedded capabilities in large measure for our customers as opposed to what Ill call commodity IT and you think about that as sort of back shop processing and the like helpdesks those sort of things where we really didn't see we have done that work in the past but really we didn't see sort of a discriminator or differentiator for Lockheed Martin in doing that work.
So we focused much more on the mission part of the IT service that tends to be a higher margin part of the service activity in the IT world.
So that's one thing that gives me the confidence that we continue to do that.
And as I look back Rich over the last probably eight or nine quarters IS&amp;GS has been nine or the low 9% return on sales consecutively for those eight or nine quarters.
So that gives me confidence again going into 2013 and we continue to do that.
You asked about the cyber we are very excited about the cyber activity within IS&amp;GS.
We've had some very successful wins including taking some business away from some of our competitors within cyber.
I believe we are the largest federal cyber provider in the industry.
And that work is very valued that's very much in line with that mission IT that I talked about and that work as you would suspect supports that 9% margin as well.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Doug Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
Good afternoon.
Hi Doug.
Id like to follow-on Jason's question about cash deployment.
If I look at the last few years particularly 2010 and 2011 and if you look at what I will call the cash yield to shareholders the net repurchase of shares plus the dividends you've been above 10%.
And I think a lot of people found that very attractive.
Today when youre looking forward for this year were basically at 5% if you assume no net share repurchases and about 5% dividend yield.
When you look out to 2014 2015 how do you think about that do you think about it in terms of what yield the shareholders would be is this a temporary period we are handling a pension issue.
And then you may go up to I would call larger yields to shareholders in the future.
How do you look at this? Doug Ill try that one as well Ill speak for myself and I think I speak for the Board.
We dont go about selecting share repurchase amounts from what additive to our dividend levels would get us to a certain level of return on our shares or a certain level of return on our market cap if you will.
And that is just not the way we think about that.
We very much look at this as opportunistic.
weve increased obviously the share the dividend amounts considerably over the past few years to where that in and of itself essentially takes care of the 50% or more of free cash flow without any contribution of share repurchases.
I think if you look at where our pension plan is sitting from a funding perspective.
To me its fairly obvious that youd want to help that pension plan get a higher level of funding thats definitely a near-term use of cash than maybe it was a few years ago with the rates going down.
Ill tell you that was very much part of the study that I mentioned on discussion with Jason as to what is the appropriate amount to contribute to the pension versus the real life possibility that interest rates increase and actually get us into an over-funded situation but we are certainly not abandoning our share repurchase strategy we want to remain optimistic thats the reason I try to give the color on the fact that we have lots of flexibility not just this year but you asked about 2014 and 2015 with growing cash as I expect to happen over the next two years I think well have even greater flexibility in 14 and 15 than we do in 2013.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Peter Arment from Sterne Agee.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong>  Yes good afternoon everyone.
Good afternoon Marillyn.
Question Bruce I guess on the backlog whats been impressive over the last few years with the defense pressure has been the your ability to kind of grow the backlog.
Can you talk a little bit about how the backup looks for 13 and what you need to see in terms of bookings in the second half of this year for international activity to kind of hold these levels just given what were going to see with sequestration kicking in? Thanks.
Yes let me give you sort of maybe a wide all-encompassing orders and backlog response to the question Peter.
So expectation wise if I take a look at where we expect the orders for the year to end and where we are right now from a backlog perspective I think well end the year close to the $80 billion level we might not be able to replicate the $82 billion thats the highest level we ever have done but I feel pretty good about being able to get to the $80 billion or so.
This will be an interesting year; youve seen some of the correspondences come out of the acquisition community relative to delaying some of the near term awards associated with continuing resolution and anticipation of sequestration.
So we are definitely expecting to have a significantly more loaded second half of the year than in the first half.
So I would expect each of the first two quarters to be below a 1.0 book to bill Id expect the next two to be above 1.0 book-to-bill.
Ill say we have a significant amount of international activity that were counting on the year.
Ill just rattle off a few of the orders that I think are important both from a dollar perspective and maybe a strategic perspective.
And Ill ask Marillyn maybe to comment on some of the strategic ones as well.
But we got sort of near-term  think of these as first half I hate to give quarters only because of some of the delays that have occurred.
But first half we got the two LCS ships for the FY13 order.
We got closure for the lot six international aircraft for five aircraft.
Were hoping and our customer is hoping to definitize the lot 6 and lot 7 for F-35 negotiations in the first half of the year.
I think an important one that I think is worth mentioning is we expect to get long lead funding for lot 8 of the F-35 program for some 48 aircrafts.
Just the quantity alone versus the prior years quantity is worth mentioning.
Think of that as 29 domestic aircrafts and 19 international aircraft including 9 FMS for military sales outside of the eight initial partners on the country (inaudible) excuse me.
Strategically there is some things to watch that arent necessarily big dollar events but they are strategically important to us.
So the Aegis Combat Systems engineering contract within our MST operations think of this as next generation Aegis development for the capabilities there.
The KC-46 training and the interesting thing about that is were actually -  the only reason were able to bid that frankly is because of the acquisition of the Sim-Industries last year that gives us some capabilities to do that training capability on the 767 aircraft is the basis of the KC-46.
We have the Air and Missile Defense Radar which is sort of the next generation air and missile defense as the name implies radar for surface combatants.
Second half of the year we have a couple of vehicles 5 and 6 for the SBIRS contract some THAAD UAE follow on production Lot 5 contract for the THAAD order and some orders they tend to get on the common annual basis the Fleet Ballistic Missile and next order the RERP somewhere that mix internationally weve got the C-130 to Saudi as well.
Weve got an Iraqi F-16 order for another batch of 18 aircraft were hopeful for and scattered throughout that are other smaller international business I should point out that in the year 2012 we did about 17% sales and about 17% of orders on international basis and thats roughly what were expecting in 2013 maybe little bit higher that the orders as far as the total content of our orders in 2013.
So let me just add to that we do have a strong focus on international growth in our growth portfolio and as Bruce has listed out several items but certainly theres continued strong demand for Air and Missile defense in the Middle East and Asia-Pacific and so we expect to continue to see a pull for PAC-3 THAAD Aegis and in addition to that air mobility F-16 as Bruce he listed off several of those things that are out there that were looking at but we expect to grow our portfolio in the international side to at least 20% of our revenue in the next few years.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Thanks good morning  sorry good afternoon by now first one is a clarification Bruce is the $1.5 million in 2013 discretionary or required I would be surprised if required give me a brief on that? Yeah.
Thats our plan levels.
Myles I think the required amount is less than that.
Okay.
And you mentioned the lot 8 quantities 19 international; I guess nine of those being able to mess Japan or Israel or combination of the two.
And then 10 partners from a partner perspective its obviously good growth overall but it seems like the partners are certainly flipping out to the right versus where they would have been 12 months ago in lot 8.
Is there upward mobility to the lot 8 or is that kind of what the international partners will look like I guess about 12 months ago I would have thought maybe that number would have been 30 now it sounds like its 10 and what does that bode for the next couple halves thereafter? Yeah.
Im trying to think of the 30 Myles.
I cant imagine the scenario that would have gotten us to 30 aircraft.
I think perhaps the number that you were thinking that might have been a little bit higher was the Turkish aircraft in lot 8.
They are now pushed out to the right.
I think if we actually go back a couple of years you would have seen fewer Israelian Japanese aircraft and so its actually helped to mitigate some of those Turkish aircraft at least in lot 8 but thats you asked about the flexibility I wouldnt think we would see the orders bouncing around much if any from that level customers I will say yes we have ongoing conversations with our customers and they continue to like at the F-35 as we continue to perform.
And I think thats the more we can do and demonstrate the capabilities of the aircraft and show that capability to customers like South Korea for instance the more of this aircraft will stay on the future.
Then I think as I talked about earlier in my remarks we've made great progress on the program it's maturing and the development process as well as the production ramping up.
We've got 5 000 hours on the aircraft.
We are committed to delivering an affordable aircraft and we are on plan actually we're being ahead of plan to 2010 baseline that was put in place.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol from JP Morgan.
Thanks good afternoon.
Hi Joe.
This has been a very smooth transition thus far in terms of leadership Marillyn.
But when I look at the either 2011 annual report in front of me and there are nine folks in the picture.
One of them is in his current seat and that is the person next to you Bruce everyone else has changed.
So my question is in that context you have a very smooth transition all the plants are the same but the combination of these people here must have very different ideas in how to do things including you.
So I am wondering if you could list a top two or three may be that on top of your head in terms of how we think about the company what might change?  Well we are all connected.
This is a very tight team this leadership team and that is why our succession plan has been so smooth and successful.
We have been operating to the same strategy for a number of years and the results demonstrate the strategy is working.
We have very experienced team of folks and so even though ones that are moving into the new roles have been with Corporation for a number of years.
They are all experienced executives and we spent a lot of time working together on making sure everyone does understand our strategy.
So we in fact in another week will have the entire leadership team from across the Corporation together to talk about our strategy for the coming year to build on that so we dont work together for a long time and were not in the mood of changing the strategy that we have but our Board of Directors are directly involved in talent development and the succession training process.
In fact as Joanne and Linda announced their intent to retire we took that to the Board we reflected back on our pipeline of talent with them and there was not even a hesitation on who would move into the next role.
So weve been calling together with tight leadership team for a number of years and its a well planned transition process and I dont expect there to be changes.
Well work together and deal with the environment theyre operating in and adapt to it.
Thank you.
and our next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Inc.</strong>  Thank you very much.
I just want to follow-up a little bit on sort of change in the environment that you see going forward and how you want to take advantage of that Marillyn.
In one case you have Congress doing things like ring-fencing on EADS and in other cases; you have what I call low-cost competitors trying to unseat a very reliable solution in ULA.
how do you deal with those two competitive threats?  Any competitive threats weve taken to account the environment that were operating in I think we have a very strong portfolio and even me I think is demonstrating success the flight test that we had in November and the flight test we have planned through this year later this year.
Were going to operate to our technologies and our innovation that we bring to the marketplace is the hallmark of this corporation.
and we are very much proactively focused on cost efficiencies and thats a critical discriminator for Israel.
So this competition that we are dealing with its really not new to us at all.
We are used to it.
It's constant.
That's how we operate all the time.
It is in a competitive environment and we will continue to do so.
So I don't find that has something that is a big change for us.
We understand our competition we understand the market that we are operating in and we're going to excel in these markets.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Good afternoon.
Hi George.
I'd like you to go through a little bit more detail some of the moving parts in aeronautics something like one of the things that's in the release that the operating profit is about comparable to 11 for the F-35 and the F-22.
So the F-22 is down considerably from last year.
F-35 is probably grown.
So can you discuss kind of how much growth we saw in the F-35 where you are? If we change they made a booking rate and the margins et cetera.
George are you talking 2012 or are you talking to 2013? I was just reading from the release in terms of your analysis that the operating profit for the December quarter there is a comment in there that operating profit was comparable to the same period in 11 for F-35 contracts and the F-22 and sales were comparable as well which says that the I would imply the F-35 profit must have gone up because you were booking lower on the F-35 than you were on the F-22 we know the F-22 revenues are way down.
Looking for some more clarity.
I think in the press release I don't have it in front of me George.
But I think what they are saying is that F-35 sales and F-35 profit this quarter are comparable to that F-35 sales and F-35 profit levels last year whereas F-22 sales and profit are comparable to last years quarter as well not that the two of them are comparable to each other if you follow.
(Inaudible) were coming on the hour but because we have a number of people from the queue are sort of extended the comments today.
Wed like to go ahead and extend the call at least another 15 minutes to 4:15 or so to let people ask questions.
Certainly sir.
Our next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Hi good afternoon and welcome Marillyn.
Thank you.
Just wanted to ask quickly about the F-35 the commentary from your customer last quarter before you sent the contract was that you were pretty fall apart on terms yet you closed that negotiation before the end of the year and I wondered if you might comment on how you reached a conclusion there and what the implications are for the follow-on negotiations from your prospective as Bruce highlighted that theres several up to follow-on lot negotiations that are sitting in front of you this year.
any color would be much appreciated? Sure.
Carter well basically on the F-35 there were five negotiations what was important was for both sides to understand the cost structure of their positions.
and so we had an opportunity to spend time with our customer and let them share with us how they viewed all of the cost elements we had an opportunity to likewise share that with them.
and I think through that process we were able to come to a mutual understanding and get to a closer negotiation and we reached a fair and yet challenging agreement.
and so it wasnt  I think it did take a little longer because we had a lot of time that we had to go through to from both sides to really assess it but it was nothing around the terms and conditions that drove that it was really around the costs.
So I think were in a good posture for lot 6 and 7 we already have the undefinitized contract action and theyre under contract and we are in direct discussions right now at the program level on the lot 6 and 7 and the intend is to negotiate both of them together and get that done in the first half of the year and our customers really need us going forward and make sure that we meet the challenges but they put in front of us and that were taking cost out.
So in addition to getting our prime negotiated and getting on with our 6 and 7 we are working very hard on taking costs out of our business and driving toward a more affordable product for them in all aspects of our business.
Thank you.
and our next question comes from the line of Rob Spingarn from Credit Suisse.
Yes good afternoon.
Hi Rob.
A question for Bruce and this is building on Georges question on the aeronautics but I would like to take you up on the 2013 part of that and may I ask if you could refresh us on the manifest by program your quantities the margin you see for the major programs and in particular if you could talk just update us on the F-35 on the 36 aircraft how we just think about which lots those are from and profitability on F-35 in 13 relative to 12? Rob you asked the question to me.
so Ill answer it.
So as we look at 2013 I think I said in the October call were going to be down probably 10 C-130 aircraft so think of that  we did I believe 34 in 2012 and other 24 or so in 2013.
The F-16s 37 last year about 13 this year think of that has really no change in aircraft deliveries from the four more flying.
All the change were talking about there was the aircraft that were delivered on to Turkish lines so you will see sort of cost fluctuations associated with that with the aircraft coming off the line in full order.
C-5 weve talked we really talked in the October call about the increased volume there.
So we ended up delivering four we actually delivered maybe an extra that we work exactly counting on delivering in 2012 but we ended up with four for the year.
Were expecting somewhere around eight so kind of a doubling of quantities on the C-5 program next year.
And you talked about the F-35 deliveries were looking at probably a 20% increase.
We did 30 this year were looking at 36 next year.
(Inaudible) aircraft those were I believe I will make it just a little bit off I believe those were the tail-end.
We started delivering lot 4 aircraft at the end of 2012.
Well deliver all remaining lot 4 aircraft in 2013 and then well start and Ive lost track exactly.
Were out somewhere in the middle of the year third quarter-ish time of the year well start delivering lot 5 aircraft and those will be the aircraft that we deliver all the way through the end of the year.
Margins on the F-35 program.
We are expecting to go up in 2013.
Therefore no other reason than the absence of the profit adjustment we took I believe in the second quarter on the SCD contract to lower the expectations on the award fee going forward.
But were also because we did have success Ill remind you we started 2012 for the goal of delivering 30 aircraft we had multiple strike at our four more facility and we still delivered 30 aircraft and so as youd like to imagine that says the efficiencies we are getting in the production line are starting to be self evident.
And with those efficiencies we would expect in 2013 to actually have some profit step ups on the production contracts so we would expect the overall rate between the combined SCD contract and the LRIPs in 2013 to be higher than it were in 2012.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr from Cowen &amp; Company.
Thank you very much.
I may have missed it but what did you say about the orders for the full year 2013 and could you give us a little split between if there is no sequestration I assume that to your assumption and if there is sequestration which part of our business which of your orders put it that way 2013 do you see as a greatest risk? So 2013 the orders I was talking about where we I think what I said is we expect to have orders given our sales level that would essentially get us back to about $80 billion backlog so you can kind of solve for the math I will think of it as I dont know somewhere $40 billion $45 billion or so and as far as we are not assuming the effects of sequestration as I said in my prepared remarks and how that would manifest itself in terms of the impact in the orders it always described IS&amp;GS as a very short cycle business if you look at the numbers for IS&amp;GS right now we are expecting a downturn in 2013 over 2012 and to large extent thats because the federal IT budget has gone down frankly with or without sequestration I think a fair question is how much more can you take out as the federal IT budget even under sequestration environment you still accomplish a test that you need from an IT perspective.
We dont have a lot of we look at there has probably a shift over the past two years to have more of these IDIQ task orders.
So Id suspect and a lot of those where they are occurring is in the IS&amp;GS business so I would expect during the sequestration we would see less extra sizing of those IDIQ task orders.
I said earlier  in response to another question I lost track who asked it that I think were seeing some of the sort of the push out orders right now in part because of Secretary Carters guidance relative to preparation under the continuing resolution and I would argue one of the prospects of sequestration they are pushing out some of the larger orders I believe anything over $0.5 billion as to go to him for approval or its authorized.
so Im not knowing exactly how sequestration will be manifested in terms of what Id like to call the peanut spread versus a targeted spread its hard for me to say how those order could be impacted whether theyd be pushed to the right or reduced and at this point Id frankly be speculating at this point other than to say IS&amp;GS will likely get hit the largest percent would be my guess the longer cycle businesses would be get less approval than IS&amp;GS.
All right.
I will just add to that on the sequestration front I mean thats why we have been so vocal about what a terrible policy that is to have sequestration come into play some are very encouraged that were trying to  that our government Congress is trying to get to a permanent elimination of those across the board cut because if fact if they have if theyre going to take any cuts and they can do it along the lines of the national security strategy and do it in the areas that align better with what our administration and our entire defense is trying to accomplish thats the best outcome.
And for us as we look at it I mean I think we have a great portfolio thats aligned with those strategic priorities of the US government and our defense department.
So if we get through sequestration and it doesnt happen and it allows our defense department to decide where they take cuts we think were actually very well-positioned.
Thank you.
And our next question comes the line of David Strauss from UBS.
Good afternoon.
Hi David.
Marillyn a question for you you guys have gone after you cost structure very aggressively just like you tell both from a square footage prospective and head count.
Despite the fact that the budget hasnt come down much yet and your top line is held up pretty well.
How much more room do you have to address headcount and square footage industrial cost structure and its entirety maybe disproportioning what happens to the budget from here.
Well I tell.
were a large corporation and we have I think we still have more opportunity particularly on the foot print side.
As we laid out a plan to take cost out we put it in more aggressively about 3 years ago and so weve been about this pro active approach to taking out cost in our infrastructure and our processes for a number of years.
As you mentioned we have had some reductions in for us weve taken our some management layers weve been collapsing some organizations in order to get some cost out in that regard.
And on the foot print side weve taken out about $1.9 million square feet for the last couple of years and were going to take another $2.9 million between now and the end of 2014.
So there is more to go there I believe there is also opportunities for us.
Just to continue on an ongoing basis to drive cost out and so that we can meet the demand of our custom members.
Weve been getting out of these space for example well continue to look at even providing more affordable products to our customers taking weighed out at how we can reduce cycle time all of those things that would give them a more affordable product as well.
So well continue to do that that is something we set targets on every year drive cost out of our business and we want to continue to do that remain competitive and win more business.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
Good afternoon Bruce I was wondering if you could walk a little bit through the cash in 2013 just as you get from cash flow from operations about $1.6 billion to over $4 billion.
We know pension is certainly less of a headwind but what else is improving taxes interest advances working capital.
What else for the drivers there? Let me see if I can do that on top off my head Sam so $4 billion as you said in 2013 versus the $1.6 billion level the biggest driver obviously is the $2.5 billion pension contribution $3.6 million I guess I should say versus the $1.5 million by 2013.
Were actually expecting a slight increase in our working capital and something Ill speak from myself personally that I have targeted to try to minimize that amount of working capital growth.
I think some of that might be a little bit of planning conservatism.
We tend to plan even say our several international orders maybe a little bit lighter relative to payment terms than we actually are able to negotiate that ends up manifesting itself in the form of higher working capital than maybe what we actually experience that what Ill be watching.
Income taxes I am trying to think what were planning on income taxes.
See were actually down I believe I think were down probably like  were actually further paying out relative to tax that is fairly close from booking within our earnings its down probably about $150-ish million just.
So it is sort of a cash flow up down.
You see the $150 million from an earnings perspective going down the cash.
As far as the biggest drivers that I am looking at next year a little bit of change in depreciation amortization about enough to talk about so really just sort of the working capital and a slight change in the taxes there.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak from Goldman Sachs.
Hi good afternoon Bruce and Jerry and welcome to the earnings call process Marillyn.
Thank you.
Marillyn I wanted to ask you the sort of a follow up to the question on cost cutting but a little bit bigger picture and long-term.
One of the big concerns we still hear from investors on defense companies is with regard to the sustainability of margins and whether or not there is a shoot or drop there.
And in historical cycles youve seen margins come down pretty significantly Lockheed Martin has been able to kind of hum along at this 11.5% segment operating margin right through everything weve seen thus far.
How do you think about where margins go and how sustainable they are? Is there risk in your view that the part of the backlog was more favorable in terms of trade sunsets and more difficult backlog layers in just curious how you think about that given your many experiences operating the business? And then one quick for Bruce.
Have you done the math on the 2014 FAS/CAS number with the hypothetical that nothing changes in 14 versus 13.
Thanks for the question.
Ill just kick-off with the margins.
As you look at our portfolio we have a lot of mature products that we have to move down the production lines and those that are moved into production and were in position where we can drive higher margins through the process of booking higher profit rates on those programs moving forward.
And then as I said were growing our international sales component and through that process because of the risk return relationship there on the international sales and we expect to get higher margins on that.
While the portfolio is transitioning if you think about where F-35 is we are still on development but concurrent to that were moving into production and with that production over time and with the volume that were going to bring along in a fixed price incentive environment and then fixed price environment thats going to allow us to improve our margins.
LCS with our LCS program moving along as it ramps up with additional ships coming online that will allow us to improve margins and a lot of our missile programs are well long in production.
So theres fewer development programs in place three to five elements coming along strongly.
And then its typically and internationally as I said we see our margins.
We think Bruce do you want to take the other part of this question? Yeah.
not if I remember right have you done the math; I think you said FAS/CAS in 2014 under the current assumption that we have done that math.
Actually we have done about 15.2; Ill give you a bonus question there.
So as we look at 14 were probably seeing current course of speed somewhere about $350-ish million improvements over the $485 million we have today.
I think the more interesting model is as I look at the 13 14 15 I think of the change I should say really dramatic swing in FAS/CAS with current assumptions and obviously if the discount rate goes north and quite I should hope it does sometimes soon then those commercials change even more dramatical.
And I think maybe one more.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from the line of 	Bill Loomis from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Great thanks for taking the question.
Bruce just when you talked about the first quarter being $1 billion lower.
I just want to be clear that that was versus the year ago.
And then you talked about the lower deliveries in aeronautics but obviously with that grouping 3.7 billion in the first quarter 12 that would be a pretty significant percentage drop.
So it is the bulk of that can be there and if now which is the other groups and why do you see that coming back if it is coming from the other groups as well.
So Bill you heard rightly.
The billion dollars I was talking about was comparing first quarter 2013 versus first quarter of 2012.
I gave in my prepared remarks the aircraft quality changes.
So very very significant within aeronautics and the reason we feel good about it coming back the other way is because those aircraft are higher on a comparative basis to the previous quarter in the next three quarters.
The other  just as I look at the data releases I said here today.
Part of the way I would look at sales going forward.
Again I mentioned earlier its sequential growth quarter-over-quarter.
So think of the  its obviously lower I believe every single quarter versus 2012 but it gets lower than 2012 by a smaller percent with each successive quarter.
Said differently fourth quarter 2013 is not nearly as far off of fourth quarters of 2012 on the first three quarters of 2013 versus the first three quarters of 2012.
And the other thing I looked at is the innovative software but as more I just say but the second half of the year from a revenue perspective is about $1 billion for that six months greater than the first half of the year.
So were definitely the level of back-end loaded in large part because of the aircraft qualities we heave there but yes something of the other shifts within the business areas as well forcing in the second half.
So I want to just wrap up here and tell you all thank you for joining us on the call today.
And we look forward to speaking to you in April.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in todays conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Good day and welcome everyone to the Lockheed Martin First Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Todays call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
III</strong> Thank you Aly and good morning everyone.
Id like to welcome you to our first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Marillyn Hewson our Chief Executive Officer and President; and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Statements made in todays call that are not historical fact are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see todays press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that Id like to turn the call over to Marillyn.
Thanks Jerry.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call today.
Before I begin I want to offer congratulations to our Lockheed Martin team for their outstanding performance that enabled the achievement of strong first quarter operational and financial results while operating in a dynamic and challenging environment.
Their focus and efforts have our corporation poised for continued success in delivering solutions to customers and value to shareholders.
While Bruce will cover the financials in more detail later on in the call I would highlight some noteworthy financial performance in the quarter that included: Growth and earnings per share to $2.33 15% above last years first quarter level; expansion of segment operating margin to 12.1% achieving an increase of 20 basis points above last years level; and generation of $2.1 billion in cash from operation.
Our continued strong cash flow is key to our cash deployment strategy to generate value to shareholders for share repurchases and dividend payments.
In the first quarter we repurchased over 5 million shares of stock for approximately $460 million and paid slightly under $400 million in dividends.
These combined cash deployment actions returned over $830 million to shareholders in the quarter.
We continue to execute our strategy through solid performance on our corporate business and by winning key competitors and follow-on awards to extend our franchise programs.
We also expanded our international business activities and continued our measured pursuit and exploration into adjacent new businesses.
Let me begin with a brief summary of our key order bookings in the quarter.
Noteworthy awards included Aeronautics receipt of an IDIQ award on the F-22 program for a 10 year fleet modernization and extension under the Raptor enhanced development and integration program with the potential value of almost $7 billion and over eight long refunds for 29 new F-35 aircraft to the U.S.
government.
Additionally we were awarded funds for long-lead acquisition of four F-35 aircraft for Japan.
Mission Systems and Training received $700 million for two additional Littoral Combat Ships increasing our LCS work backlog to six vessels.
And our Aegis team successful won a competitive award for the Combat Systems Engineering Agent program.
This award extends our multi-decade legacy and leadership on this important missile defense system.
Finally our Space Systems team win a long-lead contract to begin construction of two additional spacecraft on the Cerberus Military Satellite Program for the U.S.
Air Force.
This award brings our backlog to four spacecraft and on this critical national program that provides worldwide Early Warning Detection of Ballistic Missile launches.
These new awards and our backlog of future work are direct indicators of the closed alignment of our portfolio of products with customer strategic priorities and requirements and serve as a foundation for the future.
Turning to operational performance our five business areas continue to execute with exceptional focus and skill in providing critical services and products to customers.
While the quarter contained numerous accomplishments Id like to highlight two notable successes and provide a brief update on F-35 key events.
First as part of the national strategy to pivot to the Asia-Pacific region our Littoral Combat Ship The USS Freedom began its deployment to Southeast Asia.
We are extremely proud to have our ship chosen to do the inaugural deployment of LCS class vessels to Southeast Asia.
It is a testament to the maturity and capabilities of our innovative multi-mission ship and we look forward to her contributions to the seventh fleet.
While visiting leaders have specific command this quarter I had the opportunity to go on board freedom while she was docked in Pearl Harbor en route to Southeast Asia.
The pride of the crew and their ship and her capabilities was inspirational and only service to reinforce our critical role to provide these revolutionary warships to the navy.
The next key operational achievement was accomplished by our Space Systems business with their successful launch of the second SBIRS satellite for the U.S.
Air Force.
I had the privilege to be at the launch site in Florida in March with our customer to watch the event.
This satellite joins the currently deployed SBIRS spacecraft and expands the constellation of Early Warning Missile Detection satellite.
In this era of increasing proliferation a Ballistic Missile threats from rogue nations SBIRS provides vital intelligence and defense warning to our country and allies.
We are honored to be providing these critical national assets to our country and look forward to delivering the remaining four satellites in our backlog.
Moving to F-35 key accomplishments in the quarter were deployment of C-12 Aircraft to Nellis Air Force Base for operational testing and evaluation and completion of the first operational mission conduced by Air Force pilots.
The first operational short take-off vertical landing at Marine Corps Air Station Yuma successful completion of the 3-Year Wing Flutter Testing Program on the C-12 version with clean results and the first night time vertical landing of Starbow aircraft at Patuxent River Naval Air Station.
These accomplishments highlight the increasing maturity of the program.
We are providing increasing levels of aircraft capability and performance to the multiple service branches to enable expansion of pilot training and operational evaluation of this revolutionary platform.
Id like to now turn to the status of DoD budgets.
Since we last spoke in January the President signed into law the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2013.
This act extended funding for the operations of all federal agencies through September 30 2013.
It included full-year appropriations for defense military construction and veterans affairs.
This continued resolution will fund all other government agencies at last years level.
With the approved FY13 DoD appropriations of $527 billion our key programs continue to be supported and funded under the full-year appropriation.
Examples of that support were seeing with the appropriations increasing C-130J procurement to 16 aircraft from previously planned level of seven and spending of almost $400 million for the continuation of the Meets program.
However funding appropriated through this act remains subject to the automatic budget cuts outlined under sequestration.
We are encouraged by recent alternative budget proposals offered by various members of Congress to modify or eliminate the level of DoD budget reductions required under current sequestration.
One version proposes no additional budget reductions to Defense budget levels while another version proposes approximately $250 billion of reduction from Defense over the next 9 years.
Adoption of either of these competing budget versions would represent a significant improvement over the current $500 billion in budget cuts required under sequestration.
Beyond FY13 actions the President submitted his fiscal year 2014 budget proposal earlier this month.
The proposed level for the baseline FY14 defense budget was outlined at $526 billion a level essentially equal to the current FY13 appropriations level.
Initial insight into program priorities contained in the Presidents FY14 request showed strong alignment in budget support for a number of our key programs such as the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter Littoral Combat Ship missile defense systems and higher quantities of C-130J aircraft.
It should be noted that the FY14 proposed budget does not account for the implications of sequestration that went into effect in March 2013.
The impact of sequestration on our business has been minimal to date and Bruce will provide some modeling sensitivity on our 2013 financial outlook of sequestration in FY13.
Turning to the global security environment rising tensions and threats on the Korean peninsula coupled with ongoing conflict and instability in the Middle East only reinforce the complexity of maintaining global security a need for a spectrum of flexible and effective products to help maintain global security is growing more acute each day.
Lockheed Martin products are foundational assets in the preservation of global security.
Recent deployment of our products by the Department of Defense into the Southeast Asia region include placing F-22 fighters in South Korea and deploying the THAAD missile defense systems on Guam The Littoral Combat Ship with the 7th fleet and Aegis Missile Defense System.
These deployments highlight the key strategic value and determine capabilities of our unparalleled products to national defense.
Our portfolio remains in direct alignment with this global security mission and we look forward to providing critical defense and security solutions to domestic and international customers.
I want to turn briefly to our focus and activity with the international customers this quarter.
Expansion of international revenues remains a key component of our corporate strategy and we are on a path to grow international sales from approximately 17% of total revenues last year to at least 20% in the next few years.
As weve outlined previously key drivers of that expected growth will be higher levels of international work on the F-35 with growing levels of aircraft deliveries to our partner countries plus C-130J aircraft F-16 aircraft and missile defense solutions such as THAAD and Aegis.
Direct and country interaction and listening to the needs of customers are essential components to successful international relationship building.
This quarter I had the opportunity to meet with key customers in Israel United Arab Emirates Saudi Arabia and Italy.
Discussion centered on how our corporation can help them with their diverse spectrum of security needs that range from fighter aircraft to missile defense systems to cyber security.
While in Saudi Arabia we inaugurated our new in-country headquarters that will enable development of partnerships to create products and enhance our offerings in technology aerospace and security sectors.
A common theme of the meetings was we universally held believe that the global security environment is only becoming more complex and there is a wide spread desire to utilize many of our products and leading edge solutions to solve their most critical requirements.
Before I ask Bruce to give you some color and details on our financial performance I want to close my comments by providing some insight into three emerging technologies and adjacent pursuits of the corporation.
As we have outlined in the past one of the new technologies we are examining is in the sustainable and alternative energy generation field through a process called ocean thermal energy conversion or OTEC.
This technology uses the temperature variations of ocean depth layers to power thermal exchange equipment and generate electricity.
We have created unique intellectual property and expertise in thermal exchange and recently signed a memorandum of understanding to utilize our intellectual property and begin exploration of the design feasibility of a plant to generate electricity on a commercial scale.
This agreement is expected to lead a contract that will fund our development efforts for 10-megawatt pilot plant anticipated to be located of the coast of Southern China.
We were excited about the potential future prospects of this technology to generate clean renewable electricity.
The second adjacent market Ill give you an update on is our expanding commercial aircraft pilot training activities using simulators from our Sim-Industries business that develops and manufactures full-motion and fixed-based civil aviation flight simulators for airline customers and independent pilot training centers worldwide.
As a leader in commercial simulators for Boeing 737 and Airbus A320 aircraft Sim recently extended this product line with simulators for the Airbus A330 and Boeing 767 Boeing 777 and Boeing 787 aircraft.
Sim industries broad product offering enabled us to offer a very affordable training solution to the U.S.
Air Forces next generation KC-46 Tanker Program.
These growing activities and opportunities in this area demonstrate the synergies that exist between the unique low-cost commercial offerings from Sim industries and their applications to future DoD programs.
The air force is currently evaluating competitive bids for pilot training on the KC-46 Tanker with the decision on the winning bidder expected later this year.
The third new business opportunity area Ill highlight has recently emerged from our advanced material studies group and is in the area of water purification.
We recently received a patent for Perforene material which is a molecular filtration solution designed to provide clean potable water.
The Perforene membrane features holes that are one nanometer or less in a graphing sheet and are small enough to trap sodium chlorine and other ions from sea water while dramatically improving the flow through of water molecules.
This flow through was 100 times better than current reverse osmosis systems making it more effective at desalination at a fraction of the cost.
Access to clean drinking water is becoming more critical as the global population continues to grow.
We believe that this simple and affordable solution has a potential to be a game changer for the water industry.
We are also investigating other applications for Perforene such as biopharmaceutical separations and removal of chemical substances and compounds from water used oil and gas wells.
The pursuits Ive highlighted today are only a few of innovative and expanding portfolio of intellectual property and products that offer future growth prospects for this corporation.
We will keep you apprised of our progress in these areas.
Ill now ask Bruce to go through some of the details of our financial performance and then well open up the line for questions.
Bruce? Thanks Marillyn.
Good morning everyone.
As I highlight our key financial accomplishments please follow along with the web charts that we included with our earnings release today.
Lets start with chart 3 an overview of the quarter.
Sales in the quarter were $11.1 billion down slightly from last year but ahead of our expectations at the beginning of this year.
Segment operating margin was strong at 12.1% a 20 basis point improvement over the first quarter last year.
Our earnings per share were $2.33 up 15% from last year.
We generated $2.1 billion in cash from operations and we repurchased 5.1 million shares in the quarter.
So I think we are off to a good start in 2013.
Chart 4 shows our sales for the first quarter this year versus last year.
Aeronautic sales decreased by about 14% compared with last year.
However this was slightly better than our expectations when we spoke in January as we had higher aircraft deliveries than planned in the quarter.
Our sales in the other four business areas were also stronger than expected particularly in Missiles and Fire Control which also benefited from additional product deliveries and volume in the quarter.
I should point out that with the implementation of sequestration delayed until March 1 we saw minimal impact for the quarter but would expect that impact to grow as we move forward.
Ill discuss sequestration in greater detail in subsequent charts.
Moving to chart 5 in our first quarter segment operating results our segment operating profit was comparable to last years level with the increase in margin offsetting the impact of lower sales in the quarter.
We continue to have strong program execution and are taking appropriate cost reduction actions as needed.
Turning to chart 6 on earnings per share EPS in the quarter was 15% higher than a year-ago driven primarily by the lower pension expense as a result of our contributions at the end of last year and the benefits of the R&amp;D tax credit.
You remember that we mentioned on the last call that the first quarter would have the benefit of the full-year 2012 credit as well as the 2013 first quarter credit and thats what were seeing here.
On pension adjusted basis our EPS grew to $2.56 in the quarter.
On the chart 7 well discuss our cash from operations in the quarter.
As expected our cash flow in the quarter was very strong at nearly $2.1 billion more than $1.5 billion higher than the level last year.
Although last years level was reduced by roughly $500 million pension contribution.
We not only had strong operational performance but also had the benefit of a $540 million tax refund in the quarter resulting from our pension contributions at the end of last year.
We expect that cash generated this quarter will be the highest for the year as we have both pension contributions and tax payments plan in future quarters that did not occur on the first quarter.
On chart 8 well discuss our cash returned to shareholders.
We returned over $800 million to shareholders this quarter through our share repurchases and industry leading dividend yield.
The level of share repurchases was almost doubled what we did in the first quarter last year and dividends were higher as a result of our 15% increase last September.
Moving onto chart 9 well discuss our updated view of the guidance we provided on the last call.
You recall that our January guidance did not consider the impacts of sequestration.
Since then sequestration did become effective on March 1 but as I said earlier its implementation had minimal impact on our performance this quarter.
Unless revised by Congress however we would expect to see the effect of sequestration having impact throughout the rest of this year.
We try to model these potential impacts by assuming a peanut butter spread of expected reductions to our U.S.
government business awarded with FY13 funds.
Or said differently we do not assume any flexibility on our customers part to favor one programs budget over another.
Using that approach we estimate a potential $825 million impact to our sales in 2013.
With the strong results of each of our five business areas in the first quarter though we believe our current sales outlook remains within the guidance range weve provided in January and Ill explain that in more detail on the next chart.
Chart 10 shows the methodology we use to develop our estimate of the impact of sequestration on our 2013 sales.
At the mid point of our guidance we would expect just over a three quarters of our sales or about $35 billion to be generated from our year end 2012 backlog and we would expect sales to non-U.S.
government customers from orders received this year to be around $2 billion or so neither of these amounts is expected to be directly impacted by sequestration however our original estimate of $8.25 billion of U.S.
government sales from new orders this year is expected to be impacted by sequestration.
As we modeled the estimated impacts over the next three quarters we project the reduction of around $825 million in sales primarily impacting IS&amp;GS and MST.
On chart 11 we provide our updated guidance.
Assuming the modeling from the previous chart and factoring in our better than planned results in the first quarter we now expect sales will be near the lower end of our guidance range.
Even with the lower sales expectation we are maintaining our side with operating profit and cash guidance reflecting our growing confidence on our performance for the rest of 2013 and we are maintaining our earnings per share guidance range of $8.80 to $9.10 that will emphasize that this range does not include restructuring charges if any associated with sequestration as they are unpredictable at this time.
And finally we have our summary on chart 12.
The first quarter represents the strong start to the year with better than expected sales volume and strong segment operating profit and cash from operations.
These results continued for a quite strong program execution the proactive cost reduction measures were taking and the strength of our portfolio.
And we continue to focus on actions and create value for our customers and our shareholders.
With that were ready for your questions Aly? (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning and good performance.
Hey Joe.
Marillyn I actually had a question for you on the extensive comments you gave on the non-defense portion of your business which is small.
But it seems like youre targeting quite a bit for growth and really just from two angles one because as you know this has been a tough thing for defense companies to doing the path to diversify during a downturn.
So the two questions are one in your approach to the market how are you orient in the company to really to impact commercial markets which is really a bit of difficult thing for companies to do? And I just mean the difference in the customer base relative to the government did some I guess comments there will be good.
And then secondly from a risk standpoint what kind of capital are you putting at risk and how are you considering that going forward? Thanks.
Thanks for the question Joe.
This first half I would say the things that you are seeing coming forward are things that weve been investing in for a number of years.
As a company we are a technology leader we often talk about saying that we do hard stuff we do difficult things and try to work on big things that are affecting the global environment the global security environment.
So we are always investing in the future in that regard.
And we have 60 000 scientists and engineers that are working on things not only on our core products and services today but also looking at ways to give our adversaries and advantage or look at new areas that we can help in global security needs.
So even as our customer budgets decline were going to continue to invest in these new technology so we think thats really important that we do that.
In terms of [ordering] as to commercial markets I would say that the things that were doing right now are things that  as I said weve been investing in for sometime and while it is a different customer base they are large projects much like we do large projects across the corporation.
And so to the risk these are not big needle movers in the near term.
We are not looking at a large cash investment weve been investing for example the Perforene and the nanotechnologies for the past seven years.
Weve been investing in the Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion.
Weve been working on since the 70s.
We increased our investment in past five years but its measured and disciplined investment that we make in R&amp;D just as we do across the business.
So from that standpoint its a matter of not putting any capital at risk but that we do expect these to be fully funded.
In fact if you look at OTEC that final plant will be fully funded by our partner as we bring our intellectual property forward in that arena.
And in terms of the Perforene we got a patent but we are now looking for opportunities to partner and taking that one forward.
So we partnered with companies in the commercial market thats what gives us the capability to go into those new markets and thats how well approach them.
Our next question comes from Robert Spingarn of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Marillyn and Bruce a very nice quarter; if I could just go back to the sequester discussion for a moment I was going to ask Bruce if you could give us a little bit more color on why we dont see more of an earnings or margin impact from the lower sales or is it simply thats what embedded in the range.
And then more specifically Bruce on your modelling discussion you talked about peanut buttering the GFY-13 funding that impacts this year.
But what percentage of GFY funding for Lockheed is beyond 2013.
I would imagine with the long cycle nature of your product lines it could be a large percentage?  Yeah.
So let me try to address both those questions Rob.
So why profit and cash are not necessarily impacted or why we didnt change the guidance for those two elements.
First is we did do for sales.
You know a lot of it is because of the first quarter quite honestly and obviously we were higher in the first quarter for sales as well but we had good results pretty much across the board.
All five business areas are planned for them in terms of both sales and operating profit.
I think as we look forward for the next three quarters we do expect to see some pressures for the reasons that I described from sequestration.
As I said earlier that not played out at this point.
But we do expect them to happen in the next three quarters.
As we look out for the planned risk retirements and what weve accomplished in the first quarter we think those are stronger as we said here today but maybe we thought that be at the start of this year and thats the reason we didnt change the profit guidance.
Cash flow obviously $2.1 billion in the first quarter very strong stronger than we had expected honestly and thats the other reason why we think thats going to carry after the rest of this year as well thats the reason we didnt come down off of our cash as well.
I think your second question was so how much of the FY13 carries over in for next year? I made the comment Rob that the sales we got from our backlog at the end of 2012 was about 77%.
So think of that is new see the FY our calendar year 2013 sales originating 77% of which come from the 2012 backlog thats not an unusual pattern for us at all.
Ill say next year we would expect it to look very similar to that.
So you should think of that as probably 25-ish may be a little less than that percent of our sales in 2014 will need to come from orders received in 2014 and manifested into sales in 2014.
So that pattern as I look back over time has been a fairly consistent one not at all unusual for what were experiencing in 2013.
Our next question comes from Rob Stallard of Royal Bank of Canada.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hi Rob.
Good morning.
A quick question on capital deployment do you expect that to be more consolidation in the defense industry as we see [the year] is playing out and would you see Lockheed being participating in that? And also to follow-on from your comments Marillyn about these adjacent markets would you potentially be interested in acquisitions in line with more diversified areas not just defense? In terms of consolidations on the defense industry I think you know as the spending contracts we would expect that there would be more consolidation its just at that level and its been communicated to us by our customers I think that at the prime level its about right in terms of the number of companies that are prime so were probably get to second and third tier or below but we will see consolidation.
But I certainly expect that because the economics will dictate that with the contraction of the budgets.
In terms of acquisitions and to broadening our acquisitions were going to stay into the near adjacencies.
We prefer to do joint ventures and teaming where it makes sense and well continue to look at our acquisition strategy as String of Pearls approach and look at what will line up with the capability that we need and the markets that we want to moved into.
Our next question comes from Doug Harned of Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hi Doug.
Id like to understand how youre thinking about the longer-term top-line outlook because on one hand if I look at the backlog so to say played out in this quarter it means as I look at it IS and GS appear to the most worried sum in that obviously you could get it by sequestration.
When you talk about contraction its in the budget.
It sounds like you are looking at a shrinkage overall in your top-line and if I pair that up against the new ventures youre talking about going into I mean I know that OTEC and the reverse osmosis purification program this were going on 15 years ago.
Are you looking at reading those forward more as a substitute for a contraction in the defense revenues? So if something happen technologically thats caused us to lead forward and become a more prominent effort.
Thanks for the question Doug.
Just to address where we see our growth we do know that our core domestic defense business will flatten potentially decline.
So what we are focused on is growing our international business that is where we expect that to offset that and continue to grow.
As Ive said in previous calls and today as well we are currently at 17% of our sales.
We expect to grow that to 20% over the next few years but we will continue to focus on where that demand is from missile defense or [attack area] or immobility a lot of our C4ISR satellite technology.
Its a whole range of products but it continues to be a strong demand for internationally.
In terms of these adjacencies and some that I talked about today these are not needle movers in the near term.
These are really those that we believe are long-term with large application potentially in these technologies and they are not new to the horizon for us.
As I said we have been working on them for a number of years.
The fact that some of them have come to fruition we are dealing with different partners and different customers and so they are once that have come about in the last few months that have come on the screen and we thought it would be appropriate to share with you what is happening in those but our top line growth will be on our core and near adjacencies both domestically and internationally in the business.
Doug I might add just a little bit.
I think on your last question you asked about the technology aligned at this point in time and I think thats probably a fair characterization.
I think they have aligned here.
Weve been experimenting with some of the early materials that led up to the Propane products for probably the last seven years or so through our advanced materials organization and that is  whats just come out here as Marillyn said earlier weve been doing that literally since the 1970s.
We actually had a pilot plant in Hawaii off the Coast of Hawaii thats been working as much much smaller scale than the one were talking about building going forward weve had that operating for probably the last five years or so.
So some of the technologies has come together some has just been ability to scale those technologies particularly in the OTEC side of it.
And so I think thats what were seeing its sort of the combination have been coincidentally theyre all sort of materializing here at the same time; frankly very opportune time for us because thats where we are seeing some pressure with our largest domestic customer.
Our next question comes from Jason Gursky of Citi.
Please go ahead.
All right good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just a clarification question and then a more medium one on the adjacencies can you talk about where you are from the percentage of revenue today and what your targets are? And then is this a question of potentially selling these intellectual property rights which you developed here? And then on the needy question Bruce can you talk a little bit about the cadence for cash for the rest of the year giving all the moving pieces with the pension contribution the tax payments.
And then we also like think you have got the DoD moving from net pay of 15 days and 29 days Im just wondering if thats going to have any impact on the cadence of the cash for the rest of the year? Yeah Jason good question.
Let me try Ill answer both and see if Marillyn wants to add anything to what I would come up with.
So on the adjacencies how big you should think of this being fairly small may be literally as below 5% of our overall sales right now were hoping to grow that some going forward the biggest elements weve got right now are in our energy business as well as our cyber security business and those are two that weve talked about fairly consistently on the calls.
You should think of those as again being tough Ill say low single digits percent of the overall sales in the corporation not into growth those going forward.
The products that Marillyn described in her prepared remarks will just add to that but not significantly Ill say over the next five-year period of time.
We are just really trying to convey the message that we like to think and we do difficult in all these projects that we are talking about have difficult in their middle name if nothing else and we think we are riding our capabilities and the innovative capabilities of our workforce with products or with problems that need to be solved on a big scale and thats what we are trying to see it for you.
As far as the cadence for the cash Im glad you asked that and I hoping to work that at some point of conversation anyway so obviously we are not going to do $2 billion a quarter when we are out looking $4 billion for the year.
You should think we had no pension contributions and a tax refund in the first quarter of this year.
We should be  over the next three quarters we should have pension payments in the second quarter and third quarter.
Well actually had two tax payments just the way the calendar lines up in the second quarter and then the tax payments in the third quarter and fourth quarter.
So what you should see especially in the second quarter is we will have cash flow down considerably I mean probably to the point of on a free cash flow basis slightly better than positive were hoping but down its pretty significantly.
And then I would expect it to grow up to the $800 million $900 million in the last two quarters or so is what the expectation as we said here.
Youve asked about the payment cycle and so forth.
And Ill tell you weve and I think the industry in large are seeing actually pretty good performance out of payment officers where we get the most the bulk of our collections from our customer.
Theyve been paying typically quicker than sort of the statutory rates that have been paid in the past.
What I am watching for going forward in particular Jason is the effects of workforce furloughs on the part of the U.S.
government and particularly is that affects our paying officers.
And so you can imagine a scenario where people will be furlough I think the current pick in the government is one day for 14 weeks in the months ahead.
And the question is so is everyone paying contractors sufficient in four days as they are in five I got to believe thats not going to be the case.
I will say though thats expected to be an impact in the fiscal year and not necessary for the calendar year because obviously the fiscal year went in September and we would expect that the next calendar not to had those sorts of furloughs of leases we said here today.
Our next question comes from Rich Safran of Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask you about book-to-bill.
So if I did it right looks like a book-to-bill of roughly 0.6.
And I think thats about what you did one quarter last year? So I thought maybe you could comment on expectations for book-to-bill this year and how you feel about full-year book-to-bill being either one times or higher?  Yeah Ill try that one Rich.
So I think your math is right.
It was a 0.6 book-to-bill.
Actually as we look at the first quarter orders we actually did better than we expected to do pretty much across the board for orders for all our business areas.
And in particular I will say I think that is one of the reasons why some of our short cycle businesses like IS &amp; GS and sort of the services component of MST actually faired better in sales in the first quarter because we did actually receive slightly higher orders in the quarter than wed expected to.
Going forward I think second quarter is going to be the lowest quarter from a backlog perspective of the year and then we would expect it to rise thereafter.
So we expect second half orders to be higher than first half and the fourth quarter to be the highest quarter of all the quarters if you will.
And thats our typical pattern anyway.
There is a couple of things Ill point to that you might be watching out for in the second quarter.
We have a few high dollar items mostly within our large business areas.
So we would expect to get at the second order for close the second order for 18 aircraft for S-16 aircraft I should say for Iraq probably get in order for couple of C-130s from Saudi Arabia.
There is a possibility well close on the Indian C-130 a second and C1-30 by for India for six aircraft.
We still have six international aircraft and launch six for F-35 that yet to be sort of fully funded via under an undefinitized contractual action or UCA that we would hope would happen in the second quarter.
We should get additional funding for even greater aircraft on LRIP-8 for F-35.
And then switching to MST we should be getting finalization of the MH-60 Denmark helicopter contract and some ground radar business within MST.
So those are sort of the dollar awards that you want to watch the high dollar awards.
Strategically there is a couple of big items as well almost all of them within MST in the second quarter.
So the Air Missile Defense Radar AMDR program we expect to be awarded in the second quarter as was space side this is the sort of the Space Debris Tracking radar if you will from earth that we expect to happen in the second quarter.
And then lastly within MST the KC-46 Training activity that Marillyn mentioned in her prepared remarks is also something that we would expect to happen.
Either late in the second quarter early third the rest of the year we are hopeful obviously we got some missile defense products pack reason for a number of customers within the Middle East.
And then recently if you saw some of the FMS activity just came out we are hopeful to have some weapons on F-15s and some capabilities for helicopters in Saudi Arabia as well as the potential to sell additional F-16s to the UAE.
So whether that one will happen between now and end of the year it might be a little bit sporty but were focused on that and hopeful that that could occur.
I should mention probably that weve also got activities within Singapore and South Korea for the F-35; again not sure if those will happen this year or not but they are on the custom ones that were watching very closely.
Our next question comes from George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning Bruce.
Hi George.
One little one and then one Ill put together.
You mentioned a contractual settlement on the F-16 in the quarter.
Could you kind of ballpark how big that was? And then a macro question is if you look at historically defense outlays and track them against military contractors very rarely does the military contractors vary a heck of a lot from the numbers and if you look at 2014 the outlays for procurement in R&amp;D probably going to be down at least 10%.
So I guess I asked the question why wont your revenues be down similar to what you would expect Yeah so George Ill take those.
So F-16 the contractual resolution you should think of that being in and nothing sure to approach 10 but think of it in the 10ish million dollar range maybe little less than that.
So not a particularly huge item but one thats been outstanding for quite a while and were delighted to have and finally settle now; I literally think this is one that is probably been around.
As I have quite a few of these contractual resolutions we have had settled in the past for probably close to a decade.
So it is good to get them behind us.
As far as the outlays youre looking at the defense outlays versus the contractor you know what I will remind you again that 61% of our sales roughly last year were from the DoD.
So there is a full almost 40% thats non-DoD obviously the biggest component that is the international we do expect as Marillyn said earlier to grow the international component of our business which would help to maybe explain why we dont get down to 10% you are talking about there.
And then what I would suggest George is that even within that reduction in the procurement R&amp;D you have to look at the individual programs within the DoD budget because not every partner within the DoD budget is going down 10% and it ties into the priorities of the customer and our alignment of our portfolio with those priorities.
So we would expect the F-35 to grow our air and missile defense programs to grow and help to offset that on the international side obviously as we mentioned earlier the air and missile defense components especially growing over the next few years.
It helps to offset that reduction.
I think youre seeing in the  and sort of the high level map that you described.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong>  Thank you.
I want to ask more of an operational question and for example if we look at aeronautics Marillyn you were able to hold the decline for example on the C-130 to about $10 million despite seeing a $175 million decline in revenues which is pretty impressive sort of action.
And if we look across some of the other businesses despite difficult revenue numbers the margins were pretty darn good.
Could you talk a little bit about with some detail on some of the things youre doing whether its head count or for space and you know because no matter what happens with the sequester.
I think there is just going to be a real utmost pressure on the business for a while?  Howard were definitely focused on operational performance so I think you characterize it well in terms of talking about it being operational because weve been we not only are we driving improvement even if we reduce the rate on the C-130J we are able to hold our position relative to profit on the program.
So I think youre seeing the results of that and at the same time were very much across our business working on reducing cost and increasing efficiencies and productivity in the business; so a lot of activities not just operationally with our particular program but all of that flows through to all of our programs.
So the things that were doing in getting out of facilities and reducing our overheads and the efficiencies that come with just having a razor focus on cost across every element of the business is helping us to bring in better performance.
And then within the C-130J I mean as it moves through its courses you have a learning curve and so continuing to have productivity improvements as we continue with the rate of that program.
Howard just a interesting little [titbits] there.
And my aeronautics friends have pointed this off to me as weve done reviews with Marillyn and the leadership team there.
Weve actually for the past few C-130 since weve started building at 24 aircraft a year the hourly rate or the hours it takes to assemble that C-130 is were actually performing better than we were  when we were delivering 34 aircrafts a year.
So thats no small feat when you are on number what 4500 aircraft not 4500 2500 aircraft through the line and at this stage of the product development or product manufacturing cycle that weve been able to make that those are real live reductions and its one of several instances that we can point to there were taking the right actions particularly on a manufacturing side of bringing down the product cost in line with the shrinking volume that were seeing.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
First one is a classification Bruce I think you had previously talked about $8 billion in backlog and in the year and cant recall that was with sequestration without and if that number had changed? Yes so Myles I think what I have tried to key up is that we always expect that we take a downturn in the first quarter probably get further down a second quarter I think at the start of the year I said we hope to get back around the $80 billion mark that still obviously a goal that we have but I think its going to be tougher assuming that the next three quarters are hit by sequestration.
So those numbers you remember them right it was $80 billion.
But Ill say thats probably a tougher  as we said here today because that did not compare the effects of sequestration.
And of course we would think that orders in the fiscal year since we had more of our orders obviously coming from that fiscal year 2013 funds would be more significantly impacted them with sales in calendar year 2013 because less of those come from fiscal year 2013 fund.
So it would be a bigger number than the $825 million of sales impact is what I would expect from an orders perspective.
But were not yet at this point giving up on that and hopefully as quarters go by I also have a better idea what that looks like and well be able to update that for you as we go through the year.
Our next question comes from Cai von Rumohr of Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Yes thank you and great performance.
Thank you.
Bruce one of the things you highlighted was that EACs were better than expected.
It was 470 35% of sales thats substantially higher than its been in any of the last couple of years.
Where do you expect it to be for the year? And two questions give us some color on the quarterly pattern as you did with the cash flow? And then where notionally can this number go in the future as it likely to come down than more normal levels or is it still sustainable? Thanks so much.
(inaudible).
So EACs at least as I look at Cai we actually were a little bit lower in terms of profit adjustments in the first quarter of this year as compared to what we did last year.
So think of it still in the sort of mid 30-ish range but slightly less I think about $15 million bucks or $20 million bucks less this year versus last year.
U.S.
for sort of the pattern going forward we would expect to be within probably the 30% to 35% range each and every quarter going forward probably down a little bit from last year overall but of course the sales and the segment profit are expected to be down this year compared to last year so thats probably following suite for the lower volumes that you see there.
Nothing really jumps out as I look at it as far as spikiness as we sit here today in terms of the pattern going forward that obviously changes as we do risk retirements we do them when we retire the risk not when we necessarily plan to do the risk.
So when I describe the pattern going forward its when we plan to do but we can obviously do better or worse than that.
We really dont have a reason to believe to the future necessarily going to look any differently in the past.
I know thats been the subject of a lot of riding but it is the same methodology weve used consistently for a long long time and that has been our pattern.
Weve got to describe that over time I think last year was the best odd in a couple of quarters because we had some large contractual resolutions that sort of jumped up that were are not in our historical levels.
But going forward what we see is still sort of in that 30% to 35% range and not much change for that Cai von.
And then you mentioned that it was better than you expected how much has that changed? You mentioned that was a plus for the full year to offset the lower sales.
Is that how much better does it look now approximately? I dont know I have got the numbers at the top of my head Cai.
But I would say we were not expecting.
We got the benefit of both volume obviously.
I mean I think on the last call I teed up that we are probably going to be down a billion dollars year-over-year in the first quarter.
We ended up being down what about $800 million.
We again across the board all five business areas were better in sales better in profit.
The sales obviously brought volume in terms of profit on those sales.
If I had to get some number out probably offset maybe about 50-ish plus million dollars is probably what I would guess that happened earlier and somewhat higher than we had expected kind and thats a little bit off the top of my head and well see what that looks like going forward.
But again I dont see a huge pattern shipped as we go forward in the next three quarters from what we did in the first quarter.
Our next question comes from David Strauss of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hi David.
Good morning.
Bruce going through your sequestration map as it relates to 2014 is there anything besides international that would offset overall revenues potentially being down in the high single digit range? And then Marillyn a question for you in terms of sizing the business for sequestration you obviously highlighted here further restructuring of IS&amp;GS.
Can you just talk about maybe broadly how you view the business size wise from a head count perspective if sequestration does go through in full effect? Thanks.
Yes.
So David you asked me the first part of that question.
So again what I try to key up and I wont just simply repeat myself but we do tend to have a very similar pattern as far as the amount of sales that we derived from backlog year-over-year.
So as weve talked in the past our long cycle businesses Aeronautics and Space in particular get 90% plus of their in the following year from the backlog from prior years that goes down.
Probably IS and GS is our lowest business that gets in terms of the percentage of sales that are derived from previous years backlog.
I think about thats probably 65-ish percent or so 35% comes from new orders turning into new sales in the year.
The thing about 2014 that I think we all have to remember is 2013 is the peanut butter or across the board cuts.
2014 with the new Presidents budget there is no peanut butter cut so they can actually cut whatever  Ill say aligned with the strategy starting in government fiscal year 2014 thats different then what we saw or what we will see in fiscal year 2013 and where I would offer up this is sort of the proof of the putting or whether or not your portfolio aligns to the governments strategic interest or not in terms of the DoDs priorities.
We think ours does  we think ours has more staying power in that environment than in a peanut butter environment and thats what I think David I think is maybe all that will understood that I think it does make a difference as we look into FY14 versus FY13.
Hi Marillyn.
So you address the sizing of the business for sequestration.
Now were going to size the businesses as we get more clarity from our customer.
Frankly its difficult to forecast I know Bruce talked a lot about modeling but it really was  the best we could do to model what that impact would be until we get better insight on their planning for sequestration will be difficult to say which programs get hit and therefore which program what kind of head count might be modified accordingly.
So there is a lot of uncertainty here.
As Bruce said though we look at the budget request for FY2014 it does certainly support not only the national security strategy but it also very much aligns with our portfolio.
Well continue to invest in new technology well continue to drive down our cost and I think we remain well positioned to succeed in this environment going forward.
Aly if I could maybe one last question please.
Our final question comes from Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I said I want to go one in.
Hey Bruce can you discuss a little bit about the sales before you had said sales for the quarter would be about a $1 billion below and then you came in a little bit better on aircraft deliveries but it looks like almost across the board MST and MFC IS &amp; GS space all running ahead of what you said you would be doing in the 10-K in terms of the full-year.
So is there a reason why there was so much front ended and what is that mean for the progression of the different quarters?  Yes good question Sam.
So I try to tee that up I think what Cai von asked the earlier question that they maybe more higher in the first quarter as expected.
I teed up being about a $1 billion down we actually have been $200 million down so there is $800 million of goodness there.
I think if it is a couple hundred million within Aeronautics probably for a couple of C-130s earlier delivered than planned.
The rest of those volumes Missile &amp; Fire Control was up on just a percentage basis like 13% year-over-year in the first quarter.
Most of that was the facing or timing of deliveries of products there.
So think of it is in particular tactical missiles JASSM missiles the Multiple Launch Rocket System activities there.
Thats earlier than planned but not necessarily upper for the year as we look at this at the end of the first quarter.
</strong>Ill say we were very pleasantly surprised in the first quarter I mentioned earlier that we were going to  that we actually exceeded our orders expectations in the first quarter even though youre looking at that as a 0.6 book-to-bill ratio that was actually slightly better than expected.
And on our short cycle business we think that did translate into higher sales in the quarter as well.
So not sure if that was last throughout the year thats one of the reasons we put the guidance out that we did but were pleased to have that in fact in the first quarter I think some of that is because we frankly saw Ill say a sense of urgency to get things under contract prior to the end of last year when we thought sequestration was going to start in early January I think we experienced a similar phenomenon at the end of February when the customer thought that sequestration was going to get in effect on March 1 a number of customers thought that obligated funds would that be subject to sequestration if obligated prior to that.
I think we got bit of a rush to kind of get those under contract I think were seeing the benefits of that on our short cycle businesses.
So maybe just to finish off my long dialogue here but going forward the next few quarters I think our sales levels are going to be similar in the second quarter and third quarter to what we experienced in the first quarter maybe down slightly because sequestrations largest impacts at least as we look for the rest of the year going to occur in the second quarter and third quarters because youre kind of squeezing the full governments fiscal year with sequestration cuts into the last two quarters of the fiscal year.
So for us that the second quarter and third quarter of the calendar year I think well see bigger reductions there I do think fourth quarter will be the largest quarter of the year going forward even with the potential reductions that have yet to be announced in fiscal year 2014 from sequestration.
So thats sort of how I think of the  again the next three quarters similar may be a little bit down because the sequestration to the first quarter and then a pop up in the fourth quarter.
So to wrap up Id like to thank you all for joining the call today and for your questions and we look forward to speaking with you in July.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude todays conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day.
And welcome everyone to the Lockheed Martin Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Todays call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Sahid and good morning.
Id like to welcome everyone to our second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Marillyn Hewson our Chief Executive Officer and President; and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Statements made in today's call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of Federal securities law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see today's press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Marillyn.
Thanks Jerry.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call today.
Before I begin I want to offer my appreciation and congratulations to our Lockheed Martin team for their continuing outstanding performance and the achievement of strong second quarter financial and operational results.
As we continue to operate in a dynamic and challenging environment their efforts and focus have our Corporation poised for continued success in delivering value to shareholders and solutions to customers.
While Bruce will cover the financials in more detail later Ill highlight some key financial achievements from the quarter that included growing earnings per share to $2.64 11% above last year's second quarter level expanding segment operating margin to a record level 13.4% and achieving an increase of 110 basis points above last year's level and generation of $600 million in cash from operations after making $750 million in pension contributions.
Our continued strong cash flow is foundational to our cash deployment strategy to generate value to shareholders through share repurchases and dividend payments.
In the second quarter we repurchased over 4.5 million shares of our stock more than double the 2.2 million shares we pre-purchased in the second quarter last year.
We deployed $465 million for share repurchase through this quarter and paid slightly over $370 million in dividends.
Through the first half of 2013 we returned over $1.6 billion or approximately 70% of our free cash flow to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Overall I would characterize the second quarter financial performance as broad based across all business areas with results exceeding our expectations.
This strong performance enabled us to increase our 2013 financial guidance for operating profit earnings per share and cash from operations.
Bruce will cover some of the specific drivers for the improved performance in his briefing.
Before discussing other achievements this quarter Id like to outline the status of DOD budgets.
Since we last spoke in April not much has changed in the budget environment.
FY13 DOD budget appropriations have been enacted and incorporate the $37 billion in budget reductions required under sequestration.
Our sum budget reduction actions are being implemented by the government they have to implement most of the required spending cuts.
To date we have seen minimal impact to our portfolio programs with actions taken primarily limited to our shorter cycle business.
Customers are continuing to determine how they will implement the cuts mandated by sequestration which theyre required to do before the end of the fiscal year on September 30th.
And we are working closely with them as they explore host of potential scenarios.
For FY 14 Congressional deliberations on the budget are continuing.
The President proposed baseline defense budget remains at $526 billion without inclusion of the $52 billion in sequestration budget reduction that went into effect in March 2013.
The Department of Defense has finalized the Strategic Management Review that reexamined policy and program priorities to account for the sequestration imposed cuts.
This review will be used to aide DoD and continuing to formulate decisions on post-sequestration program and budgets for 2013 and 2014.
Our future budget levels remain uncertain the strategic need and support of number of our key programs such as the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter missile defense systems littoral combat ship and C-130J remains intact.
We will continue to work with customers and respond the changes as required when budget positions are finalized by the government.
Turning to the operational performance our five business areas continue to execute with exceptional focus and skill in providing critical products and services to customers.
Of the numerous accomplishments in the quarter Id like to highlight our continued success in missile defense activities provide a status of our expanding international work and finish with an update on the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program.
First with the growing threat of ballistic missile proliferation the need for proven reliable interceptor systems is becoming more acute daily providing defense system design to prevent the catastrophic damage that can be inflicted on civilian population centers and national infrastructure by offensive missile is essential to our nation and alliance.
Our portfolio of interceptor system consisting of Aegis Patriot THAAD and MEADS will provide layered coverage intended to defeat missile press post by world nations.
This quarter our Patriot 3 missile conducted a ripple fire test that successfully intercepted and destroyed two different targets at White Sands Missile Range.
This test was the first time a multi-target engagement was performed against both the Ballistic Missile Target and the Cruise Missile Target and it success provide a clear demonstration of the design maturity and increasing capability of the PAC-3 configuration.
In addition to the Patriot test events our Second Generation Aegis Ballistic Missile System successfully launched and guided a missile to engage and destroy a separating short-range Ballistic Missile Target.
This test validated the ability of the Aegis system to engage increasingly more challenging enemy threat.
It also marked an important milestone for the phased adaptive approach to missile defense in Europe.
This approach will combine a land based Aegis Ashore site in Romania with a traditional Aegis system aboard navy ships to provide unique missile defense protection on the continent.
These multiple successful launch again demonstrates the accuracy robustness and technological advances we are incorporating into our missile defense products.
These advances will ensure we can provide defense system to customers that can respond to an ever evolving threat.
With customers depending on these systems in their times of need it is an honor and responsibility to provide affordable and proven systems for our nation and alliance.
The next area I want to highlight is the continued expansion of our international business portfolio.
This quarter we secured new awards and made deliveries to new customers as we extended our international presence.
New awards were received across multiple business areas and consisted of aeronautics receipt I mean award for 18 additional F-16 aircraft for Iraq.
This award now extends the F-16 production line in Fort Worth Texas well into 2017.
Mission systems and training secured new award for Japan to upgrade Aegis Multi-Mission Signal Processor and other equipment on their Ballistic Missile Defense Ship.
Missiles and Fire Control received multiple international awards and clearly had order from Saudi Arabia to provide longbow fire control radars for attacked helicopters an order from Finland to provide integration support of our JASSM Missile into Finnish Fighter Aircraft an award to provide Patriot Missile Defense Equipment to Kuwait.
International deliveries in the quarter consisted of delivery of the first C130J Super Hercules aircraft to both the Republic of Tunisia and to Israel.
The delivery to Tunisia marks the first to an African country an entry into a new customer set.
Tunisia becomes the 15<sup>th</sup> country to select the proven low risk and affordable C130J for its air fleet requirement.
Expansion of international sales remains a key component of our corporate strategy.
And we're on a path to grow international content from approximately 17 total sales last year to at least 20% in the next few years.
Finally turning to the F-35 program multiple key accomplishments were achieved in the quarter.
And you can feel the momentum accelerating throughout the program.
Last month I attended the F-35 CEO roundtable in Fort Worth chaired by Frank Kendall the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Logistics and the programs status briefing by Lieutenant General Bogdan the F-35 Program Executive Officer.
Attendees included Representatives from all nine-partner nations and our teammates on the F-35 industry team.
The meeting reaffirmed just how much progress the F-35 team has made.
The customer expressed a renewed confidence in the future of the program and there is a strong sense of partnership across the whole team.
We know a lot of work still must be done and at the same time its clear that the tremendous efforts of the team are paying off.
One of the key accomplishments this quarter was the declaration by the Department of Defense of initial operating capability dates for all three F-35 variants 2015 for the Stovall aircraft 2016 for the CTOL aircraft and either late 2018 or early 2019 for the CD aircraft for the U.S.
Navy.
These dates reflect the confidence the customer has in the Lightning 2 and in our team.
Our job is to execute on the program to make sure we meet these critical dates for our customers and deliver the capabilities of this aircraft to our warfighters and allies.
Beyond the establishment of IOC dates the program achieved a number of key milestones in the second quarter including the delivery of the first F-35C carrier variant to the U.S.
Navy.
This delivery was important as all three variants are now at Elgin Air Force Base Florida where they're training pilots and maintenance personnel for this next generation fighter; completion of high angle of attack testing by the F-35A which is a key measure of aircraft maneuverability; completion of the first vertical take-off by an F-35B Stovall aircraft and the successful first in-flight missile launch by the F-35A variant.
Production activities continue to ramp up with delivery of 12 aircraft in the quarter.
And we remain solidly on track to deliver at least 36 aircraft this year.
The program tempo is accelerating and we currently have our 100 aircraft in final assembly.
In the area of customer relationships and contractual events we were pleased with the Australias reconfirmation of its plans to procure 100 CTOL joint strike fighters for its national defense.
We look forward to reviving these revolutionary aircraft to one of our key strategic partnering countries.
As we continued to work to bring down the cost of the aircraft we were pleased with reduction in acquisition and operating and support costs reflected in the 2012 Selected Acquisition Report issued by the DoD in June.
This was the first year the cost reduction was noted since program inception and we will work with the F-35 Joint Program Office to implement further cost savings measures to secure additional decreases in the total program cost.
The top priority of the government and the contractor team is to continue to cost effectively build and deliver the F-35s unprecedented fifth generation capabilities to the warfighter.
Ill now ask Bruce to go through some of the details of our financial performance and then well open it up the line for questions.
Thanks Marillyn.
Good morning everyone.
My comments will refer to the web charts that we included in our earnings release today if you would like to follow along.
Let's start with Chart 3 an overview of the quarter.
Sales in the quarter were $11.4 billion 4% below our results from a year ago but higher than our first quarter results and as with the first quarter were above our expectations.
Segment operating margin was as record 13.4% a 110 basis points improvement over the second quarter last year.
Our earnings per share were also up significantly to $2.64 an 11% increase over last years results.
We generated $623 million in cash from operations well above the outlook I provided in the first quarter.
We returned over $800 million of cash to our shareholders including the repurchase of 4.5 million shares for $465 million.
And as a result of our performance were increasing our outlook for operating profit EPS and cash from operations.
So were very pleased with our results for the first half of the year.
Chart four shows our sales in the second quarter this year versus last year.
Aeronautic sales equaled our results last year as lower quantities of F-16 F-22 and C-130 aircraft were offset by higher volume on F-35 production contracts and C-5 deliveries.
IS&amp;GS sales were lower due to reduced volume primarily in our intelligence line of business.
Missiles and Fire Control continued their strong performance with an 11% increase from sales coming primarily from air and missile defense programs.
Mission Systems and Training sales were down 12% due primarily to the end of deliveries of the PTDS program last year.
And finally space systems was 13% lower than last year due primarily to the delivery of two commercial satellites from the second quarter of last year and none this year.
Moving to chart five in our segment operating results despite our sales being down 4% operating profit was up 4% driven by the significant improvement in operating margin of 13.4%.
At the end of this quarter we had strong program execution across all of our business areas that well show in the next chart.
Chart six shows our segment operating margins by business area.
Three of our five business areas increased operating margin compared to the second quarter of last year with MST having the largest increase due to the settlement of certain contractual matters and better performance in our training and logistics business.
Missiles and Fire Control continue to have excellent results and the increase this quarter was due to improved performance in air and missile defense programs tactical missile programs and fire control programs.
Space systems margin improved primarily due to the increased equity earnings from United Launch Alliance reflecting the mix of launch related activities in the quarter compared with last year.
IS&amp;GS margin was flat relative to last years second quarter results and aeronautics margin was down this quarter due to the absence of a favorable contractual resolution on the F-22 program which occurred in the second quarter of 2012.
Adjusting for the contractual resolution aeronautics margin were similar to last year.
Moving onto chart seven.
Our EPS grew 11% over the results from the second quarter of last year to $2.64 per share due primarily to improved operational performance.
And on our pension adjusted basis our EPS was $2.87 per share.
Well turn to chart eight.
Well discuss our cash returned to shareholders in the quarter.
We returned over $800 million to shareholders in the quarter with share repurchases in excess of dividends paid.
Compared with the second quarter of last year we repurchased more than double the amount of shares.
With the increase in our stock price in the quarter we saw higher level of option exercise and accordingly we repurchased additional stock to mitigate share count dilution.
On chart nine well look at cash return to shareholders on a year-to-date basis.
We had a strong year-to-date cash -- we had strong year-to-date cash from operations of $2.7 billion and free cash flow of over $2.4 billion.
Through the first half we returned almost $1.7 billion or nearly 70% of our free cash flow to shareholders.
And our share repurchases of over $900 million will exceed the level of dividends paid thus far in the year and greatly exceed to roughly $700 million have seen in our full-year guidance at the start of the year.
Moving onto chart 10 we will discuss our updated view of guidance for the year.
As was the case last quarter we saw minimal impact to our sales in the second quarter as a result of sequestration actions and we are maintaining the sales guidance provided last quarter.
On the other hand we are increasing our outlook for segment operating profit by $225 million to recognize the strong performance to the first half of the year.
As a result of the increase in our segment operating profit we are also increasing our outlook for earnings per share by $0.40 to a new level of $9.20 to $9.50 per share and also reflecting strong performance thus far.
We are increasing our cash from operations guidance by $200 billion to a new level of greater than or equal to $4.2 billion.
Chart eleven shows our updated segment operating profit outlook by business area.
Were increasing our outlook in four to five business areas.
MFTs outlook is now $75 million higher Missiles and Fire Controls is now $70 million higher and both Aeronautics and Space are $40 million higher than our guidance last quarter.
And turning to chart twelve Ill summarize by noting that were very pleased with the results for the first six months of the year and they reflect our program execution the strength of our portfolio and the focus of our work force during these dynamic times.
With that were ready for your questions Sahid.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And in the interest of time were limiting each to one question.
Please return to the queue for any follow up questions.
Our first question comes from Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Hi good morning.
Just a quick question on the order outlook obviously the book-to-bill was about 0.8 by my calculation and it looks like obviously you have a plan to have a pretty big step up there in Q3 and Q4 to hit the levels you talked about on the previous call.
You said you havent really still seen any impact from sequester but I wondered if you could give us an update on your expectations for orders and if anythings changed and for last quarter and how about that will shape up for what youre thinking about 2014? Thanks.
Yeah thanks Carter.
So Ill start up by saying actually were slightly ahead of where we probably would be at this point of second quarter.
I tried to key that up.
I think either the first quarter or the top end of the year last year.
But were actually tracking that of expected or slightly ahead of plan.
Theres up several items and I ask probably just kind of run down the list by business area just give you an idea of what were expecting to happen over the next few quarters.
So the second biggest item obviously is the closure of the last six and seven negations for F-35 and when that happens Carter I mean think of the increase in orders as being somewhere in the $4.5 to $5 billion amount for just that one closure of contract negotiations if you will.
And were expecting that to happen in the third quarter.
Arent we making good progress that Marillyn can fill-in some of the details for you if youd like at a later point in the call? We also have a number of competitive orders.
Were watching an MST in the third quarter including Space Fence and the Air and Missile Defense Radar Program AMDR.
We also have an Aegis order for the basic Aegis program collectively those are about a billion dollars again that were expecting in the third quarter.
Missiles and Fire Control has both domestic and an FMS order for the THAAD program thats expected in the third quarter so I think of this as the annual buy from the army on the domestic side and one of our international customers tagging on for that order.
And thats -- I think I said worth about a $1.5 billion in the third quarter.
IS&amp;GS is usual is nothing -- no one program individually significant but the third quarter is expected to be higher than either the second or the first.
And then Carter as we look forward I would expect that the fourth quarter as usual will be our highest quarter of the year.
Now just to sort of summarize all that I think the third quarter -- you should think of us probably being back at a level maybe slightly higher than where we are or where we were in the first quarter and if all comes as I just laid out including some of those competitions we should end the year pretty close back about at the $80 billion like Ive been talking about the past two quarters.
Barclays</strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Spingarn from Credit Suisse.
Just Bruce or Marillyn and this could go to both of you but I wanted to just talk about what we learned in the interim between last call and this call from DOD on sequester.
I think about $1 billion was taken from 2013 money for F-35 and it appears to cut I think five aircrafts from the air force and about two from the navy and the marine core with the reminder of the billion being RDT&amp;E.
So to what extent if at all does this impact LRIP-6 and probably more likely LRIP-7 negotiations? And how should we think about that those Lot seven aircraft from the 29 aircraft originally funded in 13? Thanks for the question Rob.
First Id say that our customer really has not come out with a definitive position on how theyre going to take into account sequestration.
I know there has been lot of speculation.
Im not going to speculate with you on what theyll come out with.
Were working closely with them.
Theyre looking at different scenarios of how they are if theyll address it.
One thing I will say is that theyre very supportive of the F-35 and well just have to see how it comes out.
Weve seen in terms of any impact that we might see on F-35 that we backfill probably by international opportunities because as you can see thats where were going to ramp up.
In fact we look over the next five years close to 50% of our orders will come from international customers.
So weve got to just wait until they come forward with or wait until the Department of Defense comes forward with what their plans are and then well adjust accordingly.
Yeah.
Rob Id like to just add a little bit to what Marillyn said.
I think the negotiations on six and seven were clearly targeted to sort of keep the quantities sort of pre-sequestration.
So think of the negotiations that we hope to close fairly quickly here as being the same quantities we have embedded within the fiscal year themselves not adjusted for sequestration.
And I think Secretary Kendall has been pretty vocal in the press about trying to keep quantities and trying to prevent sort of the reopening of contracts.
And so were optimistic if that kind of plays out well for that negotiation that were not impacted to the level that you talked about.
As Marillyn said were watching the FY14 budget closely but at least as weve sort of done comparisons in particular the Presidents budget there seems to be more reductions to non-aircrafts elements of the program than aircraft programs which we think from a sort of a billed rate in bringing the overall cost profile of the program down is the right move from obviously our perspective.
So Bruce if I want to understand what you both just said its not so much about quantities its more about total dollars and these dollars dont necessarily come off of unit price but from other areas of the program? Yeah.
I think you said it just right Rob.
In fact Ive said in a media that this morning and I think Ive said in my prepared remarks that weve seen less impact from sequestration sort of red large than we expected to through this part of the year.
Ill say frankly from our perspective I cant speak obviously for all of the industry but I think the Pentagon Secretary all the way up and down to Pentagon has been very prudent in the way that theyve managed the sequestration impacts and I think theyve done a very nice job doing that from an industrys perspective.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jason Gursky from Citigroup.
Good morning everyone.
Bruce  Good morning.
Hi Jason.
Bruce this question is for you in the slide deck youve got a line in there on chart nine that says you are on track to exceed full year cash return commitments.
Youve done that on the repurchases the $926 million versus the $700 million but keeping in mind that the goal here was to keep the share count roughly by an offset dilution? So can you just provide a little bit more update on what exactly you mean by on track to exceed for your expectations is that around the share count itself or is that a comment more around the $900 million versus the $700 million? Yeah.
Probably neither actually Jason it is more of our long standing goal is to give 50% of more free cash flow.
Ill say we pretty much get there obviously we just did and so in fact I was saying did $700 million plus the dividends for the year.
So weve exceeded that already on a year-to-date basis.
And I think probably embedded your question is so what is the outlook looks like for the rest of the year and how does that expect to play out.
Ive got to believe with the stock sitting where it is today in the level of options that have been exercised to date that those will continue if the stock stays where it is today.
Its actually up a couple dollars at least last I looked at it today which will probably continue that trend and just to give you some perspective there weve had 4 million we had 4 million options exercised in the second quarter of 2013 compared to just over 1 million in the second quarter of 2012.
So you know if that trend continues that will be obviously the motivation for us to continue to share repurchases at the level weve had in the past but that will be dependent upon us watching that option exercise and its effect of the dilution of the share count.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Stallard with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Rob.
(Inaudible) a follow-up of Jasons question.
If you're obliged to carry on buy back stock at this sort of rate does this jeopardize or impact on your first ability to increase the dividend debt force? Well I guess you cant do that to infinity without impacting the ability to pay dividends back Rob but honestly I dont think you know if you look at our track record in terms of what weve done with dividend increases and you know I think thats probably always the best indicator of what well do in the future.
The one thing thats kind of interesting about where we sit from the amount of options that are still outstanding and have yet to be exercised I want to say there is about $15 million 15 million excuse me shares of options that are outstanding about 12.5 or so are vested and the other the remainder unvested.
But weve kind of weeded out if you will sort of the low dollar option amounts.
So the options that are being exercised today come with you know option prices at the $80 plus per share for the most part.
So you know think of the incremental difference between sort of buying back the shares to offset the dilution and the price of the options that are being exercised is maybe less than they would have been years ago when we had some options at the $35 to $45 levels.
So thats something to mitigate.
What you might think of in terms of the overall level of cash sort of required to continue to share repurchases.
At this point I think weve got the flexibility to do that.
we're still looking at you know with the guidance weve provided this year $4.2 billion our overall capital you know somewhere in the billion dollars maybe a little less.
So free cash flow of $3.2 billion we started out I think weve got what $2.8 billion on the balance sheet as we ended the quarter.
So you know I still think weve got the fire power to continue to do that going forward in part because of the reasons Ive just said with the benefits coming from those options when they are exercised.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak from Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Hey [Tom].
If I move to the low end of the revenue guidance range which youve indicated would happened under sequestration for 2013 the back half of the year would experience something like an 8% organic revenue decline.
In that what is your assumption for the growth rate of U.S.
DoD versus U.S.
non-DoD versus international? And then to extend you're willing or able to you know can you talk about how much different we should assume those would be in 2014 if at all? Help me with the last part of your question Noah if you would.
Please tell me more about what you're looking for the comparison of 14 to 13 what was that? Yes.
Basically what Im saying is you know is there any reason why we should not take those growth rates youve assumed in the back half of 13 and carry them forward into 14 in the center or sequestration as [stepping].
Yes.
So I think the first part of your question was if we could kind of squeeze for the back half of the year it looks like we're down I think you said 8%.
I think thats about right.
Noah I dont have it off the top of my head.
I will say that if we as I said to answer a previous question as we look at the overall year and where we sit to the first half of the year our sales were ahead of expectations in the first quarter.
Our sales were ahead of expectations in the second quarter albeit not as much as they were in the first quarter.
So we are tracking better than expected for the first half.
The $825 million that we kind of came up with point towards the low end of the guidance was sort of -- as we used in the past sort of a parametric or a mathematically derived number that frankly we haven't seen materialize as quickly or as much as we thought when we did that calculations.
So Im hopeful that we actually -- our culture towards the -- maybe little bit higher than the low end of the guidance as we said earlier -- as I said earlier weve got one quarter to kind of squeeze out the fiscal year 13 impact for sequestration.
It seems like a lot has to happen that quarter for that sort of mathematical modeling to come into fruition.
As far as the build rates going into 2014 I think were very similar to the situation that we were going into fiscal year 2013 in the -- we haven't seen truly the impacts in 13 than we had expected in large part because again I think the DoD in the Pentagon has done a fairly masterful job kind of deflecting some of that.
Its some of the expensive of operations and maintenance and some readiness issues which are not good by any means but in terms of the industry's perspective I think its been helpful.
And so we are kind of going to go into 14 somewhat the way we went into 2013 and there I think the -- we are going to have a similar story as I said at the start of the year where our long cycle businesses will not see much impact even if the 14 budget is set by sequestration.
And our short cycle businesses will have that impact.
But I got to believe the ability to continue to differ and push the sequestration impacts on O&amp;M readiness and the like will be mitigated by 14.
So I think 14 versus 13 will be similar to what we expected to kind of happen as we enter the year 13 if that makes sense.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Rich Safran from Buckingham Research.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
This question is either for Marillyn or Bruce.
Marillyn on your comments regarding at on second tranche of the F-16 and extending the backlog to 17.
Now I want to know if you could comment on other opportunities for the F-16 and maybe also if you could make the comment here about what you are thinking about in terms of production rates? And as long as on maybe legacy programs here maybe you could also comment on the opportunities and the outlook for the 130J in production rates? Sure thanks for the question.
So on opportunities for F-16 as I did say with the Iraq sale that gets us out into 2017.
But we also have opportunities and import for the UAE.
Potentially there are other Middle East countries.
We have opportunities in South America.
So our production rate today is about 13 aircrafts per year.
And it should continue on out through at least to 17 timeframe.
And then as we see additional orders come on line we would continue to stay on whatever rate that would lend itself to.
We also have F-16 upgrade work that we are doing today which is good work for us as we with the time line upgrade of F-16.
On the C-130J our plan this year is to deliver 24 aircrafts and well continue on that rate.
We have a lot of international demand for this C-130J.
And we are hopeful on moving through the multi-year opportunity with the U.S.
government which would be up to 83 aircraft through those opportunities in Saudi Arabia opportunities in India.
So we have the C-130J also has good opportunities.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol from JP Morgan.
Thanks.
Very nice margins.
I have actually just two quick ones.
One is Bruce you talked earlier about the backlog in what you expect to happen by the end of the year about $80 billion.
Funded backlog does that look at a similar profile that they were due at 55.
Do -- I think at the end of last year do you expect that to be roughly the same? And then the second question is just on the F-35 SDD.
You took another reduction profit rate reduction in the quarter.
Could you just give some color on how you think that tease you up going forward on that contract what has to happen to make that the last write down? Thanks.
Thanks Joe.
Ill try to take both those on.
The backlog as you said and were looking for a total backlog of $80 billion or so by the end of the year.
I think we are around $55 billion or so of funded backlog.
I wouldnt think -- I think I would think that relationship will sort of hold pretty steady would be my guess.
Maybe a little bit higher like think about it because I would think wed get full funding for a good portion of that lot [6 and 7] negotiation so that on a percentage basis it might actually be a little higher than it is today.
And as far as the SDD youre right.
We did take a [D-book] this year essentially similar to the one we took a year ago at this timeframe.
The way I would describe that Joe is in the quarter we finalized an agreement with the government which weve been working for quite some time for the plan for earning the remaining fee on SDD and you should think of that as being both for the remaining developmental milestones on the contract as low as sort of an overall measure of performance thats an incentive based measurement that will take place at the end of the contract.
And Ill just say that both criteria the developmental milestone theyre linked to specific dates and accomplishments through the remainder of the SDD period.
And even more so Ill say the sort of overall performance measures at the end of the contract which you should think of as being tied to both schedule performance and cost performance between now and the end of the contract.
Both of those I would characterize as very tough criteria for us.
So this is our best estimate of how were going to perform against that criteria.
Id like to say that this is -- obviously I think this is our best estimate of how wed perform against that criteria and it is a little tough maybe than what we were thinking it was when we set the numbers a year ago just on   Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bill Loomis from Stifel.
Thank you.
Just staying on F-35; Bruce you talked about the productions the quantities are still undecided.
But just from a revenue standpoint of the work youre doing is it still running about 15% can we expect that to continue? And then just another questions on IS&amp;GS with the backlog showing sequential decline and youve got two big wins last year with GSM and [Pulver] and were still declining.
When do you think we might see some stability in IS&amp;GS? Thanks.
Hey Bill.
Ill answer those.
So we are about 15% of total revenue for the F-35 program.
I think that number continues to increase over the next few years.
I think we were somewhere in the 13-ish or so range.
Ive lost track where we were last year.
So we had about a 2% increase if memory serves me right in the percentage of total F-35 compared to our total sales.
That number again I think increases going forward and then how much I would say maybe not as much as the 13% to 15% but still increasing between 2013 and 2014.
IS&amp;GS the sequential decline again kind of as expected and the reversal I think that you talked about Bill this is still a business thats very much sort of orders similar to or excuse me backlogs similar to the sales level.
For us to get there we would expect to have a greater fourth quarter which is the historical trend for IS&amp;GS.
And what I would expect to have happened is that well see from an orders perspective higher orders in both the third quarter than we saw in the first two and the fourth quarter will be higher still than the third quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Peter Arment from Sterne Agee.
Good morning Marillyn and Bruce.
Good morning.
Bruce maybe this question is for you or maybe Marillyn can take it.
Just in general headcount levels you guys have been out front on reducing your overall cost base quite a bit over the last couple of years and according to my calculation looks like headcount has come down by about 8% during that period.
I mean you are still seeing a lot of opportunities for that whether its early retirement programs or productivity or just in general mandated by the overall budgets? Thanks.
Okay.
We have taken net cap down from about 146 000 employees about two or three years ago to 116 000 now so you are right headcount has been coming down.
Weve taken some direct activities where we took out a number of management back when we do our voluntary separation program at that time.
We will continue to adjust our business to whats happening and our business base.
So thats what you are seeing is just the budget environment and adjusting to contractual delays or reductions that come with that.
So those are the types of actions well take and what we dont know is what sequestration will bring.
Certainly if we have a significant impact on program from sequestration well see additional reductions to that.
So we basically saw the business to the environment that we are operating in.
We are also coming out of footprint.
Weve done a lot and youve probably seen we reduced our capacity both shutting down facilities as well as moving out lease space into our own space and thats something that weve done for past several years.
But its just of course we take to managing our business to make sure that we get our infrastructure and our labor force aligned with business base that we have.
Quick one and then one on pension well the quick one is the EACs revisions not related to revenue for the year it looks like coming roughly flat year-on-year is that currently whats built into the guidance? And then one on pension Bruce if you can kind of give us little color obviously the rates moving higher here its going to help you pretty significantly if you stick around.
I think on a sensitivity basis like as a potentially $300 million $400 million help for you for next year versus what you previously told us.
As well can you comment on that if that changing your attitude towards cash contributions the remaining $750 million still have as discretionary for the rest of the year? Thanks.
Thanks Myles.
So EAC revisions I think as usual Myles your math is right were kind of spot on maybe a slightly different little bit down from the first half of this year compared to the first half of the last year in terms of our overall EAC revisions.
Looking forward for the rest of this year the second half at least in the plan we kind of expected the level that will be similar to a little bit higher than where we were last year and that could obviously change as sort of risk retirements happen quicker than we plan them obviously.
But as we sit here today overall we would expect still be I think last year we were about 34% overall our EAC revisions versus our total earnings so were going to be right at ballpark maybe a little higher at 35-ish or just 36% is kind of what I would expect to see.
So on pension you asked about the discount rates or the interest rate changes and so forth and Ill just -- Ill give you a little bit of perspective obviously we wont set this until the end of the year.
But clearly there have been changes to rates in the first half of the year that want some discussion.
So interest rates so far are up probably about 75 basis points and our asset returns are also slightly positive as we sit here this year.
But as you know our pension adjustments that were talking about much more sensitive to changes in the interest rates than changes in our asset return.
So you did some calculations just remind everyone else on the call.
I think the sensitivity that we provided in previous 10-Q and 10-K filings are still appropriate.
So for discount rates every 25 basis points change is worth about a $145 million change in our FAS expense whereas for asset returns it takes a 400 basis points change to be about an $18 million change in our FAS expense.
So overall if we were to set the market today we would expect to have a positive adjustment to fast cash again if those results held.
I would remind that between now and the end of the year we typically do sort of accrual settings that look at the current population of employees to see what has changed and that population as we do reductions in force you know some of the dynamics of that accrual study do actually change in terms of the acquisition of the workforce that upon which that liability is built upon.
One of the bigger changes that and it may not happen between now and the end of the year but we're watching it closely as we are expecting a new sort of standard mortality rate to come out which I guess from a good news perspective since all of us are going to live longer sort of from the bad news perspective it says your liabilities are likely going to be increasing per pension because people are living longer.
So that will have a bit of a mitigating effect on what we just described there in the numbers that she said but again well set that up.
Well try to give you the same sort of preview if you will in the third quarter call that we do typically every single year.
And thats when Ill give you probably a little more detail into that.
As far as cash contributions weve actually already made in the third quarter the second tranche of the $750 million for a total of $1-1/2 billion pension contribution.
So that is done for the year and well you know as usual we always evaluate whether or not the need arises to do anymore towards the end of the year when we sort of see our cash from operations flung out on a four year basis.
Well try and give you some insights into that Miles again when we talk again in the third quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Thank you very much.
I think this is kind of a two-part question half for Bruce and half for Marillyn.
If we look at the outlook for you Bruce and we kind of split the revenue forecast and look at what youve done for segment profit increase it would appear as if margins are going to be down almost a couple of hundred basis points in the second half versus the first half.
It looks like most of the increase in the outlook was attributable to the pick up.
So maybe Marillyn you might be able to address some of the productivity incentives underway that you know have enabled you first to do as well as you have in the first half and then maybe also address why it wouldnt stay at the same rate other than that one large contract adjustment.
Howard let me try to address.
You asked a pretty specific question there on segment operating margins in the second half and whats expected to happen.
So we did have a couple of things happen the first half of the year including as you saw within our MST business a couple of contractual resolutions.
They were a good size.
I mean obviously if you look at the margins for that business in particular thats a record level of margins and it was obviously maybe not obviously but it was driven by those contractual resolutions.
Those are not expected to replicate in the second half of the year.
So thats one item that will bring it down first half relative to second half.
Secondly space systems also up a little bit first half of the year.
Think of that as some of the phasing and the mix of where we're seeing some of the URLA equity earnings and expect to see a little bit of a reduction in that in the second half of the year.
You know so thats I think you did the math exactly right in the guidance we have Howard.
You know the wild card in all this is we have a certain level of planned Ill say risked retirements that we expect to occur in both third quarter and fourth quarter.
And just as we had some benefits beyond what we were planning in the first and second quarter if those occur as they did in the first and second that may be able to mitigate some of that reduction you see or you're talking about.
If they dont then we won't see that happen.
Its kind of that simple.
Now Ill put the call back over to Marillyn for I think the second half of your question.
Your question about you know what do we see in terms of continued cost reductions I would just you know point to the fact that weve had weve been very corrective as I said earlier the last several years Im just getting ahead of the budget cuts by reducing expenses and headcount.
But we have very few leaders that dont just manage programs they manage their business on an ongoing basis.
And they have very strong cost control discipline in their business.
So we look at that and monitor that on an ongoing basis.
As I said earlier we tried to keep our structure in line with the business base we have.
The other thing that is driving the performance of the businesses is just consistent performance on the programs.
We dont -- we're performing well across all of the business areas with very deliberate management of the programs in making sure that we perform and meet the cost targets that those contracts drive and continue to look at ways that we can improve our margins on the programs.
Its -- I think its a good -- straighter good performance by our leadership and our team across the business in executing on programs that they have.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask something Bruce just your discussion about the options just triggered something which is just in terms of the incentive compensation and thinking about things on going forward basis.
I know that TSR is an important metric.
But if a lot of people start cashing out of options do you need to do something to continue to incent people on a go-forward basis.
This is kind of part one.
And part two the higher stock price itself.
What is that going to do for the remainder of the year in terms of the Rabbi Trusts or any other sorts of I guess compensation programs and the shares outstanding as a result? So Sam Ill address the first part.
So if you have read the proxy what youve seen happen in the past two years weve actually been lowering the number of options that are paid not just to the senior leadership team but to leaders -- leadership in general.
And in fact at the start of this year we eliminated option as a component of our executive compensation program.
So all of our equity compensation going forward is either in the form of RSUs or performance stock units.
And so one of the things that I dont think we necessarily had a complete understanding amongst all of our investors is that some of the dilutive aspects that have been occurring -- that have been meeting to be offset through share repurchases had been because of the level of option exercises.
So if you track the number of outstanding options over the past few years thats come down fairly significantly.
And I guess its kind of a good news bad news each.
As the stock price increases we have more option exercise which increases the dilution effect but it also gets rid of those options at a faster cliff such that going forward.
I dont have this on top of my head but I want to say on an annual basis we were currently providing somewhere in the 5-ish -- maybe 6 million shares or so of options on an annual basis maybe more like 7 million shares.
And if youre just providing the same amount of executive compensation it takes a lot fewer shares to do that with RSUs and performance stock units.
So on an annual run rate were going to see less dilutive opportunities if you will from our executive compensation program than weve had in years passed.
So thats a direct reflection of some of the conversations weve had with investors who raised that point to us and we made that change accordingly.
I think your second question was the higher stock prices -- higher stock price in the second half of the year and its impact on the Rabbi Trust.
And really there is not an associated impact there as I think of it but certainly Rabbi Trust you can put it in essentially the same sorts of options that 401-k opportunities are for employees.
And we try to match that from our liabilities perspective.
So I think its more targeted to overall market performance if you will then directly to the Lockheed Martin stock.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Doug Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
Good morning.
Hi.
Following on aeronautics if you look forward and you had about 12% margin levels recently.
When you look forward you are going through a fairly significant mix change with F-35 growing its share of revenues but at the same time youve got more and more sustainment coming from F-22 F-16 C-130J how do you see those two things playing out going forward and should we see aeronautics margins tend to stay at the kind of levels theyre at today?  Yeah.
So Ill try that one.
Weve said for quite some time I always sort of describe this as the algebra of this business when it comes to aeronautics margins.
Going forward even though the overall F-35 margins are expected to increase going forward we have a bit of mitigation impact there because we just lowered if you will the go forward booking rate if you want to think about it that way from SSD contract by virtue of what we did with the adjustment we took this quarter.
So if you kind of throw all those things into the mix what I would expect to see is that the margins of aeronautics will come down a little bit in the future as weve predicted probably for the last two or three years simply because of the higher F-35 volume.
Even while the F-35 on a standalone basis is kind of increasing year-over-year we should think of this as were kind of in the higher single digit levels today.
So that program in generally is kind of performing in line with our expectations.
what I call sort of the algebra effect on aeronautics margins.
Im sorry.
I think youre coming up on yeah maybe one last call? Someone has questions?  All right.
And our final question comes from George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Two quick ones probably for you Bruce; following up on that F-35; in the quarter you had commented you had a $50 million increase in profit and revenues were up $175 million.
So could you break out how much of that was inception to date pickups versus just maybe say the margin improvement itself? And then in the space area you had a $50 million increase in the ULA profit which struck me as a big number.
Did you just kind of just go through what caused that and is there any way to forecast what that might be going forward? Thanks.
Yeah.
George Ill try to address both of those.
So youre right.
I think the press release identifies the amount that you talked about in terms of the $50 million and the $175 million.
Maybe the simplest way to think of that George but its a pretty good chunk of that overall $50 million on that $175 million sales increase.
But I dont have it sort of exactly in my head.
not probably quite a comparable level as the first half.
Theyre pretty close to that level in the second half.
I think the thing thats stuck out and the reason it stopped so much the second quarter of this year is because actually last year due to some of officer issues the mix issues and the phase within the year last year's second quarter was by far the lowest quarter of the year for ULA from an equity earning's perspective.
So that made this quarter although it is higher than to move it has been historically it made the difference between second quarter last year and second quarter this year appears even greater.
So let me wrap up our call today by again highlighting that I believe our second quarter results and increased guidance illustrate the solid position and performance of the corporation to provide value to our shareholders and solutions to our customers.
Even in an uncertain budget environment our product portfolio strong balance sheet robust cash generation and the exceptional execution by our 116 000 employees will continue to propel our corporation forward.
So thank you again for your interest and for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to speaking with you on our next earnings call in October.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Lockheed Martin Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Todays call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
III</strong> Thank you Stephanie and good morning everyone.
Id like to welcome you to our third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Marillyn Hewson our Chief Executive Officer and President; and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I like to remind you the statements made in today's call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities Law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see today's press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Marillyn.
Thanks Jerry.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call today.
I hope youve all had a chance to review our third quarter earnings release and financial results.
The results directly illustrate the continuation of our strong operational and financial momentum and enabled us to increase our financial outlook for 2013.
The focus and efforts of our Lockheed Martin team continued to position the Corporation for delivery of solutions to customers and value to shareholders.
I offer my congratulations and appreciation to all of our employees and especially to those employees directly affected by the government shutdown for their outstanding achievements and performance while operating in a challenging and dynamic environment.
While there were numerous financial accomplishments in the quarter that Bruce will outline in his comments I want to offer my thoughts on key strategic achievements this quarter.
From my perspective beyond the program execution and financial results that remain exceptional other accomplishments can be seen in three key strategic areas.
These areas are backlog expansion international growth and cash generation.
We have continued to describe our portfolio as the best positioned in the sector with unique and direct alignment to many of the essential programs identified by customers as they satisfy their national security requirements.
Many of our programs have provided these solutions to customers over several decades because they are proven and they are cost-effective.
Addressed validation of this alignment and positioning of our programs to customers needs is visible with our achievement of increased  increasing levels of annual backlog for the past three years ending with over $82 billion in backlog at year-end 2012 while operating in a challenging global and domestic economic environment.
This quarter our portfolio alignment and product offerings resulted in $15 billion in new orders and expansion of our backlog to nearly $79 billion.
We continue to execute on the forecast we outlined to you at the beginning of the year that our backlog expansion would resume in the third quarter.
Looking forward the new business pipeline remains robust with significant domestic and international awards expected later this year on many of our legacy programs.
With the establishment of a continuing resolution for fiscal year 2014 in place through January 15 we remain on the path previously outlined to you to further expand our backlog in the fourth quarter to a year-end estimate of at least $80 billion.
Our ability to continue the expansion of our backlog is strategically important as it helps solidify our business and provide visibility into our future financial outlook.
Our strong backlog consisting of multiple years of prior fiscal appropriations driven by our longer cycle production programs provides a level of financial stability and strategic differentiation in this era of potential government budget uncertainty.
Another area within which we achieved significant strategic progress this quarter was in the international business arena.
As you recall we have a stated goal to expand our international sales content to at least 20% of revenues in the next few years.
To achieve this goal we have moved aggressively to build upon our long-standing in-country presence and further strengthen relationships with international countries around the world through partnerships in-country production and establishment of in-country joint technology offices.
All of these actions are essential to enable expansion of international work for the Corporation.
Financial benefits to the Corporation are increased sales cash flow and earnings contribution.
Benefits to our customers are increased factory loading and our ability to improve cost through higher production throughput.
Specific events furthering our international expansion were seen across multiple business areas this quarter and included finalization of a multibillion dollar award from the United Arab Emirates for our THAAD missile defense system.
This was a significant strategic event with the UAE serving as the inaugural international customer for the THAAD system.
Demand for this proven system is only growing and has been expressed by numerous countries from the Asia-Pacific region to the Middle East.
Additionally finalization of our LRIP 6 and 7 contracts on the F-35 program contained a growing component of international work with inclusion of new aircraft awards for Australia Italy Norway and the United Kingdom.
Looking forward into 2014 Japan and Israel are scheduled to finalize new orders which would further expand our international backlog.
Additional international award can be seen on the near horizon with the Netherlands announcement of its first order to procure Joint Strike Fighters for its national defense.
We look forward to providing these revolutionary aircraft to one of our key strategic partner countries.
Finally we were pleased that South Korea plans to reopen the competition for their future fighter program potentially providing us a new customer opportunity for our fifth generation F-35 Fighter and further growth in international activity.
Our international work is expected to grow and help mitigate domestic pressures in 2014 with growth visible and achievable due to our backlog of existing work.
Our international expansion is broad based is happening now and we feel increasingly confident about our achievement of our stated goal of at least 20% in the near future.
Let me turn to cash flow.
Our ability to deliver consistently strong cash flows continues to be a strategic differentiator for our Corporation.
The importance of cash is embedded in our corporate DNA.
I was pleased that we were able to  again able to increase our 2013 cash flow outlook this quarter.
Our strong and increasing cash flow enables us to invest prudently in the future of the Corporation in areas such as capital expenditures and research and development while also providing the ability to pursue our cash deployment strategy for returns to shareholders in the areas of increasing dividends and share repurchases.
We continue to strongly believe in the return of value to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
As I look forward our future cash flows are expected to be aided by increasing levels of customer advances from growing international work and recovery of our $8 billion in prior years pension contributions.
We feel very good about our future cash and the potential for continued strong and increasing cash flows that will position the Corporation to differentiate from competitors.
Before turning the call over to Bruce to cover financials I wanted to briefly speak about Government budgets.
Last week agreement was reached to implement a continuing resolution to fund FY14 government expenditures through January 15 2014.
This action enabled federal agencies to return to work and eliminated the partial Government shutdown.
The agreement also extended the nations debt limit authority until February 7 2014 avoiding a default that could have occurred last week.
Additionally Congress agreed to conduct conference committee discussions on FY14 budget levels and cost elements with a goal for completion of a budget agreement by December 13 2013.
These actions are a step forward as they enable resumption of full government and contractor operations during the periods outlined.
Resumption of normal work is the best path forward to eliminate disruptions to operations enable cost affordability and savings initiative to progress and provide critical equipment and services to our customers.
There is still much budget work to be done by Congress to address the debt ceiling before February 7 and determine the level of funding for the entire 2014 fiscal year before the continuing resolution expires next January.
We continue to urge Congress and the administration to focus on long-term solutions to confront the difficult fiscal issues facing our country and avoid a repeat of the disruption that the nation recently experienced.
As part of those solutions we also ask that they address and revise the across the board budget reduction policy required under the current sequestration law.
This non-strategic allocation of budget reductions is not good for our nation or our national security strategy.
With the closure of Government fiscal year 2013 we can now determine that budget reduction action implemented under sequestration will result in a limited impact to our portfolio of programs in 2013 with impacts seen primarily on our shorter cycle business.
Our original estimate of $825 million in potential reduction to revenues was significantly muted due to our large backlog of work remaining unaffected by FY13 budget cuts.
This enabled us to refine our revenue outlook for calendar year 2013 to a new guidance value of approximately $45 billion better than we projected on our July earnings call.
As we look forward into 2014 clearly there is no shortage of possible government budget outcomes.
These outcomes range from full implementation of sequestration cuts required under the Budget Control Act to less severe scenarios.
These multiple scenarios are challenging to predict.
However with our anticipated strong year-end backlog I spoke to earlier aided by growing international revenues unaffected by U.S.
government budget actions we are expecting to see mitigation of financial impacts on our Corporation.
Accordingly we are providing initial trend analysis for 2014 that projects our revenues to be only slightly below 2013 levels.
Ill now ask Bruce to go through some of the details of our 2013 financial performance and 2014 trend analysis and then well open up the line for your questions.
Thanks Marillyn.
Good morning everyone.
As I highlight our key financial accomplishments please follow along with the web charts that we included with our earnings release today.
Lets start with Chart 3 and an overview of the quarter.
Sales in the quarter were $11.3 billion down from last year but slightly ahead of our expectations.
Segment operating margin continued to be very strong at 12.8% and this strong performance contributed to a 16% increase in earnings per share to $2.57 from continuing operations.
We generated $900 million in cash from operations after a $750 million pension contribution.
We continued to reward our shareholders with almost $1 billion of cash returned to the repurchase of nearly 5 million shares along with our quarterly dividend payment.
As expected we received $15 billion in orders in the quarter which brings our backlog to just under $79 billion and finally due to our operating performance we increased our 2013 outlook for segment operating profit earnings per share and cash from operations.
Chart 4 shows our sales and segment operating margins for the third quarter this year versus last year.
Our sales were 4% lower than last year but ahead of our expectations after sequestration was enacted.
Segment operating margin increased 70 basis points over the third quarter of last year to 12.8% continuing the strong performance weve achieved thus far this year.
Well show the breadth of the margin improvement on Chart 5 which shows our third quarter segment operating margins for each of the 5 business areas compared with last years results.
Segment margins were higher or comparable in 4 of the 5 business areas.
Improvements in Missiles and Fire Control resulted from improved performance across a number of programs most notably in Air and Missile Defense programs such as PAC-3 and THAAD and Fire Control programs such as the LANTIRN and Sniper programs.
Improvements in Mission Systems and Training were also broad based with the largest improvement coming from our radar programs.
Margins in Aeronautics and IS&amp;GS were slightly higher or comparable while our margin in Space Systems remained strong and was 60 basis points lower than the third quarter of last year.
Last years results were the highest level ever experienced in Space Systems and included significantly higher earnings from our United Launch Alliance and United Space Alliance joint ventures the latter due to wind down activities in 2012.
Turning to Chart 6 well discuss our earnings per share.
EPS from continuing operations in the quarter was 16% higher than a year ago at $2.57 per share driven primarily by improved margins and a lower FAS/CAS adjustment this year.
On a pension-adjusted basis our EPS grew to $2.80 per share in the quarter.
On Chart 7 well discuss our cash from operations in the quarter.
We continue to have excellent cash generation with $900 million in the quarter although that is lower than last years level we made a $750 million pension contribution this year while no contribution was made in the third quarter of last year.
Weve completed our planned funding of our pension plans in 2013 and consistent with our historical practices we will evaluate making additional contributions to our pension trusts at year-end but only to the extent that these contributions will not impact our ability to generate $4.3 billion in cash from operations.
Turning to Chart 8 well discuss our cash return to shareholders in the quarter.
Weve returned almost $1billion to shareholders this quarter through share repurchases and dividends.
The level of share repurchases was more than double what we did in the third quarter of last year and brings the total cash returned so far this year to more than $2.6 billion.
Moving to Chart 9 well look at our backlog and book-to-bill ratios since last year.
Consistent with the quarterly backlog profile we provided at the beginning of the year our backlog grew to just under $79 billion this quarter achieving a strong book-to-bill ratio of $1.3 billion.
We continue to expect that backlog will increase further in the fourth quarter and end the year above the $80 billion level.
On Chart 10 we provide our updated guidance.
As we said on the last call the effects of sequestration were not as great this year as we had initially modeled them to be and we now feel comfortable in saying our sales for the year are anticipated to be around the $45 billion level.
Reflecting our strong operational performance throughout this year were increasing our forecasted segment operating profit by $125 million.
Partially offsetting improvements in our segment operating performance is an increase in our unallocated expenses for severance charges related to reduction in force announced last week in our MST business area and a net increase in expenses for our deferred compensation plans.
The net increase in operating earnings resulted in an increase to our earnings per share guidance of $0.20 to to $9.40 to $9.70 per share.
And finally we increased our expectations for cash from operations by $100 billion to equal or better than $4.3 billion.
Chart 11 shows our updated outlook for both sales and segment profit by business area and ties the guidance updates from the previous chart.
On Chart 12 we provide our initial view of our expectations for 2014.
We believe sales next year will be only slightly below the 2013 level with growth in our Aeronautics business area offsetting reduction in our IS&amp;GS and Space Systems business areas while both Missiles and Fire Control and Mission Systems and Training are expected to be relatively comparable to their 2013 levels.
And we expect our segment operating margins to be lower than this years record level but above the 11.5% its level in total as we experience the dilutive effect of F-35 production growth in Aeronautics as we described for several quarters along with the absence of several non-recurring benefits in the other business areas this year.
We expect our FAS/CAS pension adjustment will provide income of $150 million in 2014 after several years of reducing our reported earnings.
Our assumptions that led to the favorable adjustment our 75 basis points increase from the discount rates to 4.75% a low single-digit return on assets in 2013 and $1 billion in pension funding in 2014.
Finally we have our summary on Chart 13.
Weve had outstanding performance all during 2013 and we expect that to continue and result in a very solid year particularly in this dynamic environment.
With our current portfolio as well as our enhanced focus on international expansion we like our strategic positioning heading into the next few years.
Weve provided outstanding value to shareholders this year from both a total shareholder return perspective as well as with cash return to shareholders and while were providing high-level trend information today well provide our usual detailed guidance during the January call.
With that were ready for your questions.
Stephanie? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Jason.
Good Morning.
Good morning.
Marillyn and Bruce so I was wondering if you could just walk us through the assumptions on your  with your major programs that are embedded in your outlook for 2014 just so some of the building blocks and kind of track progress as we go along? Yes Jason Ill give you a high-level view.
Marillyn has something to add Ill throw on a couple of other or she could throw on a couple topics as well.
So maybe just starting with the biggest business area Aeronautics probably the topic that youd be curious about is the aircraft quantity changes say from this year to next year.
So think of the F-35 quantities were going to finish the year probably around the 36 aircraft deliveries or so we expect that to grow somewhat next year to maybe 38 maybe a couple more than that but somewhere in that range.
Our F-16 deliveries this year are 13 aircrafts.
That is expected to grow perhaps about 15 aircraft next year.
C-130Js I think were going to do about 24 to 25.
There is one thats kind of on the bubble of delivering this year and next year but if it happens this year it will be 25.
Even if that happens this year we still think well stay steady at about the 24 aircraft level next year.
In C-5 this one is ramping up between 2013 and 2014.
Were going to deliver somewhere between Ill say 5 to as many as 8 this year but in any event we think well grow that number to 10 aircraft next year and the reason we are a little hesitant on giving the numbers for 2013 is because of some of the activities that led to the de-book this quarter relative to some of the over and above works that were experiencing in those aircraft that could cause delay in some of those deliveries this year.
If I think around the other business areas you should think we are seeing a slight reduction in quantities of some of our Air and Missile products associated with the PAC-3 program but thats more than offset at Missiles and Fire Control by increases in the THAAD production quantities think about both domestically as well as with the recently completed UAE international order.
We have no commercial satellites or commercial launches next year in our Space Systems business.
We expect to have obviously no large programs that jump out on our IS&amp;GS business area but we expect to see a continued downward trend within IS&amp;GS probably somewhere in the -- I think of that as the high single-digit range level between 2013 and 2014 so that probably covers a bunch of program Jason there may be others you want to hear about and if so others can ask on the call when we go down to further questions.
Our next question comes from Richard Safran with Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Hi good morning.
Good morning Rich.
Good morning.
Inc.</strong> I was interested  just kind of a two-part question on your comments Marillyn at the opening and on the 4Q bookings chart on Chart 9.
One should we kind of infer that theres very little risk from the Government shutdown on 4Q bookings in terms of what the Government is going to want to contract? and then as a second part I found it interesting that you had enough confidence in your outlook to talk about 2014 trends.
Could you discuss whats driving your confidence in your outlook just especially given where the Congress and the Administration are? Thanks.
Hey Rich.
Ill give a shot at both of those and well see if Marillyn has some color or commentary to provide beyond that.
So fourth quarter orders we do feel very comfortable in stating what we said relative to expectations that will grow backlog between now and the end of the year.
And in particular the reason we feel that way is that there are really very few competitive awards expected to occur in the fourth quarter and we have really no reliance on sort of new start programs in the quarter either.
And just as importantly while were operating in a continuing resolution environment we believe all the awards that were expecting to receive in the quarter can be awarded under the continuing resolution.
So just to maybe name a couple of them that we expect that will lead to the year-end backlog numbers we talked the most significant awards are occurring in our Space Systems business.
So think of that as the SBIRS Spacecraft 5 and 6 contract definitization by the end of the year the annual -- in this case the FY14 annual installment of the Fleet Ballistic Missile award.
We expect to receive a pretty significant contract extension on the Orion program within NASA and then if I go  thats  those are probably the most significant all of which are in Space.
If I go to other business areas were expecting things like the normal sort of FY14 award of the C-5 modernization aircraft this year.
We should close hopefully on the FY13 contract to finalize or definitize the C-130 deliveries for the U.S.
Government and then weve got just a whole slew of sorting what I would call the numerous funding from fiscal year 2014 funds becoming available for things like JASSMs PAC-3s sustainment contracts across multiple business areas.
So again we feel pretty good about all those happening.
Again not anything that I would say isnt a competitive award that could be pushed out or that we could lose in the fourth quarter that would diminish those numbers.
So I think its a really good visibility as we go into 2014 as well.
I think you asked about the 2014 guidance or maybe you expressed some surprise that we were at the levels we are so maybe at a high level Ill just talk about what were seeing in 2014.
As Marillyn said we do expect sales to be slightly lower than 2013 and you should think of that as we are going to see growth in Aeronautics thats primarily coming from the F-35 production program as well as the C-5M delivery growth and numbers that Ive talked about earlier and thats offsetting reductions in as Ive said IS&amp;GS and Space and Missiles and Fire Control and MST again are fairly comparable.
Margins again we expect to remain above 11.5%.
and Ive talked in quarters past about what I like to refer to as sort of the algebra effect of the F-35 where we get higher volume on the F-35 program at lower margins than the overall margins of Aeronautics and that has the effect of lowering margins in aero overall.
Missiles and Fire Control and IS&amp;GS I would think are going to be relatively comparable to 2013 whereas Space and MST probably a little lower than where we experienced this year but still very strong relative to recent history on those  in both of those business areas and this is due to a number of non-recurring events positive events that occurred in 2013.
Space also has the lower equity earnings expectation in 2014 compared to 2013.
So Rich maybe just to sum up 2014 I would say from a margin perspective looks very similar to 2013 when we began the year just without sort of performance improvements that we have experienced throughout 2013 that weve yet to obviously experience in 2014.
Maybe one last note on 2014 you should see the tax rate in 2014 increase a little bit over 2013.
Youll recall we actually had two tranches if you will of R&amp;D tax credit in the year 2013.
So probably more than you wanted to know there Rich but hopefully that covers your question.
Our next question comes from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning.
Good morning.
and I guess I would put that in conjunction with the comments you made around sequestration and that sequestration the impact this year was a little bit less than you had thought.
What Im trying to get at is is this largely a timing issue or has  have some other things happened that is kind of strengthened the picture this year.
And then how does that link to IS&amp;T which youve said will be weaker next year? And does that play into the civil the defense to the Intel portions of it? So Doug I would just say to that point you know when we gave some insight earlier in the year about what we expected on the impact to sequestration it really was looking across all of businesses we did recognize that our shorter cycle business like IS&amp;GS would have a more significant near-term impact.
But that was juts modeling that Bruce and his team did just to kind of take a look at what was the outlook for the year of things that could be impacted we have not seen the impact and so it wasnt really just because of IS&amp;GS.
IS&amp;GS is  because it has a large IT infrastructure work and support and the information technology area has been impacted because thats an area that the Government can cut back on pretty readily.
We do  it is  as I said it is a short shorter cycle business where we see growth there potential growth where as in the cyber security arena but its fairly a new area for us or we continue to see some offset of growth there.
Bruce I dont if you want to maybe add some other Yes maybe just I think you asked a question about where were seeing that maybe by the LOVs the civil defense and intelligence.
And so were actually seeing little bit of growth in our defense business and a lot of thats because weve won  going back to Marillyns kind of weve won several sort of cyber activities from competitors sort of  no we refer to as playing offense if you will in that arena so weve been successful on it.
And thats one of the reasons why the defense business is growing this year over last year.
As we looked next year theres not as many of those sorts of competitions coming up I believe all three lines of the business civil defense and intelligence in next years numbers as we said here today though were expecting to reduce compared to 2013.
And I think thats just sort of the  a combination of two things one that is what Ive always said when youre the largest provider of IT Services to the Federal Government for 18 straight years now I believe.
That when the federal governments budget goes down you are likely to go down as well; we expect that to happen again in 2014.
And the other side of that is Ill say we have within the numbers that I talked within the ranges that Ive talked in the trend information so that considered the growth [ph] and ongoing sequestration level impact this year as well.
So the combination of those two events is what we see happening within IS&amp;GS.
I always like to close that by saying at some point IT spending has to increase.
You cannot continually reduce IT spending for the Federal Government and expect to provide the services the population expects.
In some point it will turn the other way.
Our next question comes from Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
This is actually Elizabeth in for Ron today.
Hi Elizabeth.
Hi.
We see  its actually seeing Boeing really emphasize recently their Partnering for Success program where they are trying to get 15% of their suppliers.
And we were just wondering with all the cash that youre returning to shareholders and the DoD under so much pressure at what point do you think the DoD sort of tries to implement its own Partnering for Success and take 15% from the defense contractors? Well Ill let Marillyn state from her perspective Elizabeth I dont think weve ever stopped Charles to do what we think makes sense economically and from an affordability perspective with our supply chain.
And we maybe have a little different views there has been some  and we think the real ability to have supply chain starts actually with the designs that we come up with and how we can make those more affordable to build and sustain going forward.
So its not something that we woke up overnight and realize that we had the correct elements for our supply chain to become affordable.
We are probably two-thirds of our costs to sales today are in the supply chain.
If we are going to be affordable its going to have to include our supply chain and always has and thats the focus that we do today.
We have I would argue very good relationships with our supply chain.
We have annual sessions where we meet with them.
Actually Marillyn has spoken to that group in mass to show the emphasis that we place on our supply chain and expectations not just of affordability but of quality as schedule timeliness and alike.
So this is something that we put in place for quite sometime that is not a new item of course.
I would add to that Elizabeth I think if you are asking is our customer treating us as their supplier in a fashion that they were going to put some push on us to be more affordable they have been.
I mean that is a  they have been very clear that is a top priority for them.
They are dealing with very significant budget constraints and increasing global security demand.
So they are challenged and across our industry they have a press for us to all to be more affordable in solutions that we provide them and how we manage our business.
Its not something that is new to us.
Weve been very proactive as leaders in the industry to drive down our cost and we have taken actions to reduce our footprint.
We have had to take some painful actions in reducing our workforce at times to adjust to the business base.
We are investing in technologies to provide them with a more affordable product.
So we take the weight out or we make it  overall total cost lower.
A lot of things that we are doing to support our customers drive for affordability and at the same time they offer incentive provisions to get in cost savings because it is so critically important to them.
So in some of our contracts we have those types of incentives to encourage us to continue to drive costs down.
So as Bruce said we manage our supply chain.
Its an ongoing effort on our part to make sure that we get the best value from them in terms of costs schedule quality and at the same time we want to provide our customer with the most affordable solutions and the most technically capable solutions for what their needs are.
Our next question comes from Cai von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Co.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks so much and great performance again.
Thank you Cai.
Thank you.
So I have a two-part question.
First you talked about sales being down modestly next year.
Could you talk about international if thats growing what sort of growth do you see in international and what are the key drivers? And secondly DoD as it looks at the fiscal 2015 budget had some priority programs and some bill payer programs potential bill payer programs included in those are C-130 C-5 and LCS.
Maybe you could comment on your thoughts as to whether those programs you think are at risk in the FY15 budget? Thanks.
So on the international growth side we certainly continue to see growth in F-35.
In fact over the next five years close to half of the orders will be international deliveries for the F-35 as we move forward.
On C-130J there continues to be a demand for the C-130J and we continue to sell F-16s around the world.
So we see growth in those areas.
Missile defense is another very important element for us in our international growth Bruce talked about that and PAC-3 and of course we have our operations for Aegis Ashore and then we do see other opportunities for us as we look forward into the  in the satellite commercial satellite arena and cyber security and our IT arena for growth in the sale and international growth.
On the F-15 priorities you mentioned C-130 LCS and C-5 all of those are part of our  of the strategic management review that was done by the U.S.
Government.
They are high priority programs and in addition to those I think Missile Defense continues to be a high-priority program.
And the another thing I would add Cai is I was a little surprised to hear C-130 mentioned in that comment where one of the few problems in the DoD thats actually is being considered for a multi-year program to buy an additional 79 aircraft for a couple of the services right now.
I think thats got strong support it obviously has reduced  affordability aspect to it versus buying them on individual fiscal years that has I think been well received by our customers and we expect that to happen.
So thats one that caught my ear a little bit somewhat of a surprise when you had that to discussion there.
Our next question comes from David Strauss with UBS.
Your line is open.
Hi David are you on mute? Hey good morning.
Hey there.
Good morning.
Good morning Marillyn.
I wanted to ask you about back on sequestration.
So when you saying in the release that you assumed all impact known associated with sequestration just so Im clear that that youre assuming inherently in that that sequestration relates to fiscal 2014 comes through as we know announced another $15 billion to $20 billion cut off of to the total DoD budgets.
And then the last part of my question maybe if you could walk us through Bruce I think back in January maybe within the airport [ph] you put together that side that showed that in terms of the total revenues that would be impacted by sequestration in 2013 were in like 20%.
Where does that number move to in 2014 or in other words how much of your  what proportion you think of your revenues will actually be impacted by sequestration in 2014? Thanks.
Yes.
Okay thank you David.
Its a good question.
So let me give you maybe a long windy answer on the sequestration impacts for next year.
I think Ill cover hopefully both of your questions in this answers.
If not again maybe you can come back on and ask the question again but.
So we still think sequestration how that impacts 2014 is broken up from our business area perspective than the sort of the long cycle businesses and short cycle.
We always refer to aeronautics and space for instance as long cycle businesses.
But there are also large parts of Missiles and Fire Control and Mission Systems and Training that are also really considered to be long cycle businesses as well.
So you should think of those as in my words being relatively insulated part of the effects to sequestration in FY 2014 because most of their calendar year 2014 sales are from prior fiscal year funded activities or prior fiscal year funded backlog.
That also says theres not probably as much upside as sequestration improves over what our expectations are either in those long cycle businesses.
Our short cycle businesses and primary one being the IS&amp;GS but also has smaller parts Missiles and Fire Control Mission Systems and Training as well.
We faced some pretty good reduction into the numbers that were expecting relative to the guidance assuming the trend information we provided to the slightly less than 2013 sales those reductions are planned in that outlook already.
And we think that pretty much captures what we think will happen under a sequestration environment under a lot of different scenarios that we can think of.
And the reason for that is while we say they are short cycle businesses each one of those businesses IS&amp;GS the service is part of MFC the service is part of MST and backlog from prior year funding is actually greater than one time sales in each case.
So there was not as long or as not as significant in terms of the backlog as the long cycle business and there is definitely more current year award to current year sales going on in those business areas.
It is more insulated than perhaps you might think and I think we experienced that ourselves and we try to do the modeling at the start of this year that we actually have more insulation in my words that maybe we  maybe we would otherwise thought we had at the start of the year.
There is also the aspect next year that we dont want to lose track and back to I guess Cais question.
We do expect international growth for the next year both in terms of absolute dollar as well as on a percent of sales base.
So that helps to mitigate any down side were seeing from the sequestration impact as well and finally at least as weve looked at it we think there is minimal  if there is really any reliance on 2013 unobligated funds balance thats left the outstanding at the end of the fiscal year to become 2014 sales for Lockheed Martin.
So if if those funds were to evaporate if those funds were to be used to offset FY 2014 sequestration reductions we think again were again insulated from that aspect as well.
So hopefully that covers the two questions you had there David.
Our next question comes from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is opened.
Hi good morning everybody.
Morning Noah.
Good morning.
I guess Im trying to figure out how the parse  to me revenue being down slightly is a positive surprise given what the budget is doing and that you are the Bellwether in sense.
And I hear you saying and I know that you have well positioned the favorite programs and I obviously hear you saying no that its a long cycle business.
I guess Im trying to sort of quantify or parse out how much of each of those two items it really is in 2014 because if its almost entirely just favored programs that would suggest you could move back to actually growing sooner than later if sequestration is the last cut.
Whereas if its long if its more being long cycle than it is favored programs that would suggest you actually have several more years of not really being able to grow the top line even if sequestration is the last cut? Yes so interesting question Noah and Ill see if I can parse my answers to the question the way you parsed your questions.
as we look into 2014 I think one of the things that may surprise some folks as going forward is that were actually probably seeing more growth in the F-35 program in next year the number that we are trending towards the slightly less than $45 billion next year that maybe a lot of people would have expected.
So just in big numbers the F-35 is going to be 15% or 16% of the sales of the Corporation in 2013 and F-35 jointly between the development program and the production program but all of the growth coming from the production program is probably going to grow some 15% year-over-year from 2013 to 2014.
So thats  I think thats one of those programs Noah that I would characterize as both long cycle and the right priority.
I think the prioritization has been demonstrated continually throughout the past year both domestically and internationally with the support that were getting on the program and obviously by definition I guess its a long cycle program.
I think weve got other programs that has same deal the C-130 I mentioned with the multi-year the Air and Missile Defense programs where theyre both long cycle and high priority; LCS is another one that would fall in that category.
So Ill tell you  and Ill let Marillyn opine here also on it because I know she feels strongly about this but weve said all along we think that we have the best portfolio in the business.
We think we have the opportunity to sell that portfolio internationally which helps to mitigate or mute the impacts of the domestic reductions.
And so I dont think that the scenario you described where we would expect to see growth depending on how sequestration plays out in 2014 is unrealistic at all.
Yes Id just agree with what Bruce has outlined for you.
And weve talked as you said yourself we have a well positioned portfolio of programs and as Bruce outlined where we see the growth opportunities in 2014.
If there is an impact with sequestration as we  there is a full impact with sequestration.
We walked through where the impact will be on the shorter cycle businesses.
If we dont see that same significant level we should expect to have some offset there and then the longer cycle business as we move on we do see growth continued growth in Air and Missile Defense and the F-35 and even F-16 upgrades and the number of other opportunities on C-130Js internationally as well as the multi-year.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good Morning.
Good morning.
Couple of Green IT Tech questions for you Bruce just on the margins maybe it would help us if you quantified a little bit the two items that you say might pressure segment margins next year.
How much pressure do you see on the F-35 becoming a bigger part of the mix because youre 12.8% year-to-date on segment margins just seems like a 11.5%.
There is a lot of room to come in ahead of 11.5% even given some of the pressures? And the second part of that is just on MST in particular you highlighted radar programs as being a big driver of the upside we can see adjustments in the quarter are you getting into a situation there where there is  you could for a few quarters get some upside just given that the opportunities on those contracts or is just truly do you think not sustainable? Thanks.
Yes thanks Joe.
So lets see the F-35 is in the reference to whats happening with the F-35 growth and its impact on Aeronautics margin and first off I know you are looking at the 12.8% but I think if you  thats where we ended the quarter.
I think thats the highest quarter weve ever had in the history of the Corporation.
If you go to the full year I think were looking  if you go to mid point of guidance probably in the 12.3% to 12.4% range.
So Im not going to debate whether thats going down or up relative to 11.5% and it obviously is but it may not be from the 12.8% picture starting from.
The only thing I tried to emphasize was on the  on a previous question was that 11.5% that we are talking about actually looks a lot like where we started the year 2013.
I forgot what we  what our guidance was in the start of the year but it was somewhere in the 11.6% or 11.7% as I recall it kind of feels like a similar level to me is where we started in 2013.
Most years we have had positive performance improvements throughout the year that have enabled us to have benefits.
We dont count on those happening every year when we provide the initial guidance but I think our track record for most years would say thats been where weve been successful.
So as I look at Aeronautics I would expect that reduction to occur I mean from a margin perspective 2013 versus 2014 they are going to  I think if we go to the midpoint they are probably in the 11.4-ish range.
And I would think that well still see it somewhere in the 11% margins even with the dilutive effective of the F-35 and C-5 increases in Aeronautics.
The point Im trying to make on the  in my prepared remarks was that in particular with an MST we had I believe in the second quarter that was the highest margin in the history of MST and we had a few contractual resolutions there that we did described in both the press release and Q which you should think of being $75-ish million or so.
On top of that we have had very good performance you mentioned the Radar programs those are very good.
I think thats a business that kind of stays in 11-ish range on a kind of a go-forward basis.
And then you didnt ask about it but the one I mentioned previously was the Space Systems Company with the joint venture in equity earnings.
We had some high equity earnings this year really associated with launch related activities.
Those are expected to come down a little bit next year.
Could we see the same experience with some performance out of ULA next year as we saw this year? Yes.
But are we planning on that with our guidance? Not at this point in time.
So Space Systems Im very pleased with margins there again this is probably the highest share in the history of space.
I think thats a business that probably stays in 12% range going into next year.
So what we say here today we are not at all just pleased with where we expect the margins to go next year and Id say we have the same sorts of opportunities to increase those margins next year as we did this year.
Our next question comes from Rob Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
On the F-35 on the most recent contract you signed; I was wondering if you can give us some color on how the contractual terms might have changed and how your discussions with the customer have progressed you could have a separate customer? Firstly.
Rob I guess the first thing as we negotiated Lot 6 and 7 combined if you will they are separate contracts but we did do a  essentially concurrently.
And we did so in about six months time versus Lot 5 where we probably took about 18 months.
So I think we are on a good path there.
As for as contractually speaking we do have essentially a fixed price contract and Id say essentially because there is a little bit of essential share on underrun there between the Government and ourselves there is no share on the overrun.
So think about fixed price in that regard and Im trying to think Rob I think off the top of my head I think most other terms and conditions that we negotiated with Lot 5 carried over and so Im looking at Marillyn here she was very engaged in Lot 5 carried over into Lot 6 and 7.
I dont think we had much to speak of the change of anything there.
So Ill probably leave it at that.
Yes.
I agree Bruce.
Okay.
Our next question comes from Robert Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning everybody.
This is actually Ross Cowley in for Rob.
I just wanted to touch base on the AMDR contract specifically find out how surprised you were when the award went to Raytheon and whether how the debriefing is going whether this is something that you could protest? Well Ill answer that.
From an AMDR standpoint we were disappointed on the decision by the Government.
we did see a decrease last week and so were in the midst of evaluating the information.
But weve had  weve been engaged on the Aegis System for the past 42 years.
So we have deep understanding of that program and of the mission.
So we were certainly disappointed but were still on the midst of evaluation  evaluating information that came out of the debriefing.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Thanks hi good morning.
Bruce the cash into 2014 outside of the pension tailwind and net income how should we think about the advances cash taxes any of that working capital sensitivities.
And so trying to look at some paper I got in front of me Myles in terms of the advances.
typically what we project going forward is that our advances will come down.
We dont have a huge number of direct commercial contract plans in the 2014 timeframe that would sort of bring typical advance payments with them most of our international growth next year comes in the form of foreign military sales contracts.
So I wouldnt expect to see the starting sorts of advances that weve had in the past that result in our advanced balance going on the balance sheet there.
Working capital wise I think were going to see some improvements there as we kind of go through the production and we obviously have some withholds associated with the business system rule for things like Earned Value Management System that have been made pretty public that we expect to finalize and that will improve the working capital position associated with those.
I think from a thinking or planning perspective you should think of next years number I think being higher than the level of cash that its going to generate in 2013.
I know its been in the either in a response to question or in my prepared remarks we talked about the potential for looking in the fourth quarter additional pension contributions.
Even with that Id say we would stay above the $4.3 billion level in 2013 and I think well be north of that in 2014.
And our next question comes from George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning Bruce.
Hey George.
Good morning.
The question I have got is two parts.
Last years ending funded backlog with $55 billion versus the $82 billion that you quote.
Given that the funding is less assured these days what do you figure that funded backlog will end this year? And then my second one is I know youve given some color to try and mitigate why sales are only down a few percent next year.
But just conceptually I mean youll be down 4% to 5% this year and next year the budget is worse the sequestration impact is worse.
So maybe a little more clarity on why you think youll actually decline less next year than this year? Thanks.
So George good questions as usual.
So Im doing this a little of the top of my head.
You asked funded backlog at the end of last year funded at the end of this year and maybe embedded in your question was dont you have more risk the difference between funded and unfunded.
I think the key distinct and theres whats obligated versus necessarily whats funded.
The real issue from a sequestration perspective is taking those unobligated funds and those are the ones that are really at risk S-3 as I made to comments before about again why we think we have in 2014 a pretty good handle along what our revenue is going to be.
So we dont have a reliance on the unobligated funds turning into sales in 2014.
I dont particularly see an issue was funded backlog balance in the end of this year.
I think it will be comparable either percentage basis or an absolute basis to where we ended last year on a percentage basis relative to the ending backlog amount.
So I dont think thats an issue that I am particularly concerned about as we sit here today.
Going forward you asked about my paraphrase why we feel comfortable with saying were going to be relatively comparable to the 2013 sales even though it appears the budget is going down more.
Youre actually right with that.
Going back to the question I think Noah asked it is a function of our portfolio as to things that I talked about when I described the sequestration impacts.
We do expect international sales to grow both on a percentage basis and on absolute dollar basis.
Our single largest program the F-35 as I said is expected to grow 15%.
We have other growth in particular Air and Missile Defense products have  and Missiles and Fire Control.
And so for all the reasons that I went around the hone earlier by each business area we feel pretty good about that.
I mean the things that I would think could change that dramatically George from what we are expecting to see now as if sort of obligated under contract programs were terminated or partially terminated.
And if that were to happen sort of all bets are off but thats not a scenario that were counting on or guiding towards at all when we give our trend information for 2014.
III</strong> Stephanie I think were maybe a minute past to the hour here.
So Im going to maybe turn it back over to Marillyn for final thoughts.
Thanks Jerry.
As we conclude today I believe our third quarter results and increased guidance illustrate the solid position and performance of the Corporation to provide solutions to customers and value to shareholders.
In an uncertain budget environment our strong backlog of work our solid balance sheet our robust cash generation and the exceptional execution of our employees will continue to propel our Corporation forward.
I am confident in our future because of the outstanding performance innovation and integrity of our workforce as we support our customers and their essential missions.
Thanks again for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to speaking with you on our next earnings call in January.
Stephanie that concludes our call today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude todays conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day and welcome everyone to the Lockheed Martin Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Todays call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions Id like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
III</strong> Thank you Shannon and good afternoon everyone.
Id like to welcome you to our fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Marillyn Hewson our Chief Executive Officer and President; and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Statements made in today's call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities Law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see todays press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Marillyn.
Thanks Jerry.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on the call today.
All of us here hope that your year is off to a good start.
Let me begin by saying that Im extraordinarily proud of our Lockheed Martin team.
We continue to maintain focus and achieve strong program of financial performance and a challenging environment.
These efforts enable the corporation to generate exceptional operational and financial results in 2013 and have us well positioned for 2014.
Bruce will cover the financial results in detail over later; I want to highlight a few noteworthy 2013 financial achievements from my perspective.
Starting with new business.
I was particularly pleased with our continued success in securing new order bookings from both domestic and international customers.
These new contract awards enabled our year-end 2013 backlog to grow to a record level of almost $83 billion.
Even more impressively 2013 marks a fourth consecutive year weve grown our backlog in a very challenging and competitive environment.
I was also pleased that the international components of our backlog grew to approximately $20 billion representing almost 25% of our total backlog.
This has us well positioned to achieve our stated goal of expanding international revenues to over 20% of total corporate revenues in the next few years.
This backlog expansion is aided by two strategic differentiators.
First we continue to believe our portfolio is the best positioned in the sector with unique and direct alignment to many of the essential programs identified by both domestic and international customers.
Second our corporate wide focus on fostering and expanding customer relationships directed at how we may best support their critical needs continue to play a pivotal role in securing our new business awards for our innovated and cost effective products.
Our strong and growing backlog consisting of multiple years of prior fiscal appropriation driven by our longer cycle production programs provides strategic differentiation and a financial foundation of future work.
Another area of noteworthy achievement is our segment operating margin.
Outstanding program performance resulted in segment operating margin expansion to a record level of 12.7% an increase of 90 basis points of the 2012 level and marks the third consecutive year of margin expansion.
Even more importantly this performance was broad based with all five business areas exceeding or maintaining their 2012 margin levels.
Margin expansion opportunities are expected to emerge in the future as our program portfolio expand the international program plus a transition from the current 50-50 mix of development versus production programs to a higher proportion of production work.
As key development program such as the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter Littoral Combat Ship THAAD Missile Defense System and satellite programs mature.
I know our leadership team is up to the challenge of delivering on the commitments weve made to our customers with respect to these important and growing production programs.
Another area where weve been successful and which remains our strategic focus is generating robust cash flow.
Our ability to deliver consistently strong cash flows continues to be a differentiator for our corporation.
In 2013 we generated over $4.5 billion in operating cash after making approximately $2.3 billion in pension contributions.
Our strong and increasing cash flow enables us to invest prudently in the future of the corporation in areas such as research and development and capital expenditures while simultaneously executing our cash deployment strategy of return to the shareholders in the areas of dividends and share repurchases.
In 2013 we returned over $3.3 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases reflecting a return of almost 90% of our annual free cash flow to stockholders.
Looking forward our future cash flows are expected to remain strong.
Cash flows will be aided by higher pension recoveries plus increasing levels of customer advances from higher international work content.
Our focus on cash generation and the potential for continued strong and increasing cash flows is expected to position the corporation to differentiate us from competitors in value creation and returns to shareholders.
Looking outside the corporation I wanted to briefly turn to the status of government budgets.
Since we last spoke in October congressional budget deliberations were completed on full appropriations bills for fiscal year 2014.
These efforts resulted in finalization of the detailed spending bills necessary to fund the government for the remainder of fiscal year 2014 and the president signed the bills into law last week.
This law sets new spending targets for DoD and civil government agencies that restores a portion of the sequestration cuts for the next two fiscal years and bring the major of near-term fiscal stability that should improve the ability of our customers and our corporation to plan for the future due to more certainty and budget planning and program funding.
Under this law sequestration is eliminated for fiscal years 2014 and 2015 and replaced with reduced spending levels.
The law also removed the across the board spending reduction methodology previously in place under sequestration and restore the ability for government agencies to move funds and discretely allocate resources to higher priority areas.
A critical revision that weve been seeking since the Budget Control Act was established back in 2011.
DoD based budgets for fiscal year 2014 and 2015 were established at approximately $500 billion per year a level roughly flat with the fiscal year 2013.
While weve not yet seen the specific budget allocations by program we continue to believe that our portfolio of products will be well supported and the strategically focused allocation of budget resources.
These recent budget actions are welcome first step in the creation of a more measured and strategic approach to dealing with the nations fiscal challenges.
Until sequestration is eliminated long-term uncertainty remains.
Thus we will continue to add our voice to those seeking long-term solutions to national budgetary pressures while working to eliminate sequestration as law.
Finally I want to provide some insight into the announcement this past quarter that we will close certain of our operations principally those located in Newtown Pennsylvania; Akron Ohio; Goodyear Arizona -- and Goodyear Arizona as well as consolidate our facility footprint at our Sunnyvale California campus.
These decisions are part of our continued affordability initiative and follow a detailed review of our current facilities capacity and future workload projections.
The important work being performed at these sites will transition to other Lockheed Martin facilities with closures of these sites to be complete by mid 2015.
In 2013 we reduced overhead costs cut capital expenses and removed 2.1 million square feet of facility space.
These new actions will reduce further our facility footprint by nearly 2.5 million square feet and lower overhead costs.
Although such decisions are extremely difficult because of their impact on our employees and the communities in which they live we will continue to take proactive actions when required to address our customers' challenges and remain competitive in the marketplace.
I'll now ask Bruce to go through some of the details of our 2013 financial performance and our 2014 financial guidance.
And then we'll open up the line for your questions.
Thank you Marillyn.
Good afternoon everyone.
As usual we've included web charts with our earnings release today that I'll be referencing as I go through my remarks.
Let's start with Chart 3 and an overview of last year's results.
Sales for the year were $45.4 billion a little higher than we had expected benefiting from a stronger than planned fourth quarter.
Segment operating margin was a record level of 12.7% exceeding last year's record level by 90 basis points.
Our earnings per share from continuing operations of $9.04 exceeded $9 for the first time and included the effects of two special charges in the fourth quarter which I'll discuss in more detail in a few charts.
Cash from operations was also stronger than we had out-looked helped by collections late in 2013 that had been expected in 2014.
This enabled us to generate $4.5 billion for the year while contributing an additional $750 million in the fourth quarter to our pension plans bringing the total amount of contributions for the year to $2.25 billion.
Finally we ended the year with a strong quarter for orders increasing our backlog to $82.6 billion the highest level in our history.
So I'm pleased with a very strong year of operational performance.
Chart 4 compares our sales and segment operating profit in 2013 versus 2012.
Sales were 4% lower than last year but were slightly higher than we had guided in the third quarter.
Segment operating profit on the other hand was 3% higher than last year despite the lower sales level and was higher than the top of the guidance we provided in the third quarter driven by stronger performance at Missiles and Fire Control.
Chart 5 shows our segment operating margins by each of the five business areas compared with last year's results.
Segment margins were comparable to last year's levels in two of our business areas and higher than last year in three business areas.
Missiles and Fire Control continued its strong performance in 2013 with each of its lines of business having higher margin in 2013 than in 2012.
Mission Systems and Training also had a significant improvement over 2012 due to strong overall performance and a successful resolution of contractual matters including two associated with the Presidential Helicopter program in the year.
Space Systems exceeded last year's record margin level with improved performance across the portfolio and higher equity earnings from the United Launch Alliance joint venture.
Aeronautics margins were comparable to last year with improved performance from multiple lines of business helping to offset the dilutive effects of additional F-35 volume.
And IS&amp;GS ended the year at the same margin as in 2012 and now has 12 consecutive quarters of 9% or higher margin.
Chart 6 is where we'll discuss the special charges that impacted the fourth quarter.
As is our practice in the fourth quarter we evaluated the goodwill on the balance sheet for any impairment; and this quarter our technical services business from Missiles and Fire Control is found to have a lower fair value than its book value resulting in $195 million non-cash charge to earnings or $0.54 per share.
This impairment reflects an ongoing reduction in the level of sales that technical services has generated in the past few years as well as lowered expectations for the future.
We're experiencing a heightened level of competitive bidding and awards which seem to place less relevance on past performance and discriminating attributes and more on simply lower costs.
This charge reflects our belief that this behavior will continue into the future.
We performed similar impairment tests for the remaining goodwill on the books and have no other reporting units that we believe are at risk of the goodwill charge at this time.
Our other special charge in the quarter was for client headcount reductions that affected several business areas.
In November of last year we filed an 8-K which announced restructuring activities at Space Systems MST and IS&amp;GS that included $171 million in severance charges or about $0.34 per share.
This amount does not include facility and other related charges of about $200 million that will occur in future periods.
In our guidance charts coming up I'll explain how the financial impact of the restructure is reflected in our 2014 guidance and how we expect to recover the vast majority of these costs in the future.
Moving to Chart 7 we'll review our 2013 earnings per share.
We increased earnings per share by 8% on a GAAP basis and nearly 15% excluding the impact of the goodwill charge in the fourth quarter.
On pension adjusted basis and also excluding the goodwill charge our EPS grew to $10.49 for the year.
On Chart 8 we'll discuss our cash return to shareholders in the year.
Our free cash flow for the year was $3.7 billion reflecting $4.5 billion in cash from operations and about $800 million in capital expenditures.
And with dividends of $1.5 billion and share repurchases of $1.8 billion we returned 89% of our free cash flow back to shareholders in the year.
Chart 9 shows our backlog performance for the past five years.
We've increased backlog each year since 2009 to the current record level of $82.6 billion.
While we said throughout the year that we bought backlog at the end of 2013 will be close to where we started the year there were a number of large moving pieces that enabled us to reach this level the most significant being a large order for NASA's Orion program that provides several years of funding rather than the recent trend of funding annual spend plans.
Our orders in the quarter were slightly more than $15 billion; meaning over $30 billion of our $45 billion or so of 2013 orders came in the second half of the year.
On Chart 10 we provide some of the key assumptions embedded in our 2014 guidance.
First our FAS/CAS pension adjustment provides nearly $350 million of income in 2014 compared with $150 million we discussed during the last call.
The adjustment is higher as our asset return was higher than we anticipated in October and we also contributed an additional $750 million to the pension trust in the fourth quarter.
2014 represents the first time since the financial crisis of 2008 that we expect to have both FAS/CAS income and positive cash from pension as recoveries are expected to exceed contributions.
Next we've not assumed the benefits from any extension of the R&amp;D tax credit.
This is obviously a change from 2013 when we had the benefits of two years of credits worth over $0.20 per share.
Finally we assumed a flat share count for the year with share repurchases offsetting the effects of new issuances and option exercises.
Inherent within that assumption is over $1 billion in repurchases and as usual will continue to be opportunistic repurchase activity.
Chart 11 provides our outlook for 2014.
We're providing orders in our outlook this year for the first time.
We always discuss our expectation for backlog during this fall and thought it would be helpful to give you our expectation for the order side of the backlog equation.
This year we're expecting orders between $41.5 billion and $43 billion which when compared with our sales outlook would indicate that backlog should remain above the $80 billion level this year.
Similar to last year we had several large orders which depending on when they closed could impact remaining backlog level for the year.
In particular we expect to finalize a C-130J multiyear order for 79 U.S.
aircraft worth more than $5 billion in the fourth quarter of this year but should it slip to the right it'd be difficult to achieve that $80 billion backlog amount.
Sales are expected to be slightly better than we indicated in October as a result of the higher orders received in 2013 and the recent budget agreement.
Segment profit and operating profit are expected to be the same this year with the FAS/CAS adjustment and our other allocated expenses offsetting each other.
Margin at the midpoint of our sales and segment profit guidance is 11.7% slightly higher than we indicated in October and this includes the 2014 impacts of our restructuring activities which were not included in our October trend information.
Earnings per share are expected to be in the $10.25 to $10.55 range and cash from operations is expected to be greater than or equal to $4.6 billion higher than what we generated in 2013 even with the cash received that moved into 2013 from 2014 and the restructure impacts in 2014.
And we had planned contributions of $1 billion into our pension plans for the year.
Chart 4 provides our sales and segment profit guidance ranges for each of the business areas.
Aeronautics is expected to grow sales to up to the mid single digits over the 2013 amount as a result of their 35 production growth.
At 2014 the F-35 program is expected to be as large or larger than any of our other four business areas.
Mission Systems and Training and Missiles and Fire Control are expected to be fairly comparable to their sales level in 2013 although IS&amp;GS and Space Systems are expected to have lower sales in 2014 than 2013.
For segment operating profit Aeronautics profit is expected to be higher than 2014 with slightly lower margins than in 2013.
IS&amp;GSs profit will follow the lower sales volume and Missile and Fire Controls profit is expect to be slightly lower in 2014 as some of the performance improvements that were achieved in the fourth quarter of last year had been expected to occur in 2014.
Mission Systems and Training and Space Systems both deserve a little more discussion.
MST is expected to have lower margin on essentially comparable sales for two reasons.
First the significant benefit from the contract revolutions associated with the Presidential Helicopter Program in 2013 will not repeat in 2014 and the 2014 impacts of the restructuring charges announced in November will also cause the margin to be lower.
For Space Systems we expect lower equity earnings this year compared with last year and will also experience the effects of the 2014 facility and other charges related to the restructuring announced in November.
Without these charges in 2014 we project that margins for MSP and Space Systems would be around 11% and 12% respectively in line with what we said in October.
On the next chart well describe these restructuring impacts in more detail.
So turning to Chart 13 in addition to the $171 million severance charge taken last year we expect around $200 million of facilities related charges to be recorded in segment operating results throughout 2014 and 2015 as we complete the consolidation activities and these impacts to profit and cash flow are included in the guidance were providing today.
These charges reduce Space Systems and MSPs 2014 segment operating profit by $55 million and $25 million respectively net of recoveries or about $0.16 of earnings per share and reduces operating cash flow by around $150 million mostly as a result of severance payments to be made this year.
We would expect a significantly lower impact to segment operating profit and operating cash flow in 2015 as we began to see additional recovery of the restructuring charges in our contract pricing and we would expect to recover the vast majority of both the severance and facility related charges in 2016 and beyond.
Well now turn to our summary on Chart 14.
2013 was a terrific year of operational performance by the company led to outstanding value increases for our share holders and gives us the solid foundation as we begin 2014.
We like where we have positioned our portfolio of products and services and were hopeful that well see the benefits of greater budget stability going forward.
I think with that Shannon were ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Doug Harned of Sanford Bernstein.
You may begin.
Thank you good afternoon.
Hi Doug.
Hello.
Im interested in your discussion of the international orders and if you could give a description of what the regional mix of your bookings has been in 2013? And then in particular theres been a lot of strong rhetoric coming out of the Middle East and some has been critical of U.S.
policies in the region.
Im interested in understanding are you seeing a slowing in the completion of contracts there; certainly theres been approvals for a lot of potential sales to that region but it appears you haven't really seen the commensurate amount of orders and Id say across the industry.
So perhaps you could comment on that.
Yes Doug Ill take the first part and I think Marillyn is probably better for the second half of the equation.
So Im trying to think like off the top of my head Im not sure Ive got the numbers committed to memory frankly for what it is by region.
So Ill give kind of a broad brush answer there.
I would say I did take a look at this.
I think 2013 we had the highest order of concept for international activity we had in the history of the corporation.
And as Marillyn said in her opening remarks I think our backlog right now in terms of international versus domestic is somewhere between 23% to 25% of our total backlog.
So one of the reasons weve tried to tee up the notion that we could grow our international sales from 17% to 20% is because we expected to see that backlog materialize in the form of those orders are they were received and well start to see.
We ended the year 2013 with 17% of our sales internationally youll see that number grow is our expectation in 2014.
Probably not quite to the 20% but a little bit below that is our expectation.
If I was to give sort of the regional split in 2014; yeah I think it's heavily weighted towards Asia and the Middle East Doug although I dont have the splits there.
I know weve got a number of orders that took place in our airlines business including some C-130 for Saudi Arabia.
We had a couple of 18 aircrafts for Iraq for F-16.
So while I dont have again the numbers committed to memory I am pretty certain Doug it would be heavily weighted towards Asia and the Middle East.
Doug Ill add on to that about your question relative to U.S.
policies and if thats pulling down the completion of contracts and how it's affecting our ability in sales around the world.
Over the past year I mean Ive literally flown around the world to a lot of different locations and spent a lot of time meeting with customers and listening to them.
And frankly what theyre looking for is for our help.
They face a lot of serious challenges relative to their national security and they also have a lot of citizen services that they need to conduct and so they are talking to us about specific areas of concern and things that we can help them with.
So I dont see an impact of U.S.
policies on the dialogue that Im having with them from the standpoint of our portfolio and what we can provide to them.
And our priority for me and for the leadership team is that we get out and we listen and we meet with them and we understand what it is that they want and need.
And frankly were very confident that were well positioned from growth because of the items that Bruce talked about but just in general our portfolio the Tactical Aircraft that we have the Airlift Mobility Aircraft our Integrated Air Missile Defense IT Cyber Security Space Situational Awareness I mean I could walk you around on portfolio.
These are the types of things that they need in their countries.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
You may begin.
Good afternoon.
Hi Sam.
Hi.
Bruce I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the cash flow.
I know you mentioned receivable collections in the fourth quarter.
But Im sure trying to look at 13 to 14 if you have $600 million more in CAS reimbursement than the contributions and youre going to make less contribution in general.
Why wouldnt cash from ops be higher than the $4.6 billion? Im trying to think about what is actually going against you whether its taxes receivables et cetera in 14 versus 13? Yes.
No a very perceptive question and so I think we had nearly $800 million use of cash if you will for pensions in 2013 and with $1.6 billion in recoveries and $1 billion of contributions were looking at about $600 million of positive cash in 2014.
So roughly a $1.4 billion swing I think thats at the heart of your question; why isnt that showing up in terms of cash differential between 2013 and 2014? So theres a lot of moving pieces to that question.
Recall in the fourth quarter of 2012 we made $2.5 billion pension contribution.
The tax benefits of that pension contribution showed up in the first quarter of 2013.
In the fourth quarter of 2013 we made $750 million pension contribution the tax benefits of that show up in the first quarter of 2014 and some of the 600 plus I think million dollar swing from just a taxes paid perspective for just the pension contributions made in 12 and 13 that affected tax paid in 13 and 14 if you follow that.
Secondly we had and if you ever heard about this we disclosed this in our 10-Q and 10-Ks we had some withholds associated with the business systems rules for systems like Earned Value Management and some others and almost all of the withholds associated with those activities were recovered in the year 2013 and those won't be replicated obviously in 2014.
We had the LRIP 5 and LRIP 6 contract definitizations for F-35 that occurred in 2013 and brought with it sort of some cash up cash for the definitization associated with those two contracts that again will not occur in 2014.
We had lower joint venture cash or are expecting lower joint venture cash in 2014 than just 2013 in part because of just lower volume but there was also some reimbursement items that the JV contributed to the parents [ph] in '13 that we'll replicate in '14.
And finally we got roughly $150 million or so restructured cash that's associated with the severance payments that we're making in 2014 that were higher than obviously mid 2013.
So I know there was a mouthful.
There was a lot of moving pieces there but that's sort of the lion's share if you will of why that pension cash swing doesn't translate necessary to even higher cash in 2014.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Bill Loomis of Stifel.
You may begin.
Hi.
Thank you.
Just going back to the goodwill write-down in technical services can you tell us what acquisition in the past that was related to or the type of work? And are you starting  I know you didn't have any goodwill write-downs in other areas but are these trends impacting any other businesses? And then just a follow-on question on the 30 million charge for lower of costs or market considerations if you can explain that a little more? Thanks.
Sure.
Bill I'll take those as well.
So the goodwill  once you start moving some of the businesses associated with the goodwill into different reporting units in the corporation unfortunately you kind of loose the track of the original business area in terms of where that goodwill resided.
And those businesses have been reorganized over the past few years so it's very difficult to kind of pinpoint sort of the original origin of the goodwill itself.
The type of businesses that this was acquired for are services businesses as the name implies technical services.
Think of that as a lot of in-country support of the troops so aircraft maintenance actually some aircraft piloting vehicle maintenance that sort of thing mostly Army in nature.
I think about three-quarters of this business or so is probably U.S.
Army base and as we've seen the reductions in troop drawdown in particular in Iraq and most recently in Afghanistan that the revenue volume of this business has dropped off fairly dramatically.
And again that's sort of what our expectations are going forward as well.
So let's see I think the other question was on the  well I should back up.
You asked the question about how does this translate  my words now how does this translate to other businesses? As I said in the prepared remarks we do do an annual impairment assessment at the end of every year.
And the types of contracts that are in tech services some of those types of contracts are in other parts the business.
I think as we sit here today as I said in my remarks we have clearance right now and we're not at this time concerned about another or being at risk of a goodwill impairment going forward and that's with the plans and expectations that we have in the long range planning that we put together here today.
So if that turns out to be different we'll revisit that next year.
And finally the $30 million as far as the cost to market we took a look at some inventory that we had on some of our contracts and just assessed that it's being worked  not worked as much as we had anticipated in some of our training and logistics businesses and I think that's a little bit reflected of just the way the market is playing out for us right now.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jason Gursky of Citi.
You may begin.
Good afternoon.
Hi Jason.
Just a quick clarification from you Bruce on the cash.
I was wondering  you went through all the puts and take I was wondering if you could just briefly talk about potential opportunities that you see would lead to upside in cash? And then Marillyn the rest of the question for me is on the portfolio and whether you feel that you've got the right mix of portfolio companies and businesses than what your view is on portfolio shaping given the current demand environment as you see it over the next couple of years? So Jason I'm assuming you're asking upsize for cash in 2014 versus say over time.
I think we have probably typical planning convention.
The special we do with some of our international contracts we tend to have assumptions of maybe less advances less positive cash flows in our planning than perhaps we actually end up negotiating.
I hope that's the case again this year.
We obviously have some contracts  some fairly large contracts that we hope to de-finitize.
I'd like to think we could get some of the billing arrangement with some of those contracts with slightly better terms than we have in our planning.
And that's been our history frankly.
I think we've been doing that and sort of improving our cash flow throughout the year.
I think the whole organization from sort of the business side to the program management side all has that as an objective and that's something that we strive for very hard.
So while not obviously embedded in the numbers I think that's something that we look at very earnestly at every opportunity to improve the cash terms we have going forward and I assure you we'll do that throughout the rest of the year and we'll keep you apprised of our progress for the next three quarters.
Let me just speak to portfolio Jason.
Your question around we have the right mix and what are we looking at over the next few years I would say if we just look at how we've built the backlog over the last 40 years that demonstrates the strength of our portfolio in recent years.
And as you look at the situation with the domestic budget with the U.S.
budget and our portfolio and the ability for our customers now to be able to focus on their priorities I think we're well aligned.
I'm very happy with our portfolio.
It looks like it will be well supported in the budget and we know that we have strong demand internationally for our missile defense for tactical aircraft air mobility the whole range of our primary platforms that we offer.
Even we're looking at opportunities for the Littoral Combat Ship variant and as well as the range of services businesses within IT and cyber security and the communication series.
So I'm very happy with the portfolio.
I think we're in very good shape for the next few years and we'll continue as we always do to assess it and adjust it as we need to.
But at this point I think it looks very good.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Rich Safran of Buckingham Research.
You may begin.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
I wanted to ask the capital deployment question.
Look at one point I think you were looking at possible mix shift maybe between dividends and share buybacks.
For 2014 are you still remaining committed to the dividend increases? Any thought here on consideration on M&amp;A? Just looking for any update on how you're thinking and what is  really what I'm interested in here? Thanks Rich.
I'm not quite ready obviously to declare a dividend increase.
We meet as a matter of course every September with the Board of Directors so that's when we discuss potential dividend increases and that will be the pattern we do this year.
So we've been  obviously it's pretty heavy on the dividend increase capacity here.
I'd like to think that we have the fire power to kind of continue to do that going forward.
When you look at the cash flow that we generated last year and the cash flow this year that our expectations of recovery of pension contributions in particular in addition to the normal operating cash flow in years to come I think that gives us the opportunity at least to do that.
So we gave guidance and/or embedded in our guidance this year was a little over $1 billion more than $1 billion of share repurchases.
That's just to offset dilution of share count.
And you should think of that  I may get these numbers slightly wrong but I know I'm pretty close here so we've got roughly 9 million to 10 million of shares outstanding at the end of  I should say options outstanding at the end of 2013.
We had roughly 10 million options exercised in the year 2013.
We kind of assumed a lower level than that in 2014.
Think about maybe half of that or little less.
And combined with I will say normal matching in our 401(k) which we do through share count matching and our executive compensation is probably another 3 million shares or so.
So it's probably about 8 million.
I may have the numbers slightly wrong but I think Im pretty close.
8 million shares $150 million bucks a share its probably about $1.2 billion or so of share repurchases.
We will offset any share count dilution thats caused by any additional options that are exercised above that level and then as I said in my opening remarks we will try to be opportunistic throughout the year for additional share repurchases beyond that.
On the M&amp;A side were constantly looking at that.
We dont -- obviously were not going to comment on anything until weve actually close on a deal but thats always a possibility.
I think weve been successful with the strategy we have used in the past.
I dont see any state of body [ph] lists that would change that strategy going forward and thats probably about as much as I can say on that right now Rich.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ron Epstein of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
You may begin.
Yes.
Hey good afternoon.
Hi Ronald.
Good afternoon.
Bruce just wanted to try to better understand the estimates at completion the EAC whatever you want to call it balance that you guys get right.
So just kind of looking historically last year it was almost half of your EBIT.
And when I look at your peer companies General Dynamics Raytheon Northrop how sustainable is that? How do we think about the EACs over time? And just if you can give us some more color on that -- I mean I guess what I worry about is if that gap were to start to close whats that mean? Why is it so high now that kind of thing? Yes.
Well thanks Ron good question.
So I think if you look at our historical -- first off let me comment I think youre higher at the level of profit adjustments as a percentage of the total earnings than what we really experienced.
So last year I just looked at this not too longer we were around 36% or so I believe the total earnings of segment EBIT.
Excuse me not total earnings but segment EBIT was in the form of the profit adjustments.
Thats not sort of out of family with what we experienced on sort of a steady-state basis.
I mean if I look -- as I look forward to the planned level of 2014 adjustments its not far off of that number.
I will tell you almost every year when we have a good year obviously that number grows from our initial plan and I sure hope the best what happens this year as well.
So I dont know exactly how to compare us with everyone else Ron.
I suspect we have different sort of philosophies as far as starting positions on booking profit on contracts.
Everyone has got a different lifecycle in their own portfolio as far as whether theyre way down the learning curve and have any new development or concurrent development going on with production that would suggest maybe starting a little lighter booking rate.
Some folks are further down selling only international activities where youre at a pretty good idea whats your products costs by that point of time you can probably start up booking at a higher profit level which would make you have lower step-ups lower profit adjustments.
I think ours is more comparable to us as opposed to anyone else and I dont see an issue at the levels were talking about for that diminishing going forward.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Peter Arment of Sterne Agee.
You may begin.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Yes.
Good afternoon Marillyn and Bruce.
Hi Peter.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Bruce could you give us an update on kind of the skyline of how the F-16 and the C-130 are looking? Looking out obviously you mentioned the C-130 in terms of domestic order potentially coming but what else does it look like? Youve got two very mature platforms here that seem to be trending down in volumes and affecting the mix shift here in margins? Yes.
Good question Peter.
So actually I think calendar year 2014 were actually going to see an increase in the deliveries of F-16s compared to what we delivered last year.
So in 2013 we delivered 13 F-16s.
I would expect that we will be north of 15 maybe 16 17 aircraft delivery in the year.
Our C-130 program and I should say those deliveries will probably go back I think of it probably in the one per month level for a couple of years.
But I think our backlog on the F-16 program today is through 2000 -- Im trying to do this from memory of course 16 17 somewhere in that range.
I will get that covered before the call before we are off from the call.
The C-130 deliveries we did 25 last year.
We kind of said that the rate will be building with C-130s going forward is 24 a month.
Im real confident particularly when you talk about the addition of multi-year aircraft at the levels we talked about.
Again 79 aircraft is what the -- just the U.S buy is on that multi-year program.
And thats going to enable us to continue with that 24 aircraft per year level for quite a while.
And I just remembered that I think the F-16 deliveries right now go up to almost the end of 2017.
So -- and again you should think of that there is probably one aircraft per month for the F-16 and roughly two aircraft a month for the C-130 for sort of that period through that timeframe.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
You may begin.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Yes.
Marillyn congratulations on a good -- a very solid first year.
My question is to you.
I was wondering if you could maybe give your impressions on maybe a couple of things you learned about the company that maybe you didnt know a year-ago or your impressions after your first year? And then perhaps more importantly going into your second year what are a couple of goals that you have that are specific to 2014 for Lockheed Martin that more specific than just meeting our financial goals and that sort of thing.
What do you really want to get done this year? Well thanks for the compliment there Joe.
I mean thats a team sport in this company.
So great credit goes to the entire team for what I would consider exceptional performance for the year.
It has been a very strong year.
And I think what we did in the past year has really positioned ourselves for continued success and a lot of work that the team has done or has been very proactive in strengthening our core business and our international business.
We have rolled out what we call Lockheed Martin International which is a leadership focus and resource focus at the enterprise level to grow our international business.
We already do a lot of business internationally in over 70 countries but we want to put a concerted focus on that from an enterprise view and bring the full depth and breadth and strength of our portfolio to the international marketplace.
So that is something we initiated in the middle of 13 and that will be one of the imperatives that we will be focused on as we move forward in 2014 and beyond.
Another thing that we initiated in a great way weve been on this path but we took it to another level with our proactive steps and streamlining our operations and improving our cost structure.
And as Bruce went through we announced several things in the fourth quarter.
Weve been on that path but we took it to another level of looking at our capacity utilization relative to what we see as our workload and making sure that we remain competitive and have that competitive position as we continue to grow in the future.
And then the third element that weve been focusing inside and outside the corporation on is our view of being a technology leader and our innovation.
We talk about innovation with purpose because its -- the missions that we support in our company are what attracts people to Lockheed Martin to work in this company because we do some of the most important work in the world.
But its work that involve very interesting and complex solutions that we bring to customers which means a lot of innovation and invention that our company does and we are going to stay focused on delivering those innovative solutions to what are the needs of our customers today but also as we look at what their needs are for tomorrow.
So we are continuing to invest in research and development and continuing to keep a climate for our workforce where they -- its an innovative culture that continues to focus on that.
As I said earlier I think weve got the right portfolio and the business in terms of meeting our customers needs.
We will constantly look at keeping that portfolio relevant continuing to invest in the things that we think our customers going to need.
So being that leading technology provider of doing everything from fighting cyber criminals to the fifth generation fighter thats addressing unique in needs around the world.
So my focus as we continue forward as a company is that were going to continue to our strategy that has been working focused on our core and international business and deliver those innovations while at the same time maintaining a focus on affordability and streamlining our operations.
The last thing I would add is that we have a strong focus on making sure that we're listening to our customers and that we are actively engaged with them on an ongoing basis so that as their needs change and as they face additional complexities whether it's budget pressures or global security challenges that we understand what their needs are and that we're there listening to help adjust those needs with the products and capabilities that we can bring forward.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
You may begin.
Hi.
Good afternoon and good quarter.
Thank you.
Marillyn I want to ask about something sort of bigger picture.
I think you've mentioned now the quality of the portfolio I think you mentioned a couple of times in your prepared remarks and in your response to several of the questions so far.
Just seeing the pickup on that as sort of a theme and I wondered if you might elaborate on that and specifically and how you think the performance differentials between you and your peers might actually play out over the coming years and how you think about balancing that fine line between what has been a pretty cost focused and affordability focused strategy to perhaps one that's more revenue focused and perhaps technology focused as you just mentioned? Is there a  am I catching a sort of shift in how you're thinking about running the business relative to maybe the way your competitors are thinking? Anything to elaborate there would be helpful.
Sure.
Thanks for the questions.
I don't think you should sense a major shift in our strategy.
We have a strategy that we've been working on relative to our core business.
It's just where we are going to market as we look at what's happening in the domestic business and budget; it's going to be flat for the next couple of years.
So we recognize in order for us to maintain and hopefully grow our businesses to align with where our customers are have the budgets and have the needs for our products which is in the pivot to Asia as well as in the Middle East.
So a lot of things that we offer in those regions is because that's where the demand is and actually that's where U.S.
government services are focusing and that's a good integration where we can bring our products and capabilities.
Relative to the portfolio I mean I think if you just step back and look at  let's begin with the Joint Strike Fighter the F-35 that's a very significant element of our portfolio.
It is one that represents 16% of our revenue in 2013 and it's going to continue to grow.
We've got the eight international partners.
We have security cooperation partners with digital in Japan.
We have other countries that are looking at it with South Korea with Singapore with others that I think will  that are interested in the Middle East that have expressed their interests.
So I still see that as something that is a differentiator for us because no one else has a fifth generation fighter and it's a unique capability that is needed around the world.
At the same time the F-16 as Bruce was talking about the backlog on the F-16 there is still a strong demand for the F-16 around the world and there are opportunities for upgrades.
We're doing the upgrades in Taiwan opportunities in Singapore and we'll see other opportunities here.
So that piece of our business continues.
Missile defense in that arena with THAAD PAC-3 the Aegis Systems MEADS and our opportunities for MEADS all affordable systems that have the full domain and very strong in terms of air and missile defense.
And then the whole satellite components to come with that as well.
Our targeting systems with Sniper MTAD Arrowhead those also continue to be in demand around the world; cyber security C4ISR.
If you just step back and look at this portfolio and the range of capabilities we have and the depth and breadth and experience that we have I really stand behind the fact I do believe we have the best portfolio the best positioned portfolio for the needs today.
And we're not going to rest on our laurels we're going to continue to invest in that portfolio and continue to keep it relevant and stay abreast of where our customers are moving and invest in technologies and things that take them forward.
You've probably seen similar things that we're looking at in terms of longer range opportunities directed energy or advanced capabilities and manufacturing advance materials in the energy space.
So we've got a lot of things that are more in our adjacent areas and areas that both in our core are adjacent that we're going to continue to invest in.
But the basic core portfolio that we have is well positioned and I think well supported by the U.S.
budget and great demand internationally.
Carter the only thing I might add as I'm listening to Marillyn there is I think we've got a really interesting sort of situation where the products that we are developing are not  and that we anticipate the ability to sell in production and particularly to sell internationally are not long-tenured products.
We've got capabilities.
We have some of those as well obviously with C-130 and F-16s but no one has sort of the current air missile defense products that we have in terms of MEADS in terms of Littoral Combat Ships from a naval perspective in terms of an F-35.
So we're kind of uniquely positioned that a lot of our products are through the developmental cycle.
There will be quite a bit of time before you see new products develop just because there's going to be a delay in new starts with the fiscal pressures that we're facing.
And our portfolio is available now and has sort of got the good backing of the U.S.
Military behind us.
Now I think that's got us very uniquely positioned.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
You may begin.
Hi.
Good afternoon everybody.
Good afternoon.
I don't know if this is for Marillyn or Bruce or both but it feels to me like one of the bigger debates in this space right now is if a company like Lockheed Martin can forecast that revenues will be flat in 2014 despite all of the churn mostly downward in the defense budget argument one is that that's largely everything you're talking about with the portfolio being differentiated versus the industry.
Argument two is that that's almost entirely the lag effect between the decline in authority in 2012 and 2013 and that there is another shoot or drop if you will on the top line in 2015 and 2016.
And I know you're only starting to talk about '14 today officially but I thought perhaps now that you have a '14 budget and some discussion of the '15 request maybe a little more insight into the Pentagon strategy moving forward if you could shed a little bit more light on which of those you'd think it is? I'll take the first shot and Marillyn can provide some color commentary on that.
But it's an interesting question.
I think it's one that we've talked about ourselves internally as well.
And sort of the heart of your question I think is so have we bottomed out or not? And you posed two different scenarios there.
One is the value of the portfolio and then sort of the lag effect of the budget authority.
I do believe as Marillyn has said quite vividly that the portfolio that we have is differentiated I think that is what's enabled us to survive without having huge drops year-over-year.
I think the part that again people are missing when we talk about the effects of sequestration where we are right now is our portfolio pre-sequestration would have been growing in these periods of times.
So we are seeing reductions but the reductions are taking us back to sort of a flat scenario as opposed to taking us to a negative gross scenario.
And I get the point believe me that our outlook for 2014 is below '13 and '13 was below '12 but going forward from '14 '15 I think we're going to be  hopefully we've hit the bottom.
If not I think we're very very close to that between '14 '15.
And if you just take a look at the budget agreement that was signed this past week and a half or whatever that provided the incremental benefits over a full sequestration for fiscal year '14 and '15 that essentially makes the DoD top line kind of flat.
And then if you take a look at FY '16 under sequestration today that actually shows a slight increase over the FY '15 levels as we sit here today.
So I'm I'll say cautiously optimistic.
We've sort of reached bottom and that we have  at least for Lockheed Martin we have the opportunity to see some growth in the not too distant future.
I don't have much to add to that.
We have looked at it closely.
Of course the DoD budget is something we watch closely and so as we saw the bill get passed and looked at the outlook I mean we're basically flat for the next two years within that budget does start to increase.
So when you take that coupled with our strong portfolio and the ability for the DoD to decide where they want to spend their money as opposed to it being an across the board cut we think we are well positioned and allowing them to make those kinds of decisions through a non-sequestration environment is what how we're going to hold up well and we will be differentiated.
So I am of the mind that we're -- as Bruce said we have looked at it a lot we are at the bottom or near the bottom and we should see an increase in the next few years.
III</strong> Shannon this is Jerry.
I think weve cover up an hour.
Maybe one more question then well turn it back to Marillyn for final thoughts.
Our next question is from Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
You may begin.
Thank you very much.
Good afternoon.
Marillyn you had a chance probably to go through the '14 budget in a pretty fine detail now and if you look to your point you clearly have a lot of important foundation programs that do make Lockheed differentiated.
Could you address a little bit where some of the shortfalls are versus what's it like? And also flat in one sense is good but the reality is you still have some inflation so you have to find productivity and other measures to make up for that.
So really the question is sort of where are the holes you have to fill which are probably a couple and then what about more productivity measures beyond what you've done? Well first of all I mean there is strong support for our program as we've looked at it across the entire portfolio and we've looked at every one of our major programs to see how they hold up and I would say in large measure that we are strongly supported.
The F-35 showed some cuts but it appears that those are primarily in the government fund side.
If you look at our multi-year order on Orion the opportunities we have for multi-year on C-130J and its just a matter of getting through that process.
I think we are in a good position.
In terms of your comments about inflation and continuing to stay after managing our cost we are absolutely going to do that.
This is a team that understands that this leadership team is well experienced of that and we work it every day and we'll continue to do so.
We're not going -- we've been I think very proactive over the last several years and we've recognized that that is an ongoing thing to constantly stay abreast of what our cost positions are and streamline our business so that we can continue to be competitive.
But I assure you Howard (audio break) Marillyn is relentless when it comes to her (technical difficulty).
No were not perfect as any business is not perfect.
But when we look at the breadth of our business and the ability to bring our very talented workforce to bear with the technologies and opportunities that we have to keep our business relevant there's no program that's out there no major one that's sun setting and we look at our production rates there either maintaining or they're growing across our major programs.
So I think I stand by my position.
We got a strong portfolio and we're going to weather this flat period and then continue to grow.
So let me just wrap up for the call today.
I appreciate all the questions from all of you today and I just want to conclude by saying again that I believe that our 2013 results mark another year of continued high performance in a challenging environment and they demonstrate that we continue to be well positioned to provide solutions to our customers and value to our shareholders.
If you look at our records backlog of work our robust cash generation our solid balance sheet and the exceptional execution of our employees I'm confident that it's going to continue to propel our corporation forward in 2014 and beyond.
And it's really due to the integrity the performance and the innovation of our workforce that we're going to be able to support our customers in their essential mission.
So thank you again for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to speaking with you in our next earnings call in April.
Shannon that concludes our call today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good day.
And welcome everyone to the Lockheed Martin First Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Todays call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Stephanie and good morning everyone.
Id like to welcome you to our first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Marillyn Hewson our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Statements made in today's call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities Law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see todays press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Marillyn.
Thanks Jerry.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call today.
We are pleased to have you with us to review our first quarter results.
As todays release details we had an exceptionally strong quarter financially and operationally.
The Corporation continued to operate at a very high level and returning value to stockholders while delivering critical solutions to our customers.
Our Lockheed Martin team delivered broad-based results across the Corporation and I am extraordinarily proud of their focus and efforts.
I want to highlight a few key achievements in the quarter and then Bruce will follow my remarks and cover the balance of the financial metrics in more detail.
Financial results for the first quarter of 2014 were higher in almost every metric than the first quarter last year other than a slight decline in sales.
While sales decreased in the quarter they were better than our plan and we remain on track to achieve our full year sales guidance.
Noteworthy financial accomplishments were securing new order bookings significantly above last year's level and a direct reflection of our portfolio alignment with customer requirements.
This strong program alignment is essential as customers allocate resources in todays constrained budget environment.
Beyond our solid order bookings net earnings and earnings per share each increased over 20% while segment operating margin matched the high point in our corporate history at 13.4%.
Through our continues focus on cash generation we delivered over $2 billion in cash from operations in the quarter strong and growing cash generation is a hallmark of our Corporation and a key differentiator in returning value to stockholders while enabling continued investments in the future of our business.
Im very pleased that strong year-to-date financial performance enabled us to increase full year 2014 guidance for segment operating profit earnings per share and cash from operations.
In addition to the increased guidance we were also able to reaffirm our full year orders and sales guidance based on bookings to-date and existing backlog composition.
This level of financial performance is a direct reflection of our world-class team as they deliver results on a daily basis to our customers and stockholders and I thank everyone for their efforts.
In addition to the strong financial results we continue to deploy our robust cash flow in the areas of share repurchases and dividend payments returning value to our stockholders.
In the quarter we repurchased over $1 billion of our shares more than double the amount we expended in the same period last year.
These repurchases combined with our industry leading per share dividend payment returned approximately $1.6 billion in cash to stockholders.
Turning briefly to DoD budgets.
In early March the President released his formal fiscal year 2015 base defense budget at just below $500 billion.
This budget is flat with FY 2014 and its consistent with the two-year Bipartisan Budget Act caps established last December.
The President also proposed adding an additional $26 billion to the 2015 DoD base budget for opportunity growth and security initiatives.
If approved these additional funds will be used primarily to increase budget for procurement and operations and maintenance activities.
The initial outline of base budget allocation signals solid support for our portfolio of programs.
And we look forward to finalization of Congressional budget deliberations which are expected to be completed later this year.
Moving outside DoD budget momentum continues to build in effort supporting our newly launched Lockheed Martin International organization and international expansion strategy.
This past quarter I had the opportunity to travel to multiple countries in both Europe and the Middle East to participate in wide-ranging discussions on our spectrum of products and services and the increasingly complex geopolitical environment which requires agile and adaptive solutions for potential overseas customers.
While in the Middle East I was able to tour our future Center for Innovation and Security Solutions in the UAE.
This center will expand our collaboration with UAE government academia and local business partners in helping bring forward new technologies.
Future technology applications are expected to be in area such as cyber security integrated air and missile defense and other security-related areas.
This center will be another link in our long-standing partnership with the people and government of the UAE.
My time in Israel enabled me to meet with the Prime Minister participate in the opening of the new Lockheed Martin office in Beer Sheva expanding our Information Systems &amp; Global Solutions presence and lastly celebrate the arrival of the first Super Hercules C-130J to the Israeli fleet with its unmatched airlift capabilities.
We continue to see strong and expanding International interest in our air and missile defense products air mobility tactical aircraft and cyber security.
These areas are already showing growth in our financials as we were able to expand the international content of total corporate revenues this past quarter.
We remain solidly on track towards our goal of achieving at least 20% of international sales in the next year or so.
Id like to move to the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and provide some color on the favorable progress the program is achieving in securing domestic and international customer support and reaching key technical milestones.
New business support of the program continues to grow both domestically and internationally with increased levels of annual aircraft order quantities.
While the current DoD budget cap agreements for FY 14 and FY 15 resulted in some near term reductions and deferrals of planned F-35 aircraft quantities the revised order profile still shows significant annual growth.
Fiscal year 14 order quantities for new aircraft are projected to increase by over 20% above prior fiscal years levels.
And fiscal year 15 budget projections reflect an additional expansion of over 30% in new aircraft orders.
These increases in projected annual aircraft order quantities are indicative of increasing aircraft maturity and growing customer demand for this revolutionary fifth generation fighter.
International support of the program is also expanding and helping mitigate domestic pressures from constrained budgets.
Another key new business milestone achieved this past quarter was the formal announcement by the Republic of Korea to procure the F-35 for its F-X fighter acquisition program.
Their decision involved the comprehensive evaluation process of competitive aircraft and makes Korea the third foreign military sales country and 12th country overall to select the F-35.
We look forward to supporting the discussions between this valued ally and the U.S.
government to formalize an agreement and add a multibillion-dollar order to our backlog of future F-35 work.
Turning to the development program while new technical accomplishments were achieved on a daily basis this quarter included the key completion of all flight test objectives of the carrier variant aircraft using the redesigned tailhook system.
Success of the newly certified arresting hook clears the way for the aircraft to conduct sea trials for the U.S.
Navy in October and move the carrier variant another step closer to joining the fleet.
In the area of software we are making good progress on the Version 2B software that will enable initial operating capability of the STOVL aircraft in 2015.
And we are progressing on Version 3I software that will enable the planned IOC for the Air Force variant aircraft in 2016.
Finally we look forward to showcasing the F-35 which head overseas in July to fly at the Royal International Air Tattoo and the Farnborough Air Show in the United Kingdom.
This will mark the aircrafts first appearance outside the U.S.
and enable world audience to see some of the revolutionary capabilities of this next generation fighter.
Overall the F-35 program is retiring development risk and increasing production tempo while reducing program costs.
Shifting the focus on my remarks to portfolio shaping we recently completed our acquisition of industrial defender a leading provider of Cyber Security Solutions for industrial control systems to monitor manage and protect critical infrastructures in such areas as electric power grids chemical facilities and oil and gas pipelines.
Industrial Defenders offerings provide cyber security for automation system and operational environments in our national extension and strengthening of our existing IT cyber security business suite of solutions for domestic and international customers.
This addition will enable us to offer an even more comprehensive spectrum of technology and services designed to face modern-day threats to those operational and information security.
Before turning the call over to Bruce I want to say that we are enormously proud to receive the 2014 Catalyst Award this past quarter as recognition of our initiatives to expand opportunities for women in business.
Were pleased to be the first aerospace and defense company to receive this award as recognition of the progress weve made in ensuring womens voices are contributing to the diverse perspective so essential in todays competitive landscape.
Embracing diversity is a business imperative of our corporation.
It drives innovation and performance and it helps create and utilize the full potential of our teams human capital.
Ill now ask Bruce to go through the details of the first quarter financial performance and our increased 2014 guidance.
And then well open up the line for questions.
Thanks Marillyn.
Good morning everyone.
As I highlight our key financial accomplishments please follow along with web charts that we included with our earnings release today.
So lets start with Chart 3 an overview of the quarter.
Sales in the quarter were $10.7 billion down slightly from last year but in line with our expectations for the start of this year.
Segment operating margin was very strong at 13.4% and this performance along with the improvement in our FAS/CAS Pension adjustment increased earnings per share by 23% to $2.87.
We generated $2.1 billion in cash from operations the same amount as in the first quarter of last year and returned $1.6 billion to shareholders.
And we increased our outlook for operating profit EPS and cash from operations.
So were off to a good start in 2014 extending upon our strong performance from 2013.
Turning to Chart 4 and comparing our sales and segment operating margin results for the first quarter of this year versus last year overall sales were down 4% compared with last year.
But as I just noted this was in line with our expectations and we expect to have sequential top line growth for the remainder of 2014.
Segment operating margin matched our highest level ever at 13.4% and was broad based across our business areas as well outline on the next chart.
Chart 5 shows the segment operating margins improve significantly over our results from a year ago.
Four business areas had higher margins this quarter compared with last year with the increases for missiles and fire control and mission systems and training leading to our increased segment operating profit outlook for the year.
As expected aeronautics margin was slightly lower than last year due to a change in the program mix.
On Chart 6 well reconcile our earnings per share compared with the first quarter of last year.
EPS in the quarter was 23% higher than a year ago driven primarily by the FAS/CAS adjustment improvement from an expense last year to income this year along with improved segment operating margin results we just discussed.
Partially offsetting this increase was the lower volume this quarter and a substantial R&amp;D tax credit in 2013 that was not repeated this year.
If youll turn to Chart 7 well discuss our cash generation and deployment in the quarter.
Cash generated in the quarter was very strong at $2.1 billion.
This was similar to our cash generated in the first quarter of last year.
The last year had nearly $350 million more in tax refunds associated with pension contributions than we had this year.
And with free cash flow of $2 billion in cash return to shareholders of just under $1.6 billion we returned 78% of free cash flow in the quarter.
Also similar to last year we expect that cash generated in the first quarter will be the highest for the year as we have both pension contributions and tax payments planned in future quarters that did not occur in the first quarter.
On Chart 8 well look at our share repurchases in more detail.
We repurchased 7 million shares in the quarter significantly more than what we did in the first quarter of 2013.
This more than offset shares added from option exercises.
The stock match on our 401(k) plans and shares issued for the vesting of restricted stock as our net share count was reduced by about 4 million shares.
Since we began our repurchase program at the end of 2002 we have reduced our share count by a net of approximately 31% to our current level of just over 315 million shares.
Moving onto Chart 9.
Well discuss our updated view of the guidance for the year.
We are reaffirming our guidance for both orders and sales as our first quarter results were in line with our expectations.
As I mentioned earlier sales are expected to grow sequentially throughout the year.
Our orders are heavily weighted towards the second half of the year and especially in the fourth quarter similar to what we experienced last year.
We increased our segment operating profit guidance by $75 million driven by the strong performance of missiles and fire control and mission systems and training in the first quarter.
We increased our outlook for earnings per share by $0.25 and well describe that in more detail on the next chart.
And we increased our cash from operations outlook by $100 million to greater than or equal to $4.7 billion recognizing our strong start to the year.
Chart 10 provides the reconciliation of our prior outlook for EPS compared with our new outlook.
Our $75 million increase in segment operating profit results in $0.15 increase in earnings per share while our significant repurchase activity results in a lower average share count for the year that improves earnings per share by another $0.10.
As a result our EPS guidance is now $10.50 to $10.80 per share.
Moving to Chart 11.
Our first quarter sales performance and nearly $80 billion in backlog enabled us to reaffirm our sales outlook for each of the business areas and in total.
On Chart 12 we show our new segment operating profit outlook by business area and in total.
We increased our outlook for mission systems and training by $45 million and missiles and fire control by $30 million resulting in the overall increase of $75 million for the corporation.
And finally Chart 13 summarizes or provides a summary for the quarter.
The first quarter represents another strong performance by the company with broad-based results operationally and financially.
We had very good program execution and continue to take proactive measures that benefits our customers our employees and our stockholders.
With that were ready for questions.
Stephanie? (Operator Instruction) Our first question comes from Robert Stallard with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Bruce I hate to kickoff with pension but I will.
I was wondering if you could give us an update on what you expect to see from the CAS side over the next say two to three years and also whats your expectations for pension contributions? Thanks very much.
Yeah.
So Rob there is a couple of moving pieces going on with the pension discussion; Ill try to capture in my response to your question there.
So CAS is going to increase fairly significantly over the next couple of years.
And I would expect that our cash contributions to our pension trust will probably be at a level close to what were experiencing this year and maybe drop off a little bit in the year whats that 2016 the year after next.
But importantly within the discussion of pension in the near term is we do expect to see we just had released a new mortality table that weve kind of teed up I think a few quarters back.
And we would expect to incorporate that at the next re-measurement of our pension plans.
And as at least as I think about the effects of that mortality table change sort of with current assumptions for the discount rate and asset returns if those were held constant sort of current course and speed as we usually do.
Wed expect to see both FAS expense and CAS to be higher in 2015 than it would have been without the mortality change and FAS will actually increase by a greater amount than will CAS.
So that alone would result in a slight reduction of FAS/CAS income than what it otherwise would have been.
But you should think of this as still being significantly greater at the end of the day in 2015 than what we experienced in 2015 on the order of magnitude of maybe 2x what we are seeing in 2014.
Cash on the other hand is likely to see some near-term benefit because we have been accelerating our pension contribution as required under ERISA.
And so we are actually sitting pretty nicely even with the effects of the mortality table required cash contributions those will come in sort of later years for us.
But the CAS impact the Cost Accounting Standards impact will be updated prior to those required ERISA contributions so we will actually get as I said a bit of a near-term cash net cash benefit.
Ive said a lot there hopefully that all made sense to you there.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol with J.P.
Morgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Joe.
My question is on the share repurchase plan that you guys have been offsetting for two plus years the options issuance et cetera.
In this quarter for the first time in over two years you broke below that 319 level.
I was just wondering if you could comment on I guess the strategy with share repurchase now are you looking at reducing the share count going forward or is this just a quarterly timing issue? Thanks.
I will try that one as well Joe.
So good question.
As I think about share repurchase I will give you kind of a winding answer here.
Weve always said we are committed to offsetting share count creep by offsetting the dilutive effects in particular by option exercises.
But Id remind you that we also especially in the first part of the year we also increased share count for the vesting of our restricted stock units.
And all throughout the year we make additional contributions to our 401(k) match in the form of stock as well.
So those numbers tend to creep up throughout the year and what weve said historically as well as this year is that we intend to offset that dilutive effect as I said.
We also try to be opportunistic.
We will do the same this year.
And at least as I think of the next three quarters or so Joe weve offset most of the effect of both well clearly of the option exercise that took place in the first quarter as well as the RSU vesting.
We will continue to offset those option exercises and the 401(k) matches as they occur over the next three quarters.
There is some variability that might play into how much we buyback associate with any potential acquisitions if any that we would make in the rest of the year.
So sort of depending on all of the things I just described the level of option exercises potential acquisitions if any we could see repos at a level that would bring cash on the balance sheet about back to the level we started the year with and we started the year with about $2.6 billion.
I recognize thats not what we have reflected in our current guidance but thats kind of the way Im thinking about it right now.
And maybe just one final point.
I think we started the year a little under 10 million options available to be exercised.
We had about 2.3 million exercised in the first quarter so if you sort of annualize that and thats an assumption on my part that will be spread equally there over the next few quarters.
We will be at about the same level of option exercise as we were last year 9 million plus and that would leave us literally at the end of this year with less than 1 million options left to be vested.
So clearly our rate of dilution if you will will start to diminish pretty significantly at the end of this year.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Actually two questions slide one as a clarification.
MST the implied margins for the remaining nine months can you give us some color on why the step down obviously outsized performance here in the first quarter but even that looks like the step down the last nine months you can help with.
And the other is the C-130 margins I think they are pretty impressive in terms of the margin expansion in C-130.
In 13 it looks like you had more margin expansion here in the first quarter.
When you transition to that next multi-year is that something we have to think about a step down with? Thanks.
I'll give a shot at that Myles and see if Marillyn has any color she wants to add to it.
So MST might look a little unusual for a couple of reasons.
We did have a very strong first quarter of the year from an EBIT perspective and that kind of came in two flavors one was we had some accelerated risk retirements that were actually planned for later in the year that simply because of good performance were accelerated into the first quarter that obviously won't be a change to the year.
But on the other hand we actually had some just outright stronger performance than we had expected in the plan.
And that's the amount if you will that we increased the full year outlook by for MST.
The piece that might be missing a little bit in your thinking is recall in the January call we talked about the restructure cost and the phasing of some of the expenses.
These are expenses for a number of things accelerated depreciation some of the facility's movement personnel movements and so forth personnel relocation I should say.
And we talked about that being about $80 million for the year.
MST was about $25 million of that and Space Systems was at about $55 million of that and we expected to hit EBIT.
I think I described that as about $0.16 hit to EPS overall had it not been for that restructure charge.
And nearly all of that $25 million is going to fall in the last three quarters of the year for MST.
So the same thing with Space by the way well you didn't ask about Space.
The vast majority so I think probably of the $80 million $75 million or so of that remaining restructure expense that we expect to incur in 2014 will hit the next three quarters and just about equally spread about $25 million a quarter.
So that's contributing to not just the MST scenario but the lower going forward scenario for Space Systems as well.
Now having said all that as I look at the business areas and where we sit today versus where we expect to be at the end of the year I do think we have some potential upside pressure especially at MST and maybe a couple of the other business areas as well.
But it's just a little too early in the quarter -- excuse me a little too early in the year to recognize that goodness at this time.
I'm sorry C-130.
Yeah I forgot you'd asked about C-130.
So they were stronger to your point in the first quarter Myles than they were last year.
We had some step-ups associated with a couple of either completions or near completions of some contracts that to your point also are in advance of the multi-year.
As usual whenever we kind of get to the end of a contract is when you'll see the majority of those risk retirements take place.
I think the multi-year as with all sort of DoD contracts we started -- sort of started with a new sheet of paper in terms of starting with the cost at the lower level than maybe where we had on the previous contract.
So risk retirements theoretically should be tougher from that lower number to begin with.
So I think your question is the right one and we'll just have to continue to see the sign of performance that we've had in the past.
I'd like to think that we have with the international mix going forward and the international interest and not all of those FMS sale variety that we have some potential to keep the C-130 program close to where we are today.
But you are absolutely right that there is some pressure going into the multi-year side of things.
Our next question comes from David Strauss with UBS.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning David.
On F-35 it looks like most of the growth that you're anticipating over the next couple years is on the international side.
And Marillyn you did address Korea coming into the fold but how do you feel about overall the stability on the international side? It sounds like Italy's a little wobbly Canada is obviously reevaluating things just how confident are you that this backlog is pretty secure? Thanks.
Thanks for the question David.
And I would say we're pretty confident.
I mean we look at the next five years close to half of our orders in the next five years will come from international customers on the F-35 program.
Each one of these customers partners they go to their process they periodically look at their security and their defense needs and they have to go through a decision process that we are confident when you look at South Koreans making their formal announcement.
Israel we could potentially see additional for Israel.
Australia is they moved through their procurement plan.
At some time in the future we think Singapore will revisit the F-35 and determine when they want to buy.
Canada is in their procurement process and working through that.
So we feel confident that the unique capabilities of the F-35 is going to make it remain the best choice for these customers and expect it to see that go forward.
Our next question comes from Richard Safran with Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Hi Rich.
I just wanted to ask a relatively simple question here about your outlook and your bookings guidance.
So I noted that you didn't change it I understand.
But I thought maybe you could give us a bit of an update here on your booking guidance overall that you reported when you reported 4Q.
Can you tell us maybe for example what has to happen to achieve or exceed the high end of the range and just how you're looking at it now? Yes.
So I'll fill it out Rich.
There is a lot of moving pieces.
It's a simple question but may not be the simple answer.
There is a lot of moving pieces as you would expect at this point in the year from sort of on orders or booking outlook as you described it.
So I think were actually pleased.
I know the book-to-bill might have seemed a little light to some but were actually pleased.
We actually exceeded our estimate of what we are expecting to receive from an orders perspective in the first quarter and a lot of that frankly was international content.
So we are pleased with that as well.
As I look forward in the next few quarters I would think we should probably see a similar pattern to last year.
I think if I was a betting person I would say the next two quarters will probably receive about $10 billion plus or minus each in the next few quarters.
The biggest single order in the second quarter we are expecting is closing on the Lot 8 F-35 proposal which by itself is probably worth about $3.5 billion.
There is also the FY '14 buy for the C-5 program think of that as $600 million or so and international PAC-3 for probably $0.5 billion -- $600 million the FY '14 buy of the fleet ballistic missile about $0.5 billion and then several satellites including our spacecraft 7 and 8 from the GPS III program and a commercial satellite that collectively is about $0.5 billion in total.
So all of that collectively again as we say I think it's about $10 billion a quarter both in the second and third.
And then somewhere until summer we would expect to see a pretty good sized spike in the fourth quarter.
If you just sort of back into the numbers from where we are today that's probably about -- the numbers that I just gave you that's probably about $16 billion or so in the fourth quarter.
The biggest single item there is the C-130J multi-year that's close to $5 billion but that's really when we get all of our sort of new government fiscal year orders.
So that's not an unusual pattern that we would expect to see there.
We ended the first quarter like I said a little higher than we thought maybe at just below $80 billion and we still think we've got a chance to be above $80 billion as we get towards the end of the year.
Our next question comes from Jason Gursky from Citi.
Your line is open.
Hi Jason.
Bruce Ive got a quick follow-up question for you and then just one quick one.
On the follow-up you talked about the impacts of the mortality tables and there being higher FAS relative to CAS as a result of the change in the mortality table.
Is there a way for you to quantify in some sort of range how much higher the FAS might be when the CAS is a result of the change of the mortality table? Then my question is on CapEx you came in at a run rate of only $400 million for the year which would be down significantly year-on-year.
So I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the trajectory of CapEx to the rest of this year the rate they will exit the year and what that production tied to the CapEx is in the '15 and '16? Jason I'll try that one.
So I should have said on the -- actually the first question we probably shouldn't refer to it as the mortality table.
We actually like the term longevity table.
It just somehow sounds more appealing to us than we talk about mortality.
So we'll start from now on calling it a longevity table.
So I did try to tee up that we'd see an increase in both FAS and CAS as soon as that is included in our remeasurement.
I did not mean to imply that FAS will be higher than CAS simply that change in FAS will be higher than the change in CAS if that makes sense.
But even with that and that was the point I was trying to get to Jason even with that saying that our pension income if you will will be lower than it otherwise would have been without the mortality table we would still expect to see our FAS/CAS adjustment more than double from where we are today.
So where are we about $435 million or so today that number is and this again as my usual caveat current course and speed on the discount rate and asset return but as we see the longevity table impact in 2015 that number is north of $800 million.
So and then beyond that Jason that number sort of continues to increase in the out years at least for the next couple of years beyond 2015.
So I look at CapEx in the first quarter we're almost historically low.
And I wish that were not the case frankly but it just takes a while sometimes for us to sort of break the gears loose on the CapEx.
Last year in the first quarter I think we did just north of $100 million like $103 million or something this year believe it or not we're actually a little higher at a $106 million.
So we do expect to see just as we did last year to kind of close on the number that we included when we give our free cash flow for the year.
We do have some pretty good size items including some restructure capital for the facilities movements that we talked last year or January of this year including the space systems consolidation that are yet to play out but those are bigger than maybe some of the ones we would typically have in an annual year and that is expected to happen in the next three quarters.
Our next question comes from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Doug.
On the F-35 we saw a reduction of quantities for the C-model in the President's budget and there is the potential for further reductions in quantities if we see sequestration in 2016.
Now I know that your pricing for the program is volume dependent but can you describe the impact if there is any on program margins related to the 2015 cuts and what could happen to margins if sequestration goes into effect and we would see further cuts given the way you've structured these contracts?  So I'll take a shot at that Doug.
So it's not inconsequential but it's maybe not as large as you might otherwise think.
So clearly we will price the current fiscal year offering Lot 8 in this case with sort of the known quantities and run those known quantities through our overhead rates which is where some of the variability would come in from the quantity changes so that we would capture that in sort of the instant contract that we're pricing.
Where we may have a bit of pressure is prior contracts so Lot 6 and 7 for instance would have been priced with an assumed higher quantity of F-35s going forward in Lot 8 and beyond.
So sort of the overhead absorption impact of losing those quantities of aircraft will play out and hit if you will some of the performance of Lot 6 and 7.
Obviously we will try to mitigate as much of that as possible but unfortunately not all of our overhead is 100% variable.
So some portion of the fixed cost will get spread in any event.
So -- and the other side of that is not so much on 6 and 7 but some of the prior aircraft and some of the other businesses with our contracts within Aeronautics are flexibly priced cost plus in nature or fixed price incentive in nature.
So there will be some sharing of those cost increases result of that base deterioration.
I should remind you that all this has yet to play out completely because for instance the program of record which is what we've tied to on the F-35 program.
So while it would have had higher domestic quantities of aircraft than what were pricing the previous few lots on that program of record for instance did not include the South Korean aircraft quantities in it.
So there is at least hopefully somewhat of a mitigating aspect of that in the not too distant future.
Our next question comes from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning Noah.
Bruce going back to the margin conversation I guess the company has realigned businesses is making changes with facilities making changes with other costs that where the numbers are pretty large but I guess we don't know what the starting point was.
So I'm sort of curious if there is a way to categorize how much more can still change from a cost perspective to boost margins? And then forgetting about this year forgetting about next year just bigger picture longer-term is this low 13% segment operating margin in the realistic scenario analysis of what the long-term Lockheed Martin segment operating margin can be? Let me think about that for a second Noah.
You asked a lot of detail there.
I have got to get my head around it but how much sort of my summation and how much more cost takeout potential is left.
I always believe and Marillyn has engrained this in my thinking and probably the corporation's thinking but we try to get to as much of -- as I have said this in the past there is much of a variable cost mentality as possible.
And so a lot of that is sort of environmentally dependent and not all of our business areas are sort of created equal in that regard.
So one of the more flexible businesses we have for instance is our short cycle IS and GS business where we have a lot of facilities that are leased in nature and not owned not all of them by the way but a lot of them are.
So we've been able to flex pretty dramatically if you just flip back to last few years at IS and GS and look at the unfortunate headcount reductions we've had to take we've been able to maintain margins throughout that period with a pretty sizable reduction in our overall workforce.
So thats for instance one business area that has the ability to flex to match this environment.
Some of our longer cycle businesses as you would expect like Space Systems our Aeronautics they have higher capital cost content and therefore thats harder to remove but one of the things we've been trying to do is take a look at our total square footage and optimizing our square footage around the corporation.
So the moves that we just announced in November were to take out another 2.5 million square feet on top of about 2 million square feet weve done in the past few years.
So well over 4 million in total.
Thats just sort of sizing the operations to the environment in which we operate.
I think were good at that.
I think we are good at that across the corporation.
So you never know what you have to do until you sort of hit with the predicament that the environment throws at you but we work it very hard.
I will also remind you that probably two-thirds of our cost is in the supply base so we try to get that as well under control.
Thats the big part of it as well.
And while we are reducing space in some areas we are actually growing concurrently in other areas.
So for instance our Troy Alabama facility or Camden Arkansas where we are doing some of the THAAD production and some of the missile production missile and fire control is actually growing.
So we've got this constant increasing and decreasing.
I think we've become very good at that over the years.
So I dont think that we've reached a limit as far as what we can or cannot do in the future.
Then as far as the 13% long term given that we've hit that twice and thats the highest I would say thats a hard hurdle for us to maintain and especially in the near term as we talked about in the past with the significant growth coming on the F-35 program at lower than the overall margin rate thats clearly going to put pressure on our ability to achieve that.
The flipside of that argument though is our international content is expected to grow over the near term.
I think we'll hit close to 20% this year and we could do more than that in the next couple of years even.
So that typically would have a mitigating function but overall I'd say it's going to be hard to maintain the 13% thats just a level we've achieved infrequently and it'll be hard to maintain that going forward.
Our next question comes from John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks for taking my question.
Bruce there is a lot of debate among investors on how to really think about these pension tailwinds and what they mean for the stock.
I was hoping to focus in a little bit on the cash part of it.
The cash tailwind from prepayments for CAS harmonization and better understand how the management team thinks about it for capital allocation of future.
I guess at the extreme some would argue that a temporary tailwind should be returned to investors in I guess above normal buybacks or something of that nature.
That might be too simple but it also seems like too simple that a tailwind thats not going to last forever has no impact on how you think about capital allocation going forward.
So I am just curious if you could kind of focus then in on that and maybe help investors understand how they should treat it for the purposes of allies in the stock? Thanks.
Well John I appreciate the question.
I think it's a very well thought out question.
So let me try to address everything you described there.
So in years past and not this year we've tended to whenever give the EPS performance we've given adjusted EPS try to take into account the fact that we thought our GAAP reported earnings were probably understated relative to the valuation of the company.
And that wasnt necessarily good measure for our investors to be basing their valuation of the stock upon.
And so now we've got the flip situation that were our reported earnings are actually getting a tailwind as you said because of the FAS/CAS adjustment.
So what I have been trying to preach for a number of years is that the real valuation upon which the stock should be valued is the cash flow and sort of the cash flow per share to be specific with that.
So at least as we look at even with the substantial conversion from expense to income this year as I said I think $430-ish million or so of income added to our segment operating profit that takes us to the current outlook again of about $10.55 to $10.80.
I think our free cash flow per share this year is somewhere north of $11.30.
And so when I think of cash deployment in particular and I look at the payout ratios from a dividend perspective or in the cash available for share purchases I'm very much focused on our sort of free cash flow per share.
And I think that number grows over the next couple of years potentially pretty significantly as we start to finally recover some of this $9 billion or so that we've had pre-funded into our pension trust that we've yet to recover via our billings to the government.
Now the mortality table that I've just described has some longer term implications that I've described.
Obviously as people live longer that will require additional contributions over the longer term that should get reimbursed on our CAS contracts.
But as I said earlier and I forgot who asked the question in the near term that actually is an upper to cash flow because we don't expect to have near term much of an incremental increase in our required contributions but our CAS to our government customers will reflect that mortality table change earlier.
So this is -- that's the way I think of it.
Very much looking at it from sort of a free cash per share basis and on that basis I think we still got some upside from both the dividend potential as well as share repurchase potential going forward.
Our next question comes from Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Good morning Bruce and Marillyn.
Hi Ron.
Good morning Ron.
Just want to ask maybe a question on -- a broad question on capital allocation.
So when you think about Lockheed's stock at current levels and buying it here.
Do you think there's other places that the corporation can invest for growth? Right arguably buying back the shares helps the earnings per share but it's not really a strategy to fuel growth for the future right.
I mean are there other things to do and really contemplating it.
Can you talk about that? I'm going to give a shot and I think Marillyn -- may actually probably here as well.
But so we're not -- this is not an idle conversation that we have.
We don't automatically drop to the fact that we need to be buying back shares and that's the best use of capital.
We actually do look at growth opportunities for the corporation.
We did two small acquisitions in the first quarter as we described.
We did those because we do believe that there is growth potential in both of those acquisitions.
And so the other thing we try and do is invest internally.
So as you think of some of our independent research and development if you take a look over the last two years we're up some $100 million or so and just the level of IRAD.
So we're trying to do what's right from a -- supporting our shareholders as well as supporting internal growth.
I mentioned we just invested in a terrific facility in Palo Alto in California to create a new lab for our -- one of our organization out of Space Systems that's sort of forward-looking piece of that business.
So I think we're making those right decisions but honestly as we look at the environment right now there's not enough of those to justify the ample cash that we are throwing off right now as a very mature business and in an environment that we're in from an overall budget perspective.
And probably the last thing you would want us to do is to go chasing growth and overpaying for growth.
So given those prospects I think what we're doing is is what most investors would hope us -- for us to do and we're doing that in a very thoughtful and hopefully prudent manner.
I'd just add to that as well Ron that if you look at the things that we are investing and as Bruce said we were up on our R&amp;D expenditures last year.
Over the past five years we've invested more than $3 billion in the research and development things like advanced materials advanced manufacturing we're doing things in autonomy and robotics so the acquisitions remain in the unmanned space quantum computing cyber energy.
There is a lot of areas that we're continuing to invest in.
And importantly we're also continuing to invest in our current portfolio to keep it relevant.
So making sure we're listening to our customers extending the range for example on the PAC-3 and THAAD and JASSM and some of the key capability LRASM are opportunities that we look at it offering different variants of the LCS to the international marketplace.
We are definitely continuing to maintain that portfolio and look for opportunities advanced concepts and things that we can do to stay ahead of what our customers' needs are.
You saw probably the SR-72 that we rolled out which was a capability we've been working on for a number of years and we've got a ways to go yet and demonstrate it.
But having an intelligent surveillance reconnaissance capability with the potential for strike platform which is very interesting.
That's just one example but one that I think makes the point if we're going to continue to do what we do as a corporation to be focused on being a technology leader because that is the value that we create for our customers.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
Almost afternoon.
Good morning.
Hi Carter.
Bruce just one clarification and then a question if I will on the longevity table as you stated.
The dynamic for 2016 and '17 if you look out beyond '15 presumably it's the same sort of impact in terms of FAS being revised up more than CAS on a relative basis in those years similar to what you're seeing in '15.
Is that correct? Yeah it is Carter but I'll make the -- hopefully the same point that I tried to make on the 2015.
Even after that adjustment we would still expect to see increasing pension income even after the longevity table is implemented from '15 to '16 to '17.
You're still expecting a pretty sizable step out to the contribution out there and I guess its '16 or '17.
So we've got a fairly large contribution required in '17 that we've also got a fairly large CAS recovery as we kind of get to the end of the CAS harmonization timeline there.
So I would expect -- I'll say net-net cash from our pension to actually increase over those same years that you just described.
Okay.
And then with respect to the DoD or the domestic versus the non-DoD or international growth.
And with respect to the 4% decline this quarter how would that have looked on a domestic versus international basis? And if you could do the same for bookings that would be helpful as well? Yeah so I think -- and I'm doing this with little at top of my head Carter but at the discussion we had with the media earlier today I made the point that if you just take a look at our DoD sales on a standalone basis they dropped 4% from the year 2012 to the year 2013.
And then we expect pure DoD sales to drop another 6% from the end of 2013 to the end of 2014.
So a 10% drop year-over-year from '12 to '14.
What's lost in some of that discussion though was we actually expected 2014 before sequestration to actually have an increase in sales amount.
So arguably from a planned perspective we're actually down more than the 6% that I talked about just now because that's sort of going actuals to the end of the year expected actuals and not recognizing what it otherwise could have been without sequestration.
Hopefully that made some sense to you.
In the quarter itself so in the non-DoD or the international content specifically we're looking at something like a 13% increase year-over-year in our total international sales and that's -- and as a guess from a total perspective we're going from roughly 17% to right at or just a little bit below 20%.
So but for the international growth we would have seen a much larger impact because the DoD is again decreasing about 4% cliff.
So the reason we're sort of down only the 1% or so that we're guiding towards is because of the mitigating effects of the international sales.
Stephanie this is Jerry I think we're coming up on the hour so maybe we'll just turn this over to Marillyn for closing comments.
Thanks Jerry.
As we conclude today I want to restate that the Corporation had another outstanding quarter and is well positioned to deliver even higher value to stockholders and customers as we progress through 2014.
Our robust cash generation strong backlog of domestic and international work a solid balance sheet and the exceptional execution of our employees will continue to propel our corporation forward in 2014 and beyond.
I'm confident in our future and because of the outstanding innovation performance and integrity of our workforce.
We will continue to support our customers in their essential missions.
Thanks again for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to speaking with you on our next earnings call in July.
Stephanie that concludes our call today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect any everyone have a great day.
Good day and welcome everyone to the Lockheed Martin Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Shannon and good morning.
I'd like to welcome everyone to our second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Marillyn Hewson our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Statements made in today's call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities Law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see today's press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our Web site today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our Web site at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Marillyn.
Thanks Jerry.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
We're pleased to have the opportunity to review our second quarter results with you.
As today's release detailed we had a strong quarter operationally and financially.
All reported results exceeded our expectations and we're progressing on achievement of our full year financial objectives.
These results reflect the execution being achieved across our businesses as the corporation operated at a very strong level in providing critical solutions to our customers while returning value to our stockholders.
Our team continued to deliver broad-based results across the corporation and I thank them for all that they do on a daily basis.
Our strong year-to-date financial performance also enabled us to again increase full year 2014 guidance for segment and consolidated operating profit earnings per share and cash from operations.
Bruce will cover the financial results in detail later.
First I want to congratulate our Mission Systems and Training team on their successful capture of three key new business awards this past quarter as well as recognize our Space Systems group for their capture of a multibillion extension on an essential National Security program.
One of the highlights of the quarter was Mission Systems and Training's competitive win of the Space Fence program.
This contract will enable our corporation to provide a critical capability to our nation for tracking more than 200 000 orbiting space objects and increase the ability to prevent collisions with space-based debris.
MST was also notified of two significant helicopter new business events this quarter.
With announcements from the U.S.
Air Force on the Combat Search-and-Rescue Helicopter program award and from the Naval Air Systems Command with the award of the VXX Presidential Helicopter Replacement program.
These awards will utilize our systems engineering expertise as we provide significant capabilities on these important helicopter recapitalization programs.
Our role will be just to support Sikorsky who is the prime contractor on both these programs.
Turning to Space Systems our team was able to expand a key franchise program with a receipt of additional production lots for spacecraft 5 and 6 on the Space-Based Infrared System SBIRS.
SBIRS spacecraft provide essential missile defense and warning capability to our nation and allies to counter the growing proliferation of offensive ballistic missiles around the world.
These two awards expand our backlog at work and help position our corporation for long-term growth in core markets.
In addition to the notable new business awards we also announced two strategic acquisitions in closely aligned core business areas.
To expand our portfolio satellite launch preparation services we acquired Astrotech Space Operations.
Their addition compliments our existing capabilities in satellite design production and integration.
processing safeguarding and dissemination of critical information for intelligence and defense communities.
Closing of both of these acquisitions is expected to occur in the third quarter and they will be managed by our Space System business area.
I'd like to move to F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and provide a summary status of the program.
New business support of the program continues to grow with announcements in this quarter from two of our cooperative partner countries to procure the F-35 for their future fighter needs.
Australia announced their decision to purchase 58 additional F-35 aircraft bringing their total current procurement level to 72 aircraft.
Additionally Turkey finalized their commitment to procure their initial buy of F-35 fighters reflecting their confidence in the program to provide fifth generation fighter capability to their nation.
It's exciting to see expanding levels of international and domestic procurement of the aircraft as we work to deliver these revolutionary assets to our nation and allies.
But we had numerous accomplishments on the development program this past quarter we were obviously disappointed with the necessary grounding of the aircraft fleet in response to an engine fire and damage to an Air Force jet at Eglin Air Force Base on June 23rd.
Subsequent engineering and safety analysis including an inspection of the entire F-35 aircraft fleet have been completed.
Flight operations were allowed to resume last week but there were some limitations until final root cause of the engine failure and identification of any corrective actions is completed.
I'd like to turn to some of the accomplishment achieved this quarter on the development program.
That included achieving over 17 000 cumulative flight hours on program demonstrating air-to-air combat capability and completing the first flight test with Version 3I software.
Another significant accomplishment was the successful landing of a carrier variant aircraft at the maximum test speed and drop rate.
This success further paved us the way to conducting carrier landings at sea later this year.
In the software arena we're conducting final checkout in testing of the Version 2B software and are confident of being ready for initial operating capability of this turbo aircraft in 2015 for the U.S.
Marine Corps.
We're also progressing well on Version 3I software that will achieve the planned IOC for the Air Force variant aircraft in 2016.
Before leaving the F-35 I'd like to briefly outline our recently announced Blueprint for Affordability agreement with the Department of Defense on the Joint Strike Fighter program.
This agreement is designed to reduce the price of a new F-35 to under $80 million and then-year dollars by 2019 at a level at or below the price of the fourth generation fighters.
Achievement of cost reductions will enable domestic and international customers to buy a fifth generation fighter with its far more advanced technology and capabilities as they capitalize their fighter fleets.
The need to replace fourth generation fighters is becoming even more acute due to the aging of the current fleet and increased strategic thrust to the aircraft.
The agreement calls for our corporation and key subcontractors Northrop Grumman and BAE Systems to make total combined investments of up to $170 million in affordability initiatives from 2014 to 2016.
Recoupment of our investments with an accessible return is included in the agreement after achievement of reduced cost of F-35 aircraft in future years.
Our focus on cost reductions and affordability will be aided by this agreement as we strive to produce the F-35 for our customers at the lowest possible price.
Beyond the F-35 I was in the United Kingdom last week at the Royal International Air Tattoo at Fairford and also the Farnborough International Air Show where I had the opportunity to meet with many current and potential customers.
My impression from those meetings is that the demand for our portfolio of products is strong and growing.
We see broad-based customer interest in areas ranging from fighter and cargo aircraft to missile defense systems tactical missiles C4ISR and IT solutions.
Customers are very interested in our evolving technologies focus areas where we're working to extend and expand the value and capabilities of our core programs.
One item that I'd highlight is the demonstration of our focus on providing innovative and different capabilities to an existing program.
We're seeing on our LM-100J commercial airlifter program.
The LM-100J is the civil version of our proven and cost-effective C-130J Super Hercules aircraft and build upon the legacy of the airlifter for its new commercial customers.
We were particularly pleased to announce that we secured a letter of intent for our new LM-100J commercial airlifter.
This customer has the opportunity to purchase up to 10 aircrafts and we believe the potential demand for this airlifter will only grow in the future.
The final topic I'd like to speak briefly about is the decision we made this past quarter outlining revisions in our defined-benefit pension plan for salaried employees.
We took actions to freeze certain of our qualified and non-qualified defined-benefit pension plans in a two-phased approach and transition the effected employees to an enhanced defined contribution retirement savings plan.
Taking these actions will allow us to better manage our financial obligations at a more predictable weight while still providing valuable retirement savings to employees.
Our goal is to offer competitive benefits that align with our global security and aerospace peers while also attracting and retaining the talent that is so vital to our success.
These changes will provide current and future employees with an employee retirement savings plan that is very competitive in the marketplace while positioning our pension expenses on a more affordable and sustainable level for the corporation.
I'll now ask Bruce to go through the details of second quarter financial performance and our increased 2014 guidance.
And then we'll open up the line for your questions.
Bruce? Thanks Marillyn and good morning everyone.
As I highlight our key financial accomplishments please follow along with web charts that we included with our earnings release today.
Let's start with Chart three an overview of the quarter.
Sales in the quarter were $11.3 billion down slightly from last year but actually a little ahead of our expectations.
Segment operating profit was strong at $1.4 billion and this performance along with the improvement in our FAS/CAS pension adjustment increased net earnings by 3% and increased earnings per share to $2.76.
We had a stronger cash quarter than expected generating $977 million in cash from operations.
And we increased our full year outlook for operating profit EPS and cash from operations.
So I think we had a strong quarter and first half of the year.
Turning to chart four and then comparing our sales and segment operating profit results for the second quarter this year versus last year sales were down slightly compared with last year but as I just noted this was ahead of our expectations.
Segment operating profit was about $100 million lower than the same period last year.
The last year we had the benefits of contractual resolutions that were not repeated this year.
Adjusting for these favorable items our segment operating performance was comparable to last and again was broad based across our business areas.
Chart five shows that earnings per share increased by $0.12 or 5% over last year.
EPS grew despite the lower segment operating profit due to the change in the FAS/CAS pension adjustment from an expense last year to income this year.
On chart six we will compare our cash from operations for the second quarter of last year.
Cash generated was just under $1 billion in the quarter or 57% higher than the second quarter last year.
The strong performance in the second quarter led to an increase in our outlook for the year as we will discuss on the next chart.
Chart seven provided our current outlook compared with what we've provided in the first quarter.
We are maintaining our orders outlook at between $41.50 billion and $43 billion but we are actually ahead of our planned order level through the first six months.
We have the large C-130 multiyear order planned for late in the fourth quarter.
And with the size of that order we believe it's prudent to leave the order outlook unchanged.
Similarly for sales we are tracking nicely to our current guidance.
We are increasing outlook for segment operating profit by $125 million reflecting the strong performance to the first half of the year.
With the changes we announced this quarter to freeze our pension plan we were required to re-measure our pension plan assets and benefit obligations.
In addition to the freeze the re-measurement incorporated a new longevity estimate along with a lower discount rate and the net effect of these changes was $100 million increase in our FAS/CAS pension income for the next six months.
We increased our operating profit outlook by $225 million to recognize both the segment operating profit and FAS/CAS pension income increases.
We also increased our earnings per share guidance by $0.35 and we will discuss this in more detail in a couple of charts.
Finally we increased cash from operations by $100 million to greater than or equal to $4.8 billion.
On chart eight we have our sales outlook for the year by business area which remains unchanged.
Chart nine shows our updated guidance for segment operating profit.
We increased outlook for operating profit by $105 million for space system and by $20 million for aeronautics.
For Space Systems this reflects strong performance to-date along with growing confidence that two large delivery events planned for the second half of the year will both happen this year.
The increase in profit for aeronautics recognizes the performance to the first half of the year being ahead of our expectations.
Moving on to chart 10 we will discuss the increase on our earnings per share guidance.
The $125 million increase in segment operating profit raised our outlook by $0.25 per share while the $100 million increase in FAS/CAS pension income raised the outlook by another $.20 per share.
In addition we reevaluated certain tax reserve positions resulting in an increase in tax expense in the second quarter.
Netting all of these changes our new earnings per share guidance increased a total of $0.35 for the year to a new range of between $10.85 and $11.15 per share.
On chart 11 we thought it will be helpful to describe how the pension changes we made will affect our expectations for FAS/CAS income and pension funding and recovery over the next few years.
As with all these projections it's important to remember that they are all based on current regulations and include our June 2014 assumptions for discount rate at 4.25% which is 50 basis points lower than what we used at the end of last year.
The projections also incorporate new longevity assumptions our long-term asset return of 8% and demographics holding constant or as I'd like to say current course and speed.
We expect lower FAS expense in the future and that would make our FAS/CAS income in 2015 about twice the 2014 level and increasing the 2016 level about a half a billion dollars above the 2015 level.
For pension funding and recovery we'd expect our contributions to the pension trust over the next few years to be similar to are lower than the 2014 level and the future benefits associated with the roughly $10 billion we have funded but not yet recovered would remain in tact.
Recoveries in 2015 and 2016 are expected to be sequentially higher than 2014 and essentially keeping pace with the increases in FAS/CAS income over the next two years.
Finally chart 12 provides our summary for the quarter.
We are pleased with the performance with the first half of the year as it results from continued strong program execution along with taking proactive measures and the benefits of a portfolio of programs that is second to none.
We expect to resume discretionary share repurchases in the third quarter and this leaves us well positioned to achieve the higher outlooks that we provided today.
With that we are ready for your questions.
Shannon? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Sam Pearlstein at Wells Fargo.
You may begin.
Good morning.
Good morning Sam.
Good morning.
I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the investments you're making in terms of the F-35 to reduce the cost.
I guess I'm wondering does it impact your booking margin on the program and how much is it shared amongst your partners because it would seem like near-term it should have a downward effect even if you can then recover it on the backend? So I'm just trying to understand how the mechanics of that work.
Bruce why don't you take that? Yeah.
Sam I'll jump in there.
So we're calling this the Blueprint for Affordability.
As Marillyn said the overall objective is to put our money where our mouth is quite frankly because we think there are investments that could be made that will reduce the cost of the aircrafts over the next few years below what it could otherwise track to.
So the thought is as Marillyn said about $170 million up to $170 million spread over a couple of years.
You could think of that Sam as sort of proportional in terms of the investment contributions to the work share of our partners.
So Lockheed Martin Northrop Grumman and BAE would be expected -- although it's not required because not all the investments frankly will fall along that line but for planning purposes you should expect just kind of proportional to the work share that we each have there.
The recovery of that is tied to achieving those cost reductions.
And as Marillyn said we would expect to recover that investment plus an appropriate return on that investment.
So Sam to your question on booking rate impact I don't expect this to have any negative impact on the booking rates for those lots affected unless we are unable to achieve the cost reductions that we are projecting in the basis for those investments.
So if we do what we say we can do then you would see no impact on booking rates as a result of that.
I just want to add to it.
This really is an exciting acquisition reform type of an initiative.
We think it's groundbreaking in terms of bringing this F-35 program.
We've been working closely with the Department of Defense for the past year to come up with this agreement and it lines right up with Frank Kendall's blueprint.
He has a better eye power of 2.0.
And where they have asked us to come up with innovative ways to drive down cost has boosted just volume will bring the cost down.
We expect that probably 75% to 80% of the cost reduction comes through just ramping up production.
So the numbers that I started around bringing the cost of the aircraft down will depend first and foremost on that volume reduction but at the same time we will remake these investments and cost reduction initiatives.
That will be the balance of it to bring it down to a fourth generation priced aircraft by 2019 in then-year dollars.
So we're very excited about -- and we've already got projects underway.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Rob Spingarn of Credit Suisse.
You may begin.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Bruce could you walk through some of the puts and takes in the pension numbers headwinds and tailwinds obviously the discount rate we have that from the K but the mortality and then the upside from the freeze? Yeah.
So you're talking about sort of FAS/CAS income change for the next six months? Yeah.
All the details you have netted the number to a positive 100 billion.
Yeah.
Let me give you the pieces and I should point out Rob what I'm going to talk to you today is also going to be in the Q that you will see the 10-Q that you will see filed tomorrow.
So we started off with an expectation of FAS/CAS pension income of about $345 million for the year.
You should think of the design change that we are incorporating so that comes in sort of two stages.
We have freezing of the salary benefits effective 01-01-2016 and then we have the services benefit will freeze at 01-01 of 2020.
That will be essentially a full freeze of the pension plan at that point in time.
The results of those amendment changes if you will is an improvement of about $435 million compared to what we otherwise would have had without that.
We actually had a positive through the first six months of the year that we recognized when we were required to re-measure assets and benefit obligations.
We did better -- our long-term assumption for the rate of return on assets is 8%.
So if we just break that into two six months chinks you would have said the first six months should have been about 4% return we actually did better than that.
And that better return resulted in $85 million net improvement.
The increased longevity impact for the year is about $265 million negative impact to the income that would otherwise have occurred this year.
And then the discount rate reduction again about 50 bips as I said earlier is about $155 million.
So hopefully if my math is right that locks us from the $345 million to the $445 million pension income and that's the net $100 million benefit there.
Does that work with that? I'll say yes.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Cai von Rumohr of Cowen and Company.
You may begin.
Yes.
Thank you.
I think you've just answered my question.
Thanks.
Thanks Cai.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
You may begin.
Thank you very much.
Marillyn your focus on affordability is notable I think because of the Pentagon I guess and the navy called out two of your business units forgetting Top Chairman Awards.
How important is that and what does that say about how are you going to push the rest of the business units to capture those achievements? Howard thank you for your question and thanks for the recognition for the folks that are doing the right thing that the navy and others have focused on our performance.
So we are excited about that.
Frankly affordability is a daily focus for us across the entire corporation.
Every one of our business areas is tracking to drive cost out of the business and look at how they can bring innovation forward into to some of their products in order to make them more affordable for the customer.
So it isn't just those that happened to get the recognition from our customers which we highly value and appreciate.
But it is across the business that we are doing this.
I know if you look back at what we've done in terms of reducing our footprint with our square footage reductions shutting down some of our facilities things that we are doing across our overhead structure and our expenditures.
And at the same time how we are looking at making sure that we are performing on a daily basis so that if you look at our operational execution this quarter and for the past several quarters I've never seen our programs performing better by putting off quality products on time under budget and meeting the commitments of our customers.
The recognition that you highlighted was from the navy and not all other business areas work with the navy.
So we would seek similar recognition from other services whereas warranted because we are across the board working on affordability.
Thanks for the question.
Thank you.
Our next question is from George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
You may begin.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hi George.
Bruce I wondered if there is still a little bit more in aeronautics.
I mean you basically have a lot of puts and takes there like you get 40 million more F-22 sales and pick up 35 million profits.
The R&amp;D programs explained by -- you took the charge last year; F-35 sales were up 210 million but no change in the profit.
So is that an issue of where you are in the LRIP program.
So kind of you just explained some of those comments.
Yes.
So maybe I'll just hit all the moving pieces in aeronautics George.
And hopefully I'll capture the intent of your question there.
So collectively I think let's see we were up about 135 sales in aeronautics almost $450 million about in line with what our expectations were.
We said all along that we expect to have aeronautics be really the only business area that has any significant growth to speak of.
That of course was led by the F-35 program.
You mentioned about $210 million of that came from the production program.
The total F-35 program was just under $300 million with the difference coming on SDD contract.
Most of that increase on the SDD coming because we don't have the negative profit adjustment that was taken in the same quarter of last year.
C-130s were up about $75 million or so really it was just one additional aircraft this year versus last.
C-5 a similar story one additional aircraft and a partial -- was up about $45 million.
That is attributable to one additional aircraft that was partially offset because of a little bit of lower support in spares this year compared to last.
As you said the F-22 is about $40 million almost all of that F-22 sales volume resulted from the higher risk retirements on a number of programs within the F-35 program that we are about $35 million of that 40 in total.
You talked about the I think your question was the F-35 production program up about $210 million while the profit level was flat and what that really results from George is just as you speculated we did have a number of higher risk retirements in the second quarter of last year that were not repeated this year.
I think that's just a facing of when those events occurred.
It's not something that's causing a long-term concern on my part.
And I think we are performing actually very well and the production programs we are at large as we sit here today.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jason Gursky of Citi.
You may begin.
Hi good morning.
I just wanted to ask a question on missile defense and MEADS versus Patriot.
Can you just describe a little bit on where we are today with MEADS from a revenue perspective? And if we don't get any additional fuel sign there when does that revenue stream trail off? And then maybe just talk a little bit about the competitive environment the MEADS versus Patriot and how much you care either way which direction this all goes? Well you take the revenue question and I'll talk about the competitive environment.
Good.
I get the same thoughts on there Marillyn.
So I was trying to write those down as you were talking Jason.
So revenue stream and what's the current  Yeah  Yeah current revenue level; you should think of it as fairly minimal right now.
And that primarily because the development program that has been undergoing for the better part is I don't know five six seven years or so that is now sort of wound down to the end.
The actual sales or revenue that is being generated by the program is not all that consequential.
When that would falloff is sort of when the development program finishes which is -- it's not close to the end of this year maybe a little bit into early next year.
But that's sort of the profile you should think in terms of the revenue profile that we are looking at.
What we are always trying to do is now convert this from this program that is sort of finished at the end of this development into a production contract.
That's what we are trying to do.
That's what we are trying to do in Poland.
I think the next opportunity is probably going to come up in Germany.
I'll let Marillyn maybe discuss the more strategic views of Meads versus Patriot.
Sure.
Thanks Bruce.
We are continuing MEADS frankly I will just say right upfront we are disappointed the Polish government announced that they are down selected to two offerings and MEADS didn't make that down select.
Because we really believe that offers the best capability is the most modern mobile unit that's 360 degree capability open architecture.
It has got all of the things that we think was a very good offering for the Polish government.
At the same time as you know iterating Germany have invested a significant amount of their funds into the program collectively reviewed as government.
The next opportunity for us is to continue to work with Germany and Italy on developing their future here in missile defense system.
Germany will be making the decision later in this year.
We feel very good about how MEADS will stack up in that competition.
As I said they have made a significant investment they understand the capabilities.
So we expect that to be strong.
The program itself as Bruce said we are going to continue through the development phase on it and we also expect that the U.S.
army will continue to review it and figure out how they can harvest some of the technology from MEADS.
Also just to highlight for you we still benefit as well from the Patriot system because there as you saw the recent opportunity with Cutter being announced and others we are on the Patriot system with our missile with the PAC-3.
So both systems will have an opportunity for that we are front and center in the marketplace with MEADS and expect that Germany and Italy will look seriously in there are other countries as well.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Harned of Sanford Bernstein.
You may begin.
Yes good morning.
Hi Doug.
Good morning.
Staying on this area missiles and fire control all of these were lighter than normal during the quarter.
I wonder if you could give us a sense of how you're looking at the outlook for that group in terms of order flow.
Obviously PAC-3 those are important parts of that so maybe you could give us a sense of where the international opportunities are and how do you see that unit moving over time? Yes I will take that one on Doug.
So I think the biggest near-term international order for missile and fire control is probably the PAC-3 for Cutter.
Marillyn mentioned that as well just a second ago.
That's probably one that we are looking for.
Hopefully I think we had a signing ceremony in the Pentagon here in the last couple of weeks that will lead to a contract award to us hopefully some time in the third quarter.
One that may not be on your scope Doug that's a big sized order for us and it's one that's worth discussing is potentially about a 1 billion order for the scout fighting vehicle in the U.K.
this is basically putting a new churn and new capabilities on an existing fighting vehicle combat fighting vehicle in the U.K.
and that's being operated -- are performed by our LMUK operation.
So that's a fairly sizable opportunity that we are very excited about.
We think that actually has some export potential even beyond the U.K.
for that vehicle.
Those are two the bigger ones that we are looking at in terms of international orders.
But I'll just say looking at the rest of the year expectation for missile and fire controls we are trying to get back to about the similar level of backlog is where we ended the year at 2013.
And of course we always have the fourth quarter of our calendar year being the first quarter of the new fiscal year and we tend to get a lot of our domestic orders in that quarter and I would expect that will happen again this year.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Yair Reiner of Oppenheimer.
You may begin.
Okay thank you.
For Space Systems you mentioned that the EBIT upside relative to prior guidance is going to come from two deliveries now happening at the back half.
Why didn't that impact the sales guidance as well? It's a good question Yair.
And let me just say there is probably -- I'll say maybe like three moving pieces that are going out in the space guidance and I'll address the sales as well here.
So first and foremost we've had better performance year-to-date.
Some of that has come on the back on the United Launch Alliance.
That sort of hired to-date performance is going to carryout for the rest of the year.
So that's part of the increase there.
Secondly recall probably both the fourth quarter call of last and the first quarter call this year.
I talked about some continuing restructuring charges particularly as we are shutting down some facilities and relocating operations from those facilities elsewhere within the space system's portfolio.
So those charges have actually turned out to be a little lighter than we expected that they would be when we set the guidance for this year.
Importantly to note they are still back half loaded in the year but the total year is expected to be lower than what we initially envisioned in the -- when we gave the guidance for 2014.
Then specifically to your point on the two launch vehicles we probably had a little more contingency or conservatism in our profit guidance associated with those items only because our profit guidance range is pretty narrow frankly for Space Systems Company.
I think it was at $30 million or so from the low end to the high end.
These are items that are probably event sized at least collectively.
Whereas the sales are probably contained within the $300 million range that we give already for the sales guidance.
So while I recognize why that could seem like a disconnect I think it's because of the size of the ranges per sales versus the size of ranges for earnings.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
You may begin.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Bruce I wanted to get a capital deployment update from you.
On M&amp;A you guys have been kind of doing smaller things in areas of growth.
Others in the space have suggested M&amp;A could pick up.
I wonder if you think that's possible.
What's the probability that that annual number for LOCKHEED moves into the billions rather than hundreds of millions.
Then on the share repurchase any color you could give on the anticipated pace at which that picks back up since you mentioned that's going to happen? Yes.
I'll jump in a little bit on the M&amp;A question.
I'll see that if Marillyn has any maybe overarching thoughts than I provide.
I think the short answer that your question if I could repeat it was sort of you have done some smaller acquisitions and what's the potential that we could end up with maybe more than $1 billion in a year instead of spend a several hundred millions of dollars in a year.
I think the short answer to that is that it's opportunistic.
It's what we see with -- we've always at least since I've been in this job we look heck of a lot more opportunities for M&amp;A than we ever execute on.
That's because we don't think all that makes sense obviously.
So if we find more deals that makes sense for us both strategically financially and operationally then we'll close that.
There is not a certain number if you go that we are trying to stay below or trying to exceed and getting that number.
I think historically -- if you take a look at our capital deployment and our share repurchase plan we ended the year last year at about $2.6 billion of cash on the balance sheet.
We've grown that.
I think we are at about $3.4 billion or so today.
I think I said on the last call that we would probably try to get to a share repurchase that will bring us about in line with where we ended last year with cash on the balance sheet and you can probably solve for that number better than I can frankly.
But that's probably my best indication of what the remaining expectation at least on our part is for share repurchases to the rest of the year.
I'll ask and see if Marillyn has any different thoughts on the M&amp;A question.
Not different Bruce.
I think you covered it well.
I mean we will continue to look at selective acquisitions that really makes sense for us.
We were looking at things that give us new access to end markets or some unique technology or capability or things that did with our core or that are very near to our core just as the ones that we've done in the past quarter line up very well with our core business.
We recently -- in the previous quarter we bought industrial defender which is a leading provider for cyber security solutions.
So you can look at the things that we're buying and if they create value and they're strategically and operationally lineup with what we want to do then we're going to continue to look for those opportunities.
As you can tell from what Bruce has described I mean we have a lot of capability on our balance sheet to do what we think makes sense.
We're just going to go along our normal process of assessing and determining if it's a good bid for us.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Rob Stallard of RBC Capital Markets.
You may begin.
Hi thanks very much.
Good morning.
Hi Rob.
Good morning.
First just a couple of quick guidance questions; what do you expect the full year tax rate to be? And also what are the factors that you see weighing on the aeronautic margin in the second half? Thank you.
Yes.
Thanks Rob.
So I think it will be somewhere in the -- I think of it probably in the 32% range maybe a little bit lower than that as we sit here today.
So one wildcard obviously is whether or not we have the R&amp;D tax credit between now and the end of the year and/or I believe will ultimately get R&amp;D tax credit at some point in the future whether it happens this year but we had the retroactive event like happened last year.
I hate to predict that.
But that's not included in the tax numbers that I just gave to you Rob.
And the second question was on the aeronautic sort of the second half of the year.
So as we sit here today we've actually had very good performance in the first six months for aeronautics as I said probably repeatedly in the opening remarks better than our expectations.
As we look today at the guidance that we're providing that would suggest that we're going to have lower margins in the second half of the year than the first half of the year.
Not hugely lower but that's the result of our lower planned risk retirements as we sit here today and I think of how we're planning for those risk retirements in the future.
The first half had the benefit of some of those exceeding our expectations and I think there is some potential upside that we could exceed our expectations of what we have planned for those second half risk retirements today.
The other piece that has a negative push on margins in the second half is obviously the rising volume of the F-35 program at the lower margins on the overall aeronautics margin.
That will continue to happen in the second half of the year as well.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
You may begin.
Thanks good morning.
First just a clarification where you gave us ton of moving parts in the pension but can you give us what the FAS and the CAS components were but the actual question is more on space where this is the fourth year in a row where you put up or you're going to put up 13% maybe better margins it looks like there are even some conservatism up in the second half.
Is this 13% margin business on a go-forward basis? Myles it surprised me a little bit.
So space has the benefit obviously -- I'm going to answer your second question first I guess and I'll come back to the FAS/CAS.
So space has the benefit of getting quite a significant portion of equity earnings associated with our 50-50 joint venture in United Launch Alliance.
So the actual margins on the rest of space is business because we're recognizing the profit but not recognizing the sales has a boost in the profit that's not inherent in the rest of the portfolio.
We also have a joint venture in the U.K.
where we're also accounting for it with equity earnings with the atomic weapons establishment although it's a much lower piece of it.
You think of the two of those as adding a pretty good boost the margins of space.
And those have increased over the past few years over what they were say three four five years ago.
We also had the transition in space of having a number of programs in concurrent development.
And almost every single one of those programs is now in full rate production as much as I can say full rate production for space which is usually small quantities of spacecraft.
So programs like SBIRS Advanced EHF even to a certain extent the GPS III were on the tail end or hopefully completed with the development of a lot of those satellites and we're now in production.
And you'd expect to see higher margins during that performance.
Also I'll just say the performance on other special programs activities within space has been outstanding both from a capabilities perspective as well as the financial performance there.
So whether or not we can continue that Myles I think we've got a little bit of actually negative as I talked about earlier in terms of the restructuring costs that eventually will go away.
You should also think though that we have about $40 million a year I think associated with the formation of ULA that is a recurring benefit that I think expires in 2016 or 2017 I've lost track with.
So that's associated with the game we had on the contribution to form United Launch Alliance I guess spread over 10 years.
So will those offset the restructuring charges going away in the end of that recurring benefit at the end of the 10 years that's the challenge for us and to see whether or not we can maintain that streak? So I think you asked specifically what are the FAS/CAS numbers so I gave you the net at $445 million.
But CAS does not change.
So six and the FAS expense and I'm rounding some numbers here I think FAS expense changes to about $1150 million for the year and I think that probably nets the 450 but that's kind of the close to the pin math.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Joe Nadol of JP Morgan.
You may begin.
Good morning.
Why don't you drill a little bit into the Mission Systems and Training segment? First of all just if you could give a little color on the reserves you recorded on the programs in the quarter.
And then just secondly maybe higher level I think this was the first quarter where you had a negative profit adjustment since you started giving all that level of detail over the last three years.
And I know you had a tough compare with the settlement of presidential helicopter from last year but higher level -- what's the momentum in terms of performance in this segment that it's been so good over the last couple of years? Thanks.
Yeah.
So I'll try just the moving pieces there Joe.
Thanks for the question.
So most of the reserve -- I guess all the reserve that we took in the quarter is really associated with the training and logistic solutions part of the business.
This is a part of business that really serves the variety of customers including the U.S.
government international customers as well as commercial customers.
And you should think of this business at least in large part you have to have products developed and ready for the market in order to be able to be competitive in this marketplace which means to me that you have to sometimes make best in terms of sort of the configurations the capabilities and the quantities of these new products.
We probably didn't make all the right bets here and so we established some reserves in the case that some of the risk associated with some of the inventory that's on the balance sheet today simply doesn't find a home in the long-term.
You talk about this being the first quarter of sort of the negative hit there and you're right.
What I'm pleased with is is essentially even with that reserve that we established for the training logistic solutions business there were offsetting step ups or risk retirements that mitigated essentially to the full extent that reserve that was established such that the net change for the quarter-over-quarter was really just the change in the contractual resolutions that happened last year that didn't happened this year.
So that's the way I think of it.
Well the big reserve that was established we also have big risk retirements that were planned in the quarter that helped to mitigate that.
I'll say that the second half step ups that are planned at least from a risk retirement perspective in the second half of the year are probably going to be comparable to what we saw on the second half of 2013 and always say that's sort of the current planning the current thinking as we sit here today.
So that's your question.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Godyn of Morgan Stanley.
You may begin.
Hey thank you for taking my question.
Bruce just two clarifications a little bit separate; first on international revenue as a percentage it looks like you're going to hit your 20% target this year.
I'm curious if there is another target that we should be thinking about years in the future and then separately on pensions.
You presented some very good detail on FAS/CAS and prepayments.
One of the areas of pushback that I sometimes hear is that you do have a lot of contributions coming that will eat into what the cash windfall might look like.
I was hoping that you could perhaps offer some detail on that point.
Thanks.
Thank you.
So first question John on the international revenue and where we're going I think when I look around I think we did right at or just under 20% in the quarter.
So you're right.
We're hitting our number.
The goal is clearly to be higher.
One thing frame of reference-wise is if we do what we believe we'll do from an order perspective this year and we end up at the backlog level that we're hoping for probably 30% of that backlog could be international business.
So but I'd like the thing that if we haven't has the 20% we're real close and I'd think that there - just by virtue of the backlog that we expect to have we should have a higher number than that in the years to come.
Probably the best time for us to describe that is in October when we give you trend information for next year.
And frankly we're kind of smacked in the middle of our planning process right now.
So I probably hesitate to pick the number directly until we've had a chance to take a look at that planning information and get back to you in the October timeframe.
I think your second question was on the contributions coming is that ahead.
So I'll try to give you some visibility into that as far as the future contributions that we have planned in '15 and '16 at least where I said they'd either be equal to or lower than the 2014 level.
That's probably about as much insight as I want to give right now.
I think the important part is the net cash at least as I like to think about that.
And net cash is going to be increasing pretty substantially.
I may have spoken a little bit of code when I gave you that information but hopefully you follow the information that we were providing there.
And that is expecting to continue and the flipside that I like to always remind people is -- and I've talked about this in the earlier March.
We have this $10 billion or so of advanced funding but it's yet to be recovered just a year ago or so that was $9 billion.
Those assets are sitting in our pension trust today and they're accruing interests at the same rate as our asset return is making.
And so one different way to think about possibly is we're doing a whole lot better with those assets invested in our pension trust and if they were doing nothing but sitting on the balance sheet.
And so I don't think it's a bad use of that cash.
And as long as we can continue to satisfy the constituents in terms of dividends repurchases to our shareholders doing the investments we need to make with our customers I think that's a good use of our overall cash deployment as we sit here today.
I'd just like to add to Bruce's comments on the international side well we're not going to give you a specific number today.
I mean aspirationally we're going to continue to grow in our international area.
We're very much focused on that expansion of our business.
It is where the growth opportunities are for us.
We think we're extraordinarily well positioned with our portfolio for growth.
F-35 certainly is one area because we see in the next five years almost 50% of the orders are going to come from the international arena but in addition to that as we talked about missile defense there was outstanding demand for that around the world.
We see a lot of opportunities and a full range of our capabilities.
And we're going to continue to grow.
We even realigned our organization such that we have more leadership and focus and resources from an enterprise standpoint so that we can win in that marketplace and I think that's a good thought Bruce that we come back in the fall and given that a new target but believe me it will be about 20%.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
You may begin.
Hi good morning almost good afternoon.
Just -- I wondered if you could expand a little bit on this pension piece the delta in the FAS number would most likely relate to the actuarial amortization not service and interest cost I'd assume since those aren't changing and the benefits until 2016 and 2020 where does that bring the plan now that you've re-measured from a funded status on a PBO basis and then when you look out longer term is that substantially lower? Does that have a materials impact on the longer term cash reimbursements you'd expect to see as these prepayment credits are then collected and then you look beyond that? You got your money's worth for the question Carter.
So  I'm trying my glass  I think I'll answer your second question first.
So on a FAS basis amazingly enough our funded level ends up about the same point as end of the year last year about 78% with all the moving pieces on an Arista reserve basis which is obviously more important one because that actually determines our funding level.
We stayed about the 90% level just as again as where we ended the year last year.
I'm not sure I follow frankly the first part of your question Carter but I'll say that -- I'll just go back to the details that I gave.
I can't remember who I provided that to frankly but the pieces of the $100 million and the various components of that in terms of pension change.
So there were -- the real estimates that we took are affecting both service costs and actuarial losses to use the speak of the FASB and the 10-K and the 10-Q disclosure.
So those did affect both the service cost and the actuarial losses this year.
And they affected it just for the last six months of the year.
So you should think of those as increasing in future years only because there will be a full year worth of cost versus our service benefits versus half years for the same items there.
And I think your last question had to do with how does this affect recovery? What I'll try to convey is that I think our recovery remain strong.
And I think I gave some insight as to what that will look like and clearly relative to this $10 billion that we keep talking about in terms of pre-funding or funding advance of the requirements that is going to continue to drive our overall cash collections for the next decade or so and you're starting to see that materialize now and in the not too distant future.
Shannon I think that's getting us on top of the hour here maybe Marillyn some final thoughts or  Sure.
Let me wrap up.
I just want to conclude today's call by reiterating that we had another excellent quarter and we in my view continue to be very well positioned to deliver even higher value to our customers and our stockholders in 2014.
So we want to thank you again for joining us on the call today.
And we look forward to speaking to you at our next earnings call in October.
Shannon that concludes our call today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good day.
And welcome everyone to the Lockheed Martin Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Shannon and good morning everyone.
I'd like to welcome you to our third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Marillyn Hewson our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Statements made in today's call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities Law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see today's press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Marillyn.
Thanks Jerry.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
As we review our financial results and key accomplishments in the quarter as well as provide a brief update on some of our strategic initiatives.
As todays release detailed we continue to drive towards achievement of our full year goal with another quarter of solid operational and financial results.
Although we continue to face global economic challenges these results reflect the execution across all of our businesses as the Corporation continues to operate a very strong level in returning value to stockholders while providing critical solutions to our customers.
The daily focus and efforts of our team are the foundation of our ability to deliver broad-base results across the Corporation and I thank them for their ongoing contributions.
Turning to our financials while Bruce will cover the results in detail later I want to particularly highlight our continued exceptional cash generation.
This quarter we achieved approximately $1 billion in cash from operations bringing our September year-to-date cash generation to over $4 billion.
Strong cash generation is a longstanding hallmark of our Corporation and continues to be a differentiator as we return cash to stockholder through dividends and share repurchases while also making appropriate investments in the business.
Our strong and growing cash generation enabled by our Board of directors enabled them to approve two key cash actions this past quarter.
First we increased our quarterly dividend to $1.50 per share and $6 annually.
This action represents the 12th consecutive year that our dividend rate has been increased by double-digit percentages.
Second we also increased our share repurchase authority by $2 billion bringing our total current share repurchase authority to almost $4 billion and providing additional flexibility to continue to make future share repurchases.
Beyond the Board actions we recently completed our Annual Financial Planning process and projections of future financial metrics.
Im excited about the robust cash generation that the plan projects going forward and our ability to implement strong actions to deploy cash back to stockholders.
In light of our future projected cash flows we are implementing a new cash deployment initiative in which we anticipate reducing our total outstanding share count to below 300 million shares over the next three years.
Share repurchases of this magnitude coupled with our dividend payments would results in our returning vast majority of annual free cash to stockholders over the next three years and continue our longstanding strategy of disciplined cash deployment and value creation for stockholders.
Moving to operations while numerous mission success events were achieved across the Corporation I want to highlight two major events achieved by our Space Systems business.
In September our team successfully inserted the Maven spacecraft into orbit around Mars.
Space Systems constructed the spacecraft for NASA and also provides flight operations control of the vehicle as it surveys the upper atmosphere of Mars.
These surveys will provide vital data to scientist seeking to understand how the loss of atmospheric gas to space changed the Martian climate and potentially provide valuable insight into atmospherics dynamics here on earth.
Another area where key accomplishments were achieved by space is on the Orion program.
This quarter the inaugural spacecraft was successfully fueled at the Kennedy Space Center and its progressing towards integration with the Delta IV launch vehicle in November.
The program continues to progress and its in the final stages of preparation for its initial unmanned test flight scheduled later this year in December.
Orion remains an essential national asset in returning capability of manned access to space to our nation in the coming years.
We are proud to be serving as the prime contractor on this program and progressing on this critical capability for NASA and our country.
Id like to briefly switch to our international activities and provide an update on noteworthy achievements in this strategically important area.
Progress this quarter was seen both in new strategic partnerships and new business awards.
In the area of new international partnerships we opened a new Space Technology Office in the United Kingdom.
This office will expand our in-country relationships with U.K.
companies government agencies and universities.
We are looking forward to applying our 50-year heritage of Space Systems expertise to develop opportunities in environmental monitoring space exploration global security and secure space communications.
And we also opened a new space object tracking site in Australia to construct a more detailed picture of space debris for both government and commercial customers.
This site will use electro optical technologies and will compliment radar tracking systems such as the U.S.
Air Forces Space Fence program that we were awarded last quarter.
Beyond our footprint expansion initiatives new business awards from international customers this quarter included receipt of an $800 million contract from the Australian Department of Defense to develop a centralized information processing environment.
This program will significantly improve the efficiency of data delivery by consolidating the departments 280 data centers into 14.
Additionally we were very pleased that the Republic of Korea finalized its formal selection of the F-35 for their fighter replacement program and have announced their intent to sign a Letter of Offer and Acceptance between the United States and Korean governments for 40 F-35 aircraft.
This program is valued at nearly $7 billion for aircraft and associated support activities.
These recent actions and awards are representative of the growing level of activity that our international strategic initiatives are generating.
Im pleased to report that we are projecting achievement of 20% of international sales content by the end of this year achieving a goal we outlined to you a few years ago.
Growth in international business content is an essential element in our ability to generate future sales for the Corporation.
Projected international sales growth will help offset the impact of U.S.
government budget pressures on domestic sales levels.
With growing international demand expected for our products such as the F-35 fighter and missile defense systems Im increasingly confident that our annual international sales content could increase to 25% or higher in the next few years.
Before turning the call over to Bruce I wish to note that we are very proud to have recently been named to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and to two carbon disclosure project Climate Change Management Indices.
We are the only U.S.
aerospace and defense company to earn a spot on the world index.
And our CDP awards mark the fourth consecutive year our Corporation has been recognized for exceptional performance.
These prestigious awards reflect our continuing pursuit of sustainable practices through innovation transparency and sound governance.
They also reflect the broad commitment of our workforce that help engineer a better tomorrow.
Ill now ask Bruce to go through the details of third quarter and full year financial performance and our 2015 financial trend preview.
And then well open up the line for your questions.
Thank you Marilyn.
Good morning everyone.
As I highlight our key financial accomplishments please follow along with the web charts that we included in our earnings release today.
Let's start with chart three an overview of the quarter.
As Im sure youre aware shortly after the second quarter earnings call The Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 or HATFA was enacted.
And because this legislation extended the methodology for determining discount rates used for pension contributions established by the MAP-21 Legislation in 2012 it will have a significant impact on our results for the quarter the year and longer term as well.
Well describe the impact this had in the quarter below.
I will also spend quite a bit of time in upcoming charts describing these future impacts to you.
Sales in the quarter were $11.1 billion in line with our expectations though down slightly from last year.
Segment operating profit was also as expected at $1.3 billion with our segment operating margin remaining strong at 12.1%.
Our net earnings from continuing operations increased 5% to $888 million.
And this is where we first see the impacts of the HATFA legislation.
The effect of the legislation lowers our FAS/CAS income for the year by slightly more than $70 million and requires a retroactive adjustment in the third quarter amounting to $55 million or $35 million in net earnings.
Without this adjustment net earnings would have increased by 10% to $923 million.
Well see the remainder of the $70 million adjustment in the fourth quarter.
Our earnings per share from continuing operations increased 7% to $2.76 in the quarter.
And again these results were dampened by the impacts of the HATFA legislation in the quarter which amounted to $0.11 of earnings per share.
Without this retroactive adjustment our EPS in the quarter would have been $2.87 up 12% in the quarter.
Our cash from operations continues to be very strong with just under $1 billion generated in the quarter stronger than wed expected.
So I think we had another solid quarter results and were well positioned to finish the year consistent with our guidance.
If youll turn to chart four well highlight just how strong our cash from operations has been this year.
Our cash generated in the quarter was almost a $1 billion and this represents a 10% increase over our level from a year ago.
And on a year-to-date basis our results were even stronger with $4.1 billion generated in the first three quarters up 13% over the comparable time period last year.
Chart five shows our cash deployment actions through the third quarter with dividends to-date of almost $1.3 billion and share repurchases of approximately $1.7 billion.
Weve returned nearly $3 billion to shareholders through the first three quarters representing 82% of our free cash flow for the same timeframe.
And as Marillyn said in her remarks we also increased our dividend in the quarter at 13% the 12th consecutive year we have increased our dividend level by 10% or greater.
This payout level begins with our fourth quarter dividend.
On chart six well explain the impacts of the HATFA legislation enactment in more detail.
As I mentioned earlier the legislation was enacted after the July earnings release and in simple terms it impacts us by extending the methodology used to determine discount rates for ERISA contributions that was put in place with the MAP-21 legislation.
That methodology was an attempt to recognize the unprecedented low interest environment we were experiencing which would have required making significant cash contributions to pension plans.
The impact of the MAP-21 methodology decreases each year and would have phased out by 2016.
Under HATFA this methodology will now be extended so that it will begin to decrease in 2018 and phase out by 2021.
It has the effect of lowering CAS cost as well as ERISA contributions from what they otherwise would have been had MAP-21 not been extended.
As you will see the impacts of these changes are somewhat mixed.
They result in reduced pension funding requirements in the near term but also low recovery of pension contributions as it lowers our CAS cost in the near term.
And while lowering near-term CAS cost improves our overall competitiveness and lowers the required level of customer funding it also will lower our reported earnings per share in the near term.
Ill get into more specific detail of these impacts on the next page but overall we think these changes provide relatively neutral economic impact while having a negative impact on near-term GAAP earnings.
Chart seven provides more detail into how the HATFA changes will affect our pension recovery and funding requirements over the next three years.
And these projections are based on the underlying assumptions for our pension plan as shown on chart 14 in our appendix web charts.
Focusing on the column labeled before HATFA we were expecting to recover more than $7 billion through our CAS pricing between 2015 and 2017.
We also would have had $3.5 billion in required contributions over that same period resulting in a net $3.8 billion in pre-tax pension cash recoveries.
As you can see in the column labeled after HATFA we now expect to have CAS pension receipts of $5.8 billion while reducing our required pension contributions to $1 billion over this time period resulting in a net $4.8 billion in pre-tax pension recoveries.
As youll see in a couple of charts we intend to make this required $1 billion contribution in the fourth quarter of 2014 creating a three-year pension funding holiday and allowing additional cash deployment opportunities to shareholders over the next three years.
The bottom two bullets on the chart describe what these changes mean relative to approximately $10 billion of pension pre-funding amount.
By 2017 we will have recovered just under $5 billion of that amount and by 2020 we will have recovered a total of just over $8 billion.
With this level of pension recoveries we would expect our cash from operations to be greater than or equal to $15 billion over the 2015 to 2017 timeframe.
On chart eight we provided our updated outlook for 2014.
Were maintaining our orders outlook for the year while were ahead of our orders planned for the first three quarters.
We have the large C-130J multiyear order planned in the fourth quarter which could slip into 2015.
Were providing point estimates for those sales and segment operating profit as were increasingly comfortable with our ability to achieve these levels.
And both of these are above the midpoints of our prior guidance.
We also provided our usual sales and segment operating profit outlooks by business area in the appendix to our web charts today.
Our FAS/CAS pension income is lower by about $70 million as previously discussed.
But we now expect our other unallocated expenses to be lower by similar amount resulting in $5.6 billion of operating profit.
We are now guiding our earnings per share to the high end of our previous guidance at $11.15 per share which includes the negative impact of $0.14 per HATFA.
And with the additional $1 billion contribution to our pension trust this year our cash from operations is now expected to be greater than or equal to $3.8 billion.
On chart nine we provide our preliminary look at our 2015 financial trends.
We expect our 2015 sales level will decline by a low single digit rate from our expected 2014 level a little lower than we previously expected.
We had previously thought 2014 would represent the trough year of sequestrations effect on our topline.
But that has now moved out a year as we continue to see downward pressure primarily in our services businesses.
We expect our segment operating margin will remain strong at between 11.5% and 12%.
Our FAS/CAS pension income rose to about $650 million in 2015 after the affects of the HATFA legislation.
And assuming the discount rate remains at 4.25% at year-end 2014 our return on asset is 8% in 2014 and based on the additional $1 billion in incremental pension funding in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Again that would allow for no required pension contributions from 2015 to 2017.
Beyond 2015 with these same assumptions for our discount rate and return on assets we would expect FAS/CAS income to continue to grow to about a $1 billion in 2016 and $1.5 billion by 2017.
And because we are eliminating our previously plan $1 billion pension contribution in 2015 we anticipate increasing our share repurchases to at least $2 billion about a $1 billion more than the level required to offset the amount of share creep expected during the year.
This would be a good start reducing our share count level below 300 million share amount within the next three years that Marilyn mentioned earlier.
Finally on chart 10 we have our summary.
Our third quarter and year-to-date performance continues to be very solid.
Our results leave us well-positioned to achieve the full year guidance we provided and we continue our long-standing commitment to returning cash to our shareholders.
With that we are ready for your questions? Shannon? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
You may begin.
Hey.
Good morning.
Good morning.
A couple of quick ones.
Just first on the sustainment weakness you called out in Aeronautics in the quarter.
I wondered if you might give us some color about what that related to and whether that was tied to in-theater operations or something else.
Yeah.
I will take that one Carter.
So the sustainment weakness in aero was really I think of it is as predominantly F-16 or little bit in our Kelly business as well.
The F-16 you should think of a couple of things going on there.
We have a couple of large international F-16 month programs that are starting but they started later than we had anticipated or they will start later in one case than we anticipated.
And while we previously kind of expected to have some existing older mod programs sort of feather end to these newer mod programs we now have a bit of lowering point or a trough before we start to see the new programs pick up speed and thats whats driving the numbers stand a little bit in F-16.
On the other hand for the F-22 program this is a bit of good news can also be bad news in some respects.
We provide the sustainment of the F-22 aircraft in the field and the aircraft are actually performing better than our expectation and I believe better than the customers expectations.
And so because of that because our readiness levels and the like are higher than we expected them to be at this point in time were actually seeing a diminished level of spares requirement another sustainment activity to support the aircraft at that level.
So while thats terrific news for our products terrific news for our customers does result in a little bit of lower sales for us in 2015 than we previously planned.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jason Gursky of Citi.
You may begin.
Yeah.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Bruce the question for you on the cash flow outlook over the next three years.
You are going to do $3.8 billion this year which includes roughly $2 billion dollars in pension contributions that won't be there in the 15 through 17 period.
That would suggest on average $5.8 billion and yet you are guiding on average $5 billion in cash flows 15 through 18.
Can you talk a little bit about the puts and takes that are going on with cash flow? Where might we really come on to or where we might we go over? Yeah.
Let me try to take a shot at that Jason.
So I think you are -- the back of the envelope math you did would be exactly right.
$3 billion with $2 billion pension contribution why wouldnt that equal $5.8 billion next year? So the short version answer to that is think of that as primarily cash taxes.
So the additional $1 billion that we are contributing in 2014 think about as about a $350 million swing that we won't get that tax deduction if you will in 2015 and somewhat seems over at this point in time.
But we also had a tax refund in the first quarter of this year about $250 million.
So between the two of those think of that as what $600 million-ish or so.
I think weve -- the one thing I would add that may help little bit in discussion also is while we are saying greater than or equal to $15 billion we do expect 2015 cash flow to start with a $5 billion obviously at this point in time.
But I would expect that year-over-year our cash from operations would actually increase over that number between 15 16 and 17.
So we are actually feeling good about the statement of greater than or equal to $15 billion.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Rich Safran from Buckingham Research.
You may begin.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Let me ask you a different sort of question on cash flow here.
Marillyn I heard your opening remarks may just want to get a little specific.
Previously your stated goal was to return 50% of cash to shareholders.
I recognized youve been doing more than that but the $2 billion in share repurchases on the slide plus the dividend indicates now you're looking closer towards 100% assuming my math is correct here.
So I want to know if Im thinking about this right and does it represent a change in your cash deployment strategy? Should we be thinking now that you are going to return more like 100% of free cash flow to shareholders? Well youve got the math exactly right Rich.
That is exactly how that totals up and so we are indicating to you that we are going to be returning more cash to the shareholders over the next few years.
As Bruce just outlined we are going to have good solid cash flow and so we intend to be -- as we look back we have been providing more than 50% for the last few years but we intend to continue to do that.
So we continue to expect still expect to have strong dividends.
We still -- as Bruce as outlined we are progressing toward share level outstanding shares of 300 million.
Bruce do you want to add anything to that? Yeah Rich maybe just a couple of moving pieces that may not be readily apparent there.
So we have about -- we are probably in the year about 316 million shares or so outstanding.
And so we also have at the end of the year or as we sit here today about $6-ish million -- excuse me 6 million options outstanding as well then we would expect to be exercised over the three year period.
Plus as you know we provide executive compensation RSUs plus matching our 401(k)s and the like that will probably add another 10 million shares or so.
So if you just think of it in terms of what the absolute number of shares would have to be there its probably the 16 million shares to get down to 300 plus some of the creep we just talked about so.
At least as we look at we look at our operating cash flow over the next three years I think your math is pretty much spot on.
It does pretty much require us to do about a 100% of free cash flow over the next three years and that would be our intention.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
You may begin.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Bruce if I assume every segment except IS&amp;GS has the same topline rate of change in 15 versus 14 as it did in 14 versus 13.
I would need IS&amp;GS to be down about 10% just to get the total company down 1% and the low-single digit comment suggest it could be more than 1%.
Is that kind of the rate number for IS&amp;GS next year? Or is there another segment that is incrementally worse than what you previously thought for 15? And if you could just give a little detail on why IS&amp;GS is still dragging at that kind of decline? Yes.
So let me give -- maybe just go around try to touch on all five business areas at least at the topline Noah because I think you are not quite right in the way you did the math to come up with that number.
Okay.
So I think IS&amp;GS if we look at 15 itll probably be down mid-single digits maybe slightly more than that.
And thats probably pretty evenly split between our civil and the defense and intelligence lines of business there.
And what were seeing there is this is a portion of our portfolio that has always been -- I should start with that but always has been and seemingly has gotten increasingly competitive in nature to the point where were even seen sort of our follow-on contracts where were the incumbent and we won the follow-on contract.
Those are being awarded at lower levels than the prior contract were being awarded at.
We are also seeing the disaggregation of some contract opportunities and the sort of multiple elements of that contract that enable additional competition.
So thats a little different environment than we had expected to be in as were trying to forecast what 2015 would look like a year ago but thats the reality of where we are today.
I think the piece that youre probably missing a little bit is we are going to be down somewhat in Missiles and Fire Control probably more than youre expecting.
So Missiles and Fire Control see in total is probably going to be down about a similar amount like maybe a little bit less than IS&amp;GS and most of that is because we do have a pretty good size services business within the Missiles and Fire Control or technical services business.
And that is also experiencing the similar sort of hypercompetitive elements that we are seeing over an IS&amp;GS and so thats going down.
We are also down slightly or expect to be down slightly in 2015 in our air missile defense volume.
This is both PAC-3 and THAAD.
And thats just simply reflecting the lower quantities of missiles that were left a couple of years ago if you will kind of in the sequestration timeframe that are playing out in 2015.
I think Aeronautics is probably and I think you got this right Aeronautics is probably pretty comparable to where we will finish 2014 although thats probably a little lower than we had expected it to be primarily for the reasons that I described to Carters question.
I will point out that may not be clear.
We are down.
We always were expecting to be down in Aeronautics for F-16 deliveries from about 17 in 2014 to about 11 or so so think of that is like one a month of F-16 deliveries next year.
And that combined with the sustainment activity I mentioned the Carter is the reason that we are actually seeing a flat I'll try to make this simpler before my voice quivers here that we are making a flat year-to-year situation was what sort of lost and all that as we have a pretty significant reduction in SDD on the F-35 program but the F-35 production program is drawing a faster than a 10% rate from 2014 to 2015.
Space is down slightly.
Next year you should think about as sort of low-single digits thats primarily because we had two launch vehicles that we recognized the sales for in 2014.
We will have no such launch vehicles in 2015.
We also had slightly lower government -- we actually have one launch vehicle but we also have the Orion ETF which is yet to take place that will take place in December of this year.
So thats a higher volume for Orion as well compared to 2015.
We also have lower government satellite volume expected next year and thats partially offset by the volume from our Zeta acquisition but net net Space is still down.
And then lastly the one kind of outlier in all that discussion is MST.
And we are actually expecting MST to have potentially a little bit higher sales maybe a low single digit to higher than last year and you should think of that is primarily because of the new start activity on some of our programs such as the spacecraft program the combat rescue helicopter and the presidential helicopter.
So hope that gives you a little more added color there.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
You may begin.
I would like to hone in on the F-35.
It looks like your margin on the LRIP contracts in aggregate was down a little bit year-on-year for the second straight quarter.
I was just wondering if you could highlight kind of what your expectations are there.
Is there any risk reduction activity possible in Q4 and going into next year? And maybe just more qualitatively comment on whats happening? Thanks.
Joe I will take a shot at that.
So I think the primary reason that F-35 looks that way is we actually had some risk retirements in the year before that were not replicated in 2014.
And we are obviously booking those now at the higher rate that resulted from those step-ups in 2013 but we have no similar level of step-ups in 2014.
Actually as we look at 2015 I think the F-35 production volume in part because we do expect to make some step-ups next year that we didnt have in 2014.
We would expect to see the production volume or production return on sales actually increase next year as opposed to decrease.
So we are slowly getting there and its a bit of a slog to kind of go take a program as large as F-35 from a development to a low rate initial production to a full rate production program but were getting there.
And those step-ups depend on risk retirement events and the phasing of those things changes practically with every single lot.
I am happy that we just finished all the F-35 LRIP-5 deliveries and we are going to start delivering LRIP-6 aircraft this quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Harned of Sanford Bernstein.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Doug.
On Missiles and Fire Control when you look at the next year and backlogs were down in this quarter.
You talked about the service part of this but if you look at the sort of the broader business both not service but both the US and international since thats a big part of it.
Can you talk about how the backlogs look for those pieces? And if youre seeing the order flow come in and the timeframes that you would have expected to are we going to see those parts of the business up some in 2015? Just to be clear Doug are you talking Missiles and Fire Control by itself and sort of the international content there? Yes.
Missiles and Fire Control if you considered the services portion of it the US equipment portion of it and then the international part how are those moving in terms of orders and when we should see the revenues from those orders? Yes.
So Doug as I said previously the technical services piece is definitely going down and accordingly the backlog associated with business going down thats almost all US dominated services if you will.
The international business is expecting to increase both backlog and sales going forward.
We have already got.
In fact hopefully you saw there is -- todays announcement we had the turret contract for the UK Scout vehicle.
This is a subcontract arrangement to actually our facility in the UK was awarded today thats worth about a $1 billion that will be recognized as an order in the fourth quarter.
We also had the PAC-3 order for the Government of Qatar that occurred in the quarter.
Its already happened.
And thats about a $0.5 billion.
And as we look forward there is slight a few international Air missile defense activities.
Those -- as you can well appreciate those tend to be lumpy and little bit hard to predict but we would expect backlog in Missiles and Fire Control to grow in 15 compared to 14 and we would continue to expect the international content both in terms of sales as well as backlog to grow from 14 to 15 as well.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Hunter Keay of Wolfe Research.
You may begin.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Bruce I think if you could dive in a little bit about talking about the components of some of the margin erosion youre expecting to see next year at the segment level.
Is this may be parse it out for us between how much of it is a sort of pricing issue with regard to sort of mix shift? Maybe the customers are renegotiating some fixed price contracts that are rolling off? Are you just going to take some more development work? Or is it more just sort of a volume driven through the efficiency issue? Yeah.
I dont think its a simple deal to one of those Hunter.
So let me -- I probably should have done this but no one asked this question.
But let me try to address that here with you.
So were guiding towards at least the trend information that we provided we said we prior come between 11.5% and 12% next year.
The biggest reason for that the biggest single reason for that is were expecting cost of about a $100 million of lower equity earnings from our United Launch Alliance joint venture.
And you should think of that as being probably about three or so fewer launch vehicles in 2015 compared to what was launched or whats expected to be launched in 2014.
And its also the mix of those vehicles not every launch vehicle that gets launched by United Launch Alliance shares the same level of profitability.
It depends on which vehicle and when that vehicle is actually contracted for.
So again because of quantities of mix changes think of that has been about $90 million lower.
Were also seeing lower margin expectations back on the IS&amp;GS from the competitive pressures that we talked about early on the sales discussion.
So I would expect to see IS&amp;GS margins down probably 20 30 basis point somewhere in that range.
About half a bit sort of due to competitive pressures that we see that are affecting the sales as well as the bottom line there.
And probably the other half is -- this is probably a little bit of good new story.
The other half of margin pressure comes because weve won quite a few large international multiyear contract.
So think of this as programs like for the Australian Department of Defense were providing the IT services for them.
Think of it as a number of command-and-control programs for international customers.
And whereas the vast majority of IS&amp;GS business tends to be very short cycled in nature these are a little bit more longer term contracts.
And as you might expect well start booking those contracts at lower profit rates in part because our new customers and they are longer duration contracts as well.
Ill also mention that we had about $50 million of higher expenses next year 2015 because of intangible amortization and transaction expenses associated with the deals that were closing this year.
And we also have within that $50 million about $20 million or so of research and development expenses that are hitting the bottom line for Sun Catalytix R&amp;D efforts.
This is -- you may have read about this.
This is sort of our energy storage pre-revenue kind of business that we acquired.
It does require some continuing R&amp;D expenditures and this is non-far non DOD business for the R&amp;D hits the bottom line.
So collectively again between transaction expenses in Sun Catalytix about $50 million higher next year than last year.
Despite that I actually went back and looked at what we provided last year at this time.
In last year for 2014 at this time we were guiding towards about 11.5%.
Ill say the same thing this year that I said last year which as I look forward I think we have similar levels of opportunity to do better as we did in 2014 as we said here looking at 2015.
But we have to make those happen and thats the reason we have made those happen yet and well see how that progresses throughout the rest of the year.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Godyn of Morgan Stanley.
You may begin.
Taking my question Marillyn and Bruce.
There is no doubt that Lockheed has a differentiated core competence in aerospace.
And particularly if you assume that you win the Long-Range Strike Bomber like we do.
But when you look out a few years at certain point you have effectively tapped out of the organic growth opportunities that the air force so to speak has to offer.
And I wonder if you could talk a bit about how you see the shape of the company evolving in the longer term? Where do we find the growth from there? Do we start looking more closely at M&amp;A or do we evolve more into sort of a pure cash return vehicle? Whats next? Well I think as you talk about the outlook for aircraft and aerospace in general its still very positive for us.
Were going to continue to see F-35 growth well into the future.
I mean we often talk about how its very similar to the F-16 program.
Today we have a program of a record of over 3 000 aircraft and the F-16 we sold something like 4 600 of them and we still have continued demand for the F-16 and thats how we expect the F-35 to go.
So well there is a program of record with the U.S.
government on the number of aircraft that theyre going to buy.
We have a lot of interested countries internationally that have yet to come online in that procurement process.
A lot of partners as you know eight partners around the world now three SMSS customers with Israel Japan and now South Korea and we expect additional customers.
Plus some of those customers are early on and what their needs are and I expect that they will look at additional trenches of aircraft over time much that as they do with the F-16 program.
So well continue to be a strong aerospace company going forward into the future.
They would be a major element of our business.
Likewise the missile defense arena is going to be a continued demand thats a very important element of our business and there is strong demand internationally.
Even as we look at our needs domestically we expect there to be additional opportunities to use domestically but if you look at FAD PAC-3 Aegis Aegis Ashore even MEADS we expect going forward.
Another area that we are moving into and have invested significantly and have a tremendous product for is the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle thats a big opportunity as we look forward.
Littoral combat ship and the work that were doing in that arena there is interested international customers for that.
In fact we just launched the latest LCS at Marinette Marine this past week and we had international customers that attended that ceremony so theyre interested in our products.
We think there will be a demand for that as we go forward to C-130J.
That aircraft continues to be in demand.
Weve got a solid backlog of aircraft and we expect that theyll continue to be others.
And now as weve rolled out our commercial version we expect those commercial customers that today are flying L-100s to fly the LM-100J in the future.
So that will -- we'll continue to look at variance of the C-130J just as we have for many many years going forward.
So I kind of walk through on some of the top products in our portfolio.
But as Bruce mentioned earlier big opportunities in mission systems and components on various other platforms such as the combat rescue helicopter or the Presidential Helicopter the MH-60 Romeo that we are selling around the world that we do the mission systems for out of our mission systems.
Simulation and training continues to be a strong demand for that and overtime they will continue to be.
And as you mentioned our tuning with Boeing on the Long Range Strike-Bomber we expect -- we are very well positioned to win that opportunity.
Thank you.
And our next question from Rob Stallard of RBC Capital Markets.
You may begin.
Thanks so much.
Marillyn a question for you.
There have been some comments out of DC that maybe the U.S defense industry is not investing enough its own money in R&amp;D and perhaps returning too much money to shareholders.
Im wondering if this is a comment that you have heard from your customer and how they might respond to your latest announcement today on the buyback.
Well.
Yes we have heard that from our customers that a concern by our customer that we lose our technological superiority in this period of time when there are budget pesters and its a down market.
I would tell you from the Lockheed Martin standpoint we have increased our R&amp;D from last year to this year by 13%.
We are going to increase another 5% this year or so and we will continue to.
So we are at the highest percent of sales that weve ever been in terms of our research and development and we will be hiring in 2015.
We will continue to invest.
But I do think an open communication with our customer especially in the Department of Defense is really important.
And we are in constant dialog with them on what areas that we want to invest and how that aligns with what that they see as their priorities in the future.
A lot of our products as you know require a lot of development on the front end such as F-35 or of course we look forward to JLTV that we talked about and a variety of them.
So as we come out with products we are constantly investing but we are investing in new technologies.
We are looking at how do we help our customer get an advantage of our adversaries we have things going on that we cant talk about on this call.
But certainly there is a lot of investment in new materials and new capabilities that we think our customers will need.
So yes we are hearing it.
And I think from the Department of Defense standpoint because they recognized that I think they will in turn be looking at making sure that they invest in new technology and we expect to participate in that opportunity.
We do cooperative research and development with universities and with other government labs as well.
So when you look at our percent of IRAD you have to add to that the things that we are doing there and collaborative CRAD type of things.
We are -- we are major provider to DARPA.
So the work that we do with DARPA is another example.
So when you total it all up you cant just look at one number on the balance sheet.
You have to take into account the type of work we do the complexity of the products that we produce and how much research and development that takes on the front end in the development days as well as our independent research development and our work with DARPA and our CRAD.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
You may begin.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I was hoping Bruce maybe you could touch on the profit adjustments not related to volume and kind of whats baked into 15.
It looks like maybe for this year you will be running some where 32% to 33%.
And then also if you can just clarify on the sustainability of unallocated expense being at this level? Thanks.
Yeah.
So I think you are about right Myles I dont quite have the number on my head.
But we were a little bit lower in the fourth quarter in terms of our profit adjustments.
I would expect that we probably rebound a little bit at least as we look at the planning for the fourth quarter.
I mean obviously those can move out if we dont sort of accomplish all the events that we hold to that result in those risk retirements.
But as we look here today we would expect to bounce back up a little bit and that was in the year at about the level you said I mean somewhere probably in the 33% 34% of total profitability.
I would think next year is probably fairly comfortable.
We kind of tossed out the 30% to 35% as sort of where we expect that we were a little bit higher than last year.
But thats about what we expect to be going forward.
And then as far as the other unallocated I would not expect it to be quite at the level we are forecasting for this year in part because I mean there is a lot of moving pieces in that as you can well appreciate.
Though we had some -- we had some question corporate costs that got resolved in our favor during the quarter.
There was fairly the largest piece of those moving pieces and I would not expect that to replicate in future quarter so this is a bit of an outlier.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Rob Spingarn of Credit Suisse.
You may begin.
Good morning everybody.
This is actually Ross on for Rob.
I was just hoping to get a quick update on the expected timing for the signing of our patent F-35 and any other details you could provide regarding that contract? Well Ill update we are progressing well in the negotiations.
So I think that we expect to see a closure on that in the near term.
Its for 43 aircraft is what its the number of aircraft in that lot.
So well see larger number of aircraft in our update.
We have -- its progressing very well and we had good discussion with the customer and we expect to conclude the negotiations in the near term.
Thank you our next question is from Cai von Rumohr of Cowen &amp; Company.
You may begin.
Yes.
Thanks so much.
So Bruce if you could comment on aeronautical with respect to I think you took a contract reserve in the third quarter and also may be update us on the C-130 deliveries this year and next year given there was a slip on the F-16 and the implications of that F-16 slip on profitability next year? Thanks so much.
Yeah.
So actually we had two.
We said there are contract reserves that I probably better stated as sort of legal reserves.
One was to resolve a legal matter and other was a sort of to create a provision for a legal matter.
Two different -- two different items about the same quantity of each of them.
So it totaled up $30 million in the quarter.
I think we released that in the earnings release.
C-130 deliveries we do expect to end the year about 24.
We are going to run about 24 aircrafts build rates.
And you could possibly have one slip here and there between years.
But I dont expect that to happen in 2014.
We are tracking well to that schedule.
And I would 2015 would be a similar level at the 24 aircraft.
And then I think your last question was on F-16 and most for the profitability of that because we are losing volume of aircraft quantities obviously the profit dollars associated with those aircraft quantities will go down.
I wouldnt expect to see a huge drop-off from margin perspective year-over-year because of that I mean the aircraft quantities that are being delivered I still think well have comparable margins and the sustainment activity including the modern work that we do is also fairly comparable to the aircraft business that we have there.
So it may not be as self evident as when the quantity drops the profitability also drops or the profit and the margins also drops.
I dont think thats the case there.
Thank you.
Our next question is from George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
You may begin.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Little ones Ill patch together C-5 deliveries next year and do we get any chance of getting above the zero margin.
And then on the F-35 if you could breakout revenues by the different LRIPs and if there is any international revenue starting to pick up next year?  Yes.
George Ill take that one.
So C-5 were expecting to increase the rate you should -- I think we will do probably six maybe seven C-5s this year.
Were actually performing well in that program.
I think we grow that number to about nine expected deliveries next year so well see some volume increases associated with them.
I think there is a chance that well see some profitability increases George on that.
Were performing much better as we performed throughout 2014 towards the end of the year than we were even at the start of the year.
And assuming that trend sort of continues into 2015 I think that creates the possibility for that.
I think we talked on a pervious call about there is definitely some what we call over and above work that we think weve entitlement to that we do believe we can get reimbursed at some point time that is not yet played out.
But we continue to believe we have that entitlement which would allow more than what Im talking about just through Id say ordinary program performance improvements year-over-year.
So Im feeling better about the program going into 15 than I was into 2014.
The international revenue on the F-35 its -- the quantities are going and just roughly I think we kind of pulled out the number its a little bit out of off the top of my head but were probably somewhere between $1 billion and $1.5 billion in international revenue this year and wed probably expect to grow that number above $2 billion of the total F-35 revenue for next year.
So its growing at a fairly fast clip by itself.
Again the program in total the production program is growing more than 10% year-over-year from '14 to '15 so internationally we would expect to do that as well.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo Securities.
You may begin.
Good morning guys.
Its Gary Liebowitz for Sam.
Hey Gary   Couple of quick ones.
Bruce for your three-year cash flow outlook how should we think of capital expenditures over that period?  Yeah.
So you should think of those as being fairly similar to the level we had in 2014.
Gary we are right at around $1 billion between PP&amp;E capital expenditures and our capitalized software.
And thats about the level we see in the future.
It could be a little less than that maybe a little more than that but for planning purposes think right at about $1 billion a year.
Great.
And my second question and I apologize if you addressed it already.
The sales outlook in Space that you took up to $7.9 billion this year what was behind that increase?  Yeah.
so were getting -- again I think at the beginning of the year we had probably little more conservatism for some of the later in the year delivery events that would have going to occur including the Orion ETF launch which should be pretty spectacular by the way on December in the early part of December this year.
So that now we feel highly confident that thats going to occur.
That was one of the reasons were probably little more conservative with our guidance early in the year.
We had also made two acquisitions in the year Zeta Associates which is the larger of two and Astrotech which is little smaller but we are getting additional revenue from both of those as well.
Shannon this is Jerry.
I think we are coming up on the end maybe one more question.
Our next question is from Joe DeNardi of Stifel.
You may begin.
Hey good morning.
Hi Joe.
Bruce Im wondering if you could talk about given some of the budget uncertainty obviously weve had over the past couple of years is I think there is more confidence that thats bottoms out in '15.
Does that change the way that you think from a cash deployment perspective kind of balancing the dividend buyback and M&amp;A and clearly the M&amp;A side hasnt been a big piece of it the past couple of years? Do you see that changing at all over the next few years?  Yeah.
I sure help Joe that we do see the bottom out in 2015.
We kind of teed up we thought that was going to occur in 2014 and we were at least a year off there.
So as we look today I think that we do expect that to sort of bottom out for us in 2015 and we get back to accretive growth in 2016.
Thats kind of what the budget would indicate.
Im watching in particular the FY16 budget request and whether or not they sort of stick within the sequestration levels or actually potentially based it more on the actual threats than the strategic direction that the DOD needs to go into.
I think thats going to be an interesting one to watch.
As far how that plays relative to our cash deployment I dont see that having any necessarily large impact on how we would think of cash deployment activities.
I think weve given a little more insight into that by what we talked about today with the higher share repurchases that we plan over the next three years at least.
And as I always say with the dividends I think our track record on dividends is the best indicator of what well do going forward.
So Ill probably leave it at that and turn the call back over to Marillyn at this point.
Thanks Bruce.
We will just wrap up now.
I want to thank you all for joining us on the call today and just conclude by reiterating that the Corporation had another solid quarter.
And we continue to be well-positioned to deliver substantial value to our customers and shareholders as we progress towards a successful closure of 2014.
So thanks again for joining us and we look forward to speaking with you again on our next earnings call in January.
Shannon that concludes our call today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
And welcome everyone to the Lockheed Martin Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Shannon and good morning everyone.
I'd like to welcome you to our fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Marillyn Hewson our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Statements made in today's call that are not historical fact are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities Law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see today's press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Marillyn.
Thanks Jerry.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call today.
We hope that your new year is off to a great start.
Let me begin by saying that I am extraordinarily proud of our Lockheed Martin team.
We finished another strong year in 2014 achieving excellent financial and program performance.
Our performance has the corporation well positioned to continue to deliver value to customers and stockholders in 2015.
The daily efforts of our employees are the foundation of our ability to deliver broad-based results across the corporation and I thank them for their ongoing contribution.
While Bruce will cover the financial results in detail later on in the call I want to highlight a few key achievements and strategic items from my perspective as we closed out 2014.
Starting with new business the corporation continues to be successful in securing new order bookings for both domestic and international customers.
In the fourth quarter we achieved a strong 130% book-to-bill ratio for contract awards above sales and finished the year with a backlog of nearly $81 billion.
This marks the fourth consecutive year that we have maintained our backlog in excess of $80 billion.
Our new business success is aided by having the best position portfolio of programs in the sector with direct and unique alignment to many of the essential programs identified by both international and domestic customers.
These factors have enabled us to build a strong backlog consisting of multiple years of longer cycle production program and provides a strategic differentiation and financial foundation of future work.
I was also pleased that the international content of our backlog grew to more than $20 billion representing over 25% of our total yearend backlog.
The international component has us well positioned to achieve our stated goal of expanding sales from international customers to at least 25% of total corporate sales in the next few years.
This expected international growth also provides a significant benefit to our domestic customer by enabling economies of scale and additional cost leverage achieved through higher production volumes on programs across our portfolio.
Strategically our corporate-wide emphasis on fast [training] [ph] and expanding customer relationships and focusing on how we may best support their critical needs continues to provide a pivotal role in securing new business awards.
This past quarter I had the opportunity to expand our international relationships by travelling to the Middle East and meeting with key customers.
My activities in Abu Dhabi included participating in the opening of our Center for Innovation and security solutions in Masdar City further strengthening the corporation's nearly 40-year relationship with the United Arab Emirates.
I also travelled to Bahrain for discussions with high level representatives on our products and how we can best help them satisfy their critical national security requirements.
The common theme across my meetings was that all parties I spoke with reaffirmed their unwavering desire to secure the most effective solutions and products essential for national security in spite of any volatility in world oil markets and price levels.
Another strategic focus area where we have a long record of success is the generation and deployment of annual cash flows.
In 2014 we generated almost $3.9 billion in annual operating cash after making $2 billion in pension contributions.
This strong cash generation enabled us to provide a return of over 120% of our annual free cash flow to stockholders in 2014.
As we enter 2015 we are solidly on the cash deployment plan we outlined during the October call where we identified our goal to make at least $2 billion in share repurchases in 2015 and to reduce our total outstanding share count to below 300 million shares by the end of 2017.
Share repurchases of this magnitude coupled with our annual dividend payments would result in returning virtually all of our annual free cash to stockholders over the next three years.
Beyond the significant returns of cash to stockholders our increasing cash flow also enabled us to invest in the future of the corporation in areas such as research and development.
We continue to expand our focus and allocation of resources on next generation technologies and products.
In 2014 we increased investments in independent research and development activities to over $750 million reflecting the third consecutive year of significant increases in the strategically important area.
We are constantly pursuing new technology based solutions as we design and develop leap-ahead technologies to help address some of the world's most complex challenges faced by domestic and international customers.
These efforts will ensure we stay at the leading edge of technology and create potential foundations for future new business and important strategic positioning.
Moving to operations one of the highlights of this past quarter was the near flawless inaugural test flight of our Orion spacecraft.
This flight successfully tested key systems of the capsule to help pave the way for future missions into deep space and capture the imagination of people around the world.
The flight successfully tested a number of technologies that are fundamental to future deep space missions and included environmental and safety elements essential to the future of human space travel.
We are extraordinarily proud and pleased to be the prime contractor of the Orion vehicle and look forward to proving this unique exploration vehicle -- I am sorry look forward to providing this unique exploration vehicle to NASA and our country for decades to come.
In addition to the Orion operational achievement this past quarter key milestones were also achieved on the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter Program with progress in developmental testing and increased production quantity and tempo.
On the development program a major milestone was accomplished with the F-35 carrier variant successfully completing on-ship trials aboard the USS Nimitz.
The maturity and performance of the aircraft enabled achievement of 100% of the threshold test points and also included multiple successful night landings and launches during the aircraft's first test deployment at sea.
Beyond the carrier test for the U.S.
Navy we are also on track to provide the capabilities of this revolutionary fighter to our armed forces with initial operational capability of the F-35 STOVL variant for the U.S.
marine core later this year.
In the projection arena I am very proud of our aeronautics team as they achieve the delivery target of 36 aircraft in 2014.
This was particularly noteworthy as the team was able to overcome a nearly one month program hold for the engine anomaly that occurred last June and still achieved annual aircraft delivery goals.
This achievement is further illustration of the programs growing stability and production ramp up.
Overall the F-35 aircraft fleet continues to expand with 109 production jets delivered since program inception and fleet operations now surpassing 25 000 flight hours.
Customer support and funding for the program is strong and growing.
Finalization of the LRIP-8 contract was completed this past quarter for 43 aircraft reflecting a significant increase in order quantity above the 32 to 36 annual aircraft awards we received during the previous four fiscal years.
This new award helped bring year-in 2014 backlog of aircraft on the program to 100 planes.
Looking forward domestic and international customers order phasing outline of plant procurement of 61 aircrafts for the upcoming LRIP-9 contract further expanding the solid growth curve in aircraft quantity.
This increased rate of aircraft orders is an essential component to our ability to ramp up production levels and achieve the reduced price of the planes outlined in our blueprint for Affordability Agreement with the F-35 customer.
I would like to conclude my remarks with a brief status of government budget.
Last month the U.S.
Government passed the fiscal year 2015 omnibus spending bill to finance most federal activities through the end of the current fiscal year.
Passengers have still eliminated much of the procurement uncertainty caused by operating under the prior continuing resolution constraints.
Looking forward the White House is scheduled to provide Congress a proposed fiscal year 2016 defense budget next week on February 2.
The proposed DoD base budget is widely expected to be higher than the FY'15 level and above the mandated sequestration caps.
The higher budget request is in response to increase global security threats and military needs.
The FY'16 proposed budget will then undergo congressional deliberation and final spending priorities and funding levels over the coming months.
While the impact of the likely higher FY'16 proposed budget on future fiscal years is unclear at this time a higher FY'16 spending authority could signal bipartisan recognition of the critical need to increase DoD budget levels above the currently constrained limits established by sequestration.
These recent budget actions are positive steps in the creation of a more predictable and strategic approach to budget allocations while addressing the fiscal challenges we face as a nation.
I'll now as Bruce to go through the details of fourth quarter and full year 2014 financial performance our financial outlook for 2015 and then we'll open up the line for your questions.
Bruce? Thanks Marillyn and good morning everyone.
I hope you're all warm and drier this stormy day.
As I highlight our key financial accomplishments please follow along with the web charts that we provided with our earnings release today.
Starting with chart three and an overview of our year-end results we had a stronger finish to 2014 than we were expecting when we last spoke in October.
Sales for the year were $45.6 billion and I'll discuss that in more detail on the next chart.
Segment operating margin was 12.3% for the year about in line with our expectations and the combination of higher sales and segment operating profit drove our earnings per share to $11.21 higher than the guidance we provided in October but there were two unplanned items that had a net negative impact on the fourth quarter that I'll discuss in a few charts.
Cash from operations was nearly $3.9 billion after making $2 billion in pension contributions including $1 billion in the fourth quarter as we discussed at that time.
And finally orders for the fourth quarter were a little higher than expected resulting in our inning backlog of $80.5 billion.
So overall we had a good finish to a strong performance year.
On Chart 4 we will discuss our sales results in more detail.
In the fourth quarter sales grew by almost 9% compared to the same period in 2013 with four of the five business areas showing strong growth in the quarter.
Aeronautics growth was driven by volume increases on the F-35 production programs.
Missiles and Fire Control had higher deliveries of PAC-3 missiles as well as higher tactical missile deliveries mission systems and training had higher radar volume including the start-up of the Space Fence program and Space Systems grew primarily due to the Orion flight test that occurred in the fourth quarter.
Our fourth quarter performance led to full year of 2014 sales achieving slight growth over the 2013 results.
On Chart 5 we will review our earnings per share for the quarter and year.
Fourth quarter EPS was $1.32 higher than the prior year driven primarily by three items.
The change in the FAS/CAS adjustment from an expense in 2013 to income in 2014 the absence of the restructuring charges taken in 2013 and a lower goodwill impairment charge in 2014 that occurred in 2013.
I'll describe the goodwill impairment charge taken in the fourth quarter in more detail on the next chart.
For the year EPS was more than $2 higher than in 2013 driven again primarily by the FAS/CAS adjustment change in the essence of the restructuring charge in 2014.
Turning to Chart 6 to reconcile our actual earnings per share results with the guidance we provided in October.
In October we projected our EPS for the year to be around $11.15 per share.
And as I mentioned previously we had two unplanned events that were not considered in the EPS outlook we provided last quarter the first of which was a special charge we took for goodwill impairment in our tech services line of business.
And this was in Fire Control this chart reduced our EPS by $0.33 and this was the second consecutive year we've had an impairment charge against this business and again reflects both a reduction in support activities in theater as well as the increased level of competition we're seeing for this business.
The second unplanned event was the passage of the R&amp;D tax credit legislation in the quarter which generated a $0.14 benefit to EPS.
These two events lowered our outlook for EPS by $0.19 but were more than offset by the higher sales and segment operating profit in the quarter.
Chart 7 provides more detail into our cash deployment actions in 2014 with cash from operations of nearly $3.9 billion and capital expenditure of around $850 million our free cash flow for the year was a little more than $3 billion and after making dividend payments of nearly $1.8 billion and share repurchases of $1.9 billion we returned 121% of free cash flow in the year.
Over the last 10 years we've made $30 billion of dividend payments and share repurchases to our shareholders or 108% of free cash flow over that same period.
On Chart 8 we show our backlog results of the last four years.
Our backlog levels have remained above $80 billion and each of the last four years despite the budgetary pressures that our customers are facing.
As has been the case in prior years a strong fourth quarter in 2014 enabled us to achieve these results.
Chart 9 provides significant assumptions in our 2015 guidance.
Our FAS [audio gap] resulting in the lower discount rate at year end.
Asset returns in 2014 of 6% rather than 8% assumed in October make up the remainder of the lower income outlook.
While affecting GAAP EPS these pension changes do not create the need for any additional cash contribution over the next three years.
As I noted in the October call we do not expect to make pension contributions from 2015 through 2017 and our expectations of generating more than $15 million in cash from operations over the next three years remains unchanged.
Consistent with our longstanding practice our guidance does not assume an extension of the R&amp;D tax credit until legislation is enacted.
If legislation similar to what was enacted in 2014 is passed in 2015 we would expect the EPS benefit to be comparable to the 2014 amount.
And consistent with what we discussed last quarter we plan to make at least $2 billion in share repurchases in 2015.
Turning to chart 10 we provide our current outlook for 2015.
Our guidance today is consistent with what we provided in our trend information in October except for the lower FAS/CAS adjustment.
We expect both orders and sales to be in a range from $43.5 billion to $45 billion and we expect our backlog to remain above $80 billion at year-end for the fifth consecutive year.
We expect our segment operating profit to be between $5.1 billion and $5.25 billion.
Our EPS is expected to be between $10.80 per share and $11.10 per share.
And our cash from operations is expected to be greater than $5 billion.
Chart 11 shows the ranges for sales and profit by our business areas.
And finally chart 12 is our summary.
2014 was a strong year both operationally and financially.
We are confident that our portfolio has us well-positioned for the future and we remained focused on the cash deployment actions that our shareholders expect.
With that we're ready for your questions.
Shannon? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] [Audio Gap] And then it also appears net of disposals that you spent the most on acquisitions this year that you have since 2006.
I wonder if you can just provide a little bit more detail on the strategy with regard to R&amp;D where the spending might be going and how the customer is behaving these days with regard to independent R&amp;D versus them paying for your R&amp;D.
And whether we ought to view the acquisitions that you've been making here at late as kind of an extension of R&amp;D.
You're acquiring technologies that perhaps you didn't have and where you find the growth areas and just kind of the strategy behind R&amp;D in the acquisitions going forward holistically.
Sure.
Thanks for the question Jason.
I get just first to talk a little bit about R&amp;D and new technology.
We have been increasing our R&amp;D expenditures over the past three years.
This year we were up -- for 2014 we were up another 8%.
And we're doing that because we're not going to cut back on R&amp;D even though that our sales are not growing at the same trajectory that they have maybe for the past decade or so.
Because it's really the lifeblood of our company and we are a technology company and we have to continue to invest.
From our customers' perspective we do spend time with our customer on our R&amp;D plans.
And lot of credit to Secretary Kendall in bringing us into the Pentagon to talk about our top IRAD expenditures and areas to make sure that we're well aligned with what the priorities are for the Department of Defense.
And moreover as we look at our customers around the world we're looking at how do we invest in research and development that will allow us to secure new business and to grow our current business.
Beyond that we're a long cycle business so we're constantly looking at how we can continue to invest for the long-term as well.
So it's a balance of both of those areas to make sure that we're looking at things that would be giving our allies and our customers an advantage over their adversaries for the long-term.
In terms of how we address R&amp;D and cooperative research and development we kind of look at both of those elements as being an important part of investment but we also are doing things that are beyond IRAD investment.
For example we use other avenues to develop next generation products and solutions.
If you look at what we're doing on the U.S.
Air Force's T-X competition that's coming out in 2017 we actually had teamed with South Korea to develop the T-50 supersonic trainer for their air force under an offset program and we're able to take that investment that we made in an offset program and point it toward the T-X competition.
So that's a great example of where you might not necessarily see it in the value of an R&amp;D investment that we're making those investments.
I think if you look back years back we did a similar thing on the C-130J which is just paying dividends for us in the markets that we're operating in with the C-130J program where we made investments in our business along that line.
Taking it on beyond that into acquisitions yeah we did more historically than we have done this year in 2014.
There are areas that we're continuing to penetrate into our core such as our Zeta Associates acquisition and that being very much aligned with our core.
Some areas such as the healthcare IT arena and Systems Made Simple is an area that is part of our IT work with the U.S.
government where we've been frankly for the past 20 years the top supplier of IT support and this is an opportunity for us to bring more to markets like the VA medical DoD medical etcetera.
The Astrotech acquisition we made in space launch is very much aligned with our core with services there.
But then we're also looking at areas to bring in additional capability to the corporation in places where we want to take our core into new markets like [indiscernible] with the IT work we're doing in airports and things along that line.
What I will say is that as we've said we have a very strong cash deployment plan that we're going to follow but we also are generating cash and we also have a lot of financing capability as a company.
That debt capacity allows us to have the flexibility as we see additional opportunities for acquisition that make sense for us that allow us to continue to invest in M&amp;A.
So we'll be looking at acquisition that are as you said able to add capability but also ones that open up new markets for us that are closely aligned to our core capabilities.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ron Epstein of Bank of America.
You may begin.
Yeah.
Good morning.
Sorry if my connection is a little weak just working remotely here.
Maybe just a follow-up on Jason's question.
By my calculations you guys will -- you spent something like 1.5% of sales on R&amp;D is that enough? When you look at other technology companies they'll spend multiples of that.
I mean how do you think about that Marillyn? Well I don't think you can look at the absolute dollars honestly because I think when you look at our portfolio and when you look at what we've done over the years it's not a matter of percent of sales so much as it is the efficient expenditure of R&amp;D dollars.
So we've made choices in things such as JLTV the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle which is a large opportunity that we're pursuing that hopefully the award later this year will bring to us an opportunity that is a significant new growth market for us.
And that started with an acquisition some years ago that brought some technology in and then we built on that technology.
So it's not just the dollar level on a percent of sales.
And the other thing is if you look at things that if you look backward -- I mean I don't think we missed anything in terms of our portfolio and things that we have won because we have and invested in research and development for the long-term.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Pete Skibitski of Drexel Hamilton.
You may begin.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Pete.
Maybe one for Bruce.
Bruce I was wondering if you could help us again maybe update us like you did in the last quarter on the cash from ops and bridge from '14 to '15.
Just because it looks like maybe cash taxes were a little higher than expected in '14.
You've got obviously zero pension cash needs in '15.
It seems like maybe $5 billion is good as it is might even be conservative.
Can you help us understand why that could be what you do? Yeah.
So Pete let me try that.
I tried to give some of this in the October call but I think it's probably worth repeating just to make sure everyone is on the same page.
So I think the simple math would say you did $3.9 billion in 2014; you did $2 billion of pension contribution.
It seems like you should be around $5.9 billion versus the $5 billion.
I think theres kind of two or three pieces probably two that drive most of that.
One is we have additional -- because of the $1 billion contribution made at the end of the year '14 we're going to get actually tax deductions worth about $350 million in '14 that won't carry over into 2015.
We also had in '14 a tax refund of about $0.25 billion so $250-ish million or so I think was the number.
So that's what $600 million or so a sort of bridge from just a cash taxes if you will either refunds or cash out for taxes.
And then the last thing if you just look at our -- at the level of income that we're projecting from 2014 and 2015 we're down a couple hundred million dollars so if you just translate those earnings into cash that pretty much makes up the difference about $900 million.
And again I'll remind you Pete we keep saying we're expecting to be a little greater than $5 billion and I think that potential is still there.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Rich Safran of Buckingham Research.
You may begin.
Rich you there? Rich your line is open.
Please check your mute button.
Shannon let's move to the next one.
Our next question is from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
You may begin.
Hi.
Good morning all.
Good morning.
Marillyn I really appreciate the comments on international post your visit but I wondered if you might give us a little bit more color about how you think about how much of your business is those sort of core strategic capabilities that you're delivering to those customers versus the stuff that is perhaps more support oriented or perhaps commoditized in some way.
Is there a way to kind of rack and stack your international business and say this portion applies to the key capabilities like THAAD and PAC-3 and the like? And how should we think about that? So I'd say first off that the key areas of growth for us internationally are certainly in the missile defense area in Asia-Pacific and the Middle East.
Just as you mentioned it's THAAD its Aegis Aegis Ashore Patriot potentially MEADS we hope to sell in addition to that F-35.
I mean those are core and that's the majority of our growth in the international.
It's our core business that we're growing.
Now we are having some additional areas of growth and things like cyber which is an expansion of work that we've been doing for years for the U.S.
government that we're able to grow into other areas; our IT work.
But the big dollar items within our growth in international are core business that we have C-130Js continue to sell F-16 the air and missile defense the U.K.
turret for the scout vehicle and for warrior things of that nature.
Hopefully that answers your question Carter.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
You may begin.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning Noah.
I wanted to ask about two bigger programs new programs on mature computing and just kind of get a broad update from you.
Maybe on LRSP I was specifically wondering if you could talk about work with theoretic will be done and if capacity were need to be added.
And then if there's anywhere as well update on JLTV and on that one if you could potentially size what that could ultimately be for the company if there as a win.
Thanks.
Well first of all LRSP I can tell you that we're teamed with Boeing.
We think we have a very strong position on that program and pursing it and there'll be a word sometime this year and that's all about I can tell you about them.
I'm sorry but that's that all I can say.
In regard to JLTV its a very significant opportunity for us.
The RFP is out; our proposals are due early in February.
And the award for that is projected again this year we think mid-year we don't know.
Our guess is as good as yours as which quarter because as we know a lot of times protest immerge and things of that nature.
But in terms of the program itself its a big opportunity for us.
Bruce in terms of size I think you go ahead.
Yeah.
I think Noah the -- I think the RFP came out and there's they're asking for various production quantities over various years sort of the stated number of vehicles is somewhere around 17 000 vehicles and you can probably do the math as well as anyone as far as what that total production program would be for.
But its -- we should think about it as a multi-billion dollar sort of award for the initial proposal which is the development program in the first few LRIP contracts.
And then it's got potential obviously well beyond that for both additional domestic vehicles as well as the international market place.
So this is although the initial award that we're expecting to have happened this year hopefully without protest pushing it out is not all that sizable.
The strategic opportunity is very great.
I could add on that one where we're going to produce it going to you talk about that.
So it's in Camden Arkansas we have facility there where just this past year we went through the production readiness review with the U.S.
Government and it was very successful and so we're excited about the opportunity on the JLTV.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Doug Harned of Sanford Bernstein.
You may begin.
Good morning.
Hi Doug.
Good morning.
I am interested in your thoughts around how you work with the changing budget by that I mean if you look forward we're at a point where their prospects for arising budget arising base budget certainly but at the same time we're seeing the end of a lot of operational activity in theater that's been going on for many years.
So when you look at this how do you think about your exposure to some of the con ops that have been going on? Is there much left and where is it and then at the same time how do you think about investing where there is going to be growth and not just R&amp;D but BMT potentially facilities.
How do you manage this transition? Thanks for the question Doug.
I would say that we spent a lot of time on our strategic planning as a company and keep a beat on whats happening in the environment that we're operating in and we look both and where the opportunity are relative to growth in the DoD budget as well as you know our focus on the international market place.
And we look at you know the -- sure there is a draw down in regions where we're bringing our war fighters home and that has some impact on things like our services business and things of that nature.
But where the real opportunities for ours are is to not only continue to grow with the F-35 program which today represents 17% of our sales and will continue to grow to a larger percentage in 2015 and beyond.
As we just talked about the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle JLTV is the big opportunity for us.
We're looking forward to C-130J multiyear opportunity really to our combat ship and as the U.S.
Navy moves forward with their 52 ship buy on the small surface combatant so going beyond the current Littoral combat ship those are all areas for growth.
And as we -- we believe that we do have the strongest portfolio.
So we're constantly looking at as the U.S.
Government determines where they have to recapitalize then can't sit still either even though in this current timeframe may be the situation in terms of a war environment is not as high.
Will they use up a lot of aircraft and a lot of systems and vehicles in those wars and they've got to recapitalize and when we believe we're well positioned to take advantage of that because we are continuing to focus on providing greater capability and new technology and take an advantage of that advanced technology.
So thats where our R&amp;D our bid proposal etcetera on facilities we have looked at how we take capacity out.
We've taken out over seven million square feet of capacity since 2009 but at the same time we've opened some new labs we've opened up some new areas.
So I think what we try to do is adjust our capacity to not only the business space but to the areas where we need to invest to continue to grow as a business.
So I think we do a good job of assessing the changes in the environment that we're operating in and we adjust our facilities our investments and our pursuit of acquisitions and research and development funding accordingly.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
You may begin.
Good morning.
I wanted to actually somewhat follow-up on that last question which is the guidance has top-lined down in 2015 a few percent at the midpoint.
You did make some 900 million worth of acquisition.
So I guess first part which is what is the organic sales trend in 2015 and also given budget trends can you see positive year-over-year sales in 2016 at this point and if not what does it take to get there.
Hi Sam.
Ill take that one on.
So you're right we talked about roughly $900 million in acquisitions in the year.
I think the inorganic growth in the year 2014 was about a little less than $250 million.
And you should think of that growing to about three quarters of a billion dollar or so about a $0.5 billion increase in inorganic growth year-over-year from '14 to '15.
So thats sort of where we see that playing out there.
I think it's important to note that in our planning of 2015 and what we've talked about up to this point is all based on the current Budget Control Act without consideration of what Marillyn was talking about in her opening remarks about the potential increase in the FY '16 budget.
As we look at that the interesting thing and I know I've talked to you guys about this in some of the investor conferences I think the interesting thing is not necessarily what happens with the FY '16 it's what happens with the budget beyond FY '16 because if you just get the spike in FY '16 and then you go back down to the Budget Control Act you really go back down to levels that cause an elaboration in '16 and then you're back square one in FY '17 and beyond and it doesnt make a whole lot of sense from a strategic planning perspective.
I'll say even with that scenario again we dont have either spike in FY '16 in our planning outlook nor do we have anything in FY '17 and beyond.
We do believe we will start to see growth in FY '16 and particularly within the aeronautics business areas where we're expecting to see growth and I'll say as I sit here today Sam I feel pretty comfortable actually saying we're going to see some growth -- organic growth starting in FY '16 or 2016 above the 2015 level.
And at least our planning Sam for years beyond '16 assumes that that growth continues.
So we're sitting actually looking forward to that with the potential for hopefully some good news coming out of the budget -- the President's budget process in the not too distant future.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Rob Stallard of Royal Bank of Canada.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Its [indiscernible] for Rob Stallard.
Good morning.
Marillyn I was wondering if I could follow up on Carters question and your comments about visiting the region last year.
You made a lot of investments there which very much you mentioned at Masdar as well as [indiscernible].
Is your sense in talking to your customers there that the current energy prices going to have any impact on the pace at which export contracts could be awarded in the medium term.
Well we're really not seeing any pull back on their expenditures on national security because that in terms of their priority that's very important and it's true that for a lot of our key countries that's an important source of revenue for them.
But when you look at countries like the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia UAE Qatar and others they have very substantial government reserves and so what they're looking at -- as long as the prices dont stay down for a long extended time which none of us know how that will play out but we've not seen anything that would impact our portfolio and what we bring.
So no change so far on their critical means they still have -- they will operate in dangerous neighborhoods and they still have needs for missile defense and tactical aircraft and range of communications systems.
Perhaps there may be some pressure on some of our less priority programs such as IT upgrades or services or things of that nature but in terms of the big ticket items and the items that I am having the dialogue with them about it has not come up.
I think they're very much focused on their highest priority requirements and those happened to be the things that we can bring to them as we move forward.
Thank you our next question from David Strauss of UBS.
You may begin.
Good morning.
Good morning.
What specifically with F-35 program it looks like last year you had about an $800 million increase in sales but no increase in prop as it relates to the production program.
Can you talk about what you got baked into your number this year some up any sort of EBITDA increase out of production program.
And then second question Bruce can you talk about the advanced line I think it was like about $500 million drag can you just talk about the outlook for advance systems here? Thanks.
So David I think your map is pretty accurately.
We were a little bit flat.
I am just looking at some numbers here in terms of the production program.
We actually had a overall profit actually -- let me just take a peak here.
Overall profit actually was up slightly on the F-35 program in total the production program and thats primarily because of the lack of the SPD write-off that we took in 2013.
But the production program was fairly flat in terms of total profit dollars and actually the margin was down.
I think thats the point that you're have talking at.
We had some step ups on the production early contracts in 2013.
We had some planned step-ups in 2014 some of which we took but not all of which that we had planned did we take in 2014.
So that got pushed off to the right and that caused the situation that you're describing in 2014.
As we look forward to 2015 I am still expecting and I know we've talked about this as recently as the Investor Conference we had in Fort Worth.
I am still expecting a 100 basis points or more improvement in the F-35 production program margins between 2014 and 2015.
And we're hopeful that that trend will continue at least year-over-year sequential increase in the margins on the production program in years thereafter but the biggest spike we're expecting is between 2014 and 2015.
And I think a big reason for that maybe -- we closed the year pretty strong from a production perspective on the F-35 program.
We had a month -- almost a two-month delay in production activities or at least delivery of the aircraft because of the engine anomaly that occurred in 2014.
Yet we made all 36 aircraft delivers.
We actually had a chance to exceed that number.
So I think as we closed out the year things were looking and feeling better on the production program than say when we started the year and I am hopeful that that trend will continue into 2015 and thats what we're banking on with that margin increase.
On the customer advances that I think the actually burn is about -- we're expecting it to go down about another couple $100 million or so.
You're right it was down about a $0.5 billion from '13 to '14.
Some of that is simply the nature of -- we're actually seeing a little bit of conversion from and I think we've talked about this from some of our direct commercial sales contracts to more and more FMS contracts that tend to get negotiated concurrently with the U.S.
Government buys.
We're seeking that for instance on the F-35 program with aircraft and we're seeing that also on a lot of missile program be they Hellfire missile [indiscernible] PAC-3 and the like.
So a lot of the -- a lot of the historical and this is just in large part due to the customer change but a large part because of the F-35 growth which is all going to be FMS in the near term.
We're seeing some burn down of sort of the legacy direct commercial sales.
It has not been replaced by new commercial sales down payments in part because those are in fact FMS contract.
Kind of long-winded answer to that question David.
Hope that makes sense for you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Joe DeNardi of Stifel.
You may begin.
Yes thanks.
I guess just another one on the F-35 if you could just kind of talk about what caused some of those step up to get pushed out of 2014 and how the budget outlook for that program which seems to be improving kind of plays into how do you think about the margin profile improving on the production side? Yes so Joe Ill take that one as well.
So we always go through at every year thinking that there is a planned level of booking rates and especially on programs that are early in their life cycle as is the F-35.
And in 2014 we had planned to have some increases on the production program and again for the reasons that I described to David some of that were simply in the early part of the year it made no sense whatsoever to have margin increases when we're actually sitting ideal because of the engine anomaly.
And that did cause some disruption overall to the performance at about first half of the year leaking into the second half of the year and so that caused some of those increases to get pushed out just as I described.
That's the reason I was making the point.
I think where we ended the year was a good point for us on the production programs.
And that does give us the confidence that 2015 you will see those step ups made.
And that's the reason for the margin improvement that I talked about with David.
And again our expectation is a little bit spiky from '14 to '15 in terms of a pretty good sized jump in the margins on the production program but thereafter we continue to expect that margin to increase year-over-year as we go through the production program.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
You may begin.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hi Joe.
Hi.
So on Aeronautics F-35 I was wondering Bruce if you might give little bit of an update.
Obviously we had our meeting a couple months ago in Fort Worth but just little update on where you stand on deliveries this year for -- specifically for F-16 and C-130.
And then key pursuits little bit about the multi-year in particular on the C-130 side.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Thanks Joe.
So let me give you just sort of a -- may be a long-winded answer to the question.
So F-16 deliveries -- I think to keep this up in the past we're going to drop -- I think I keep this up in the October call.
We had about 17 -- not about we had 17 aircraft deliveries for the F-16 program in 2014.
We're building about one a month you should think of it.
So we're looking at about 11 or 12 deliveries probably in 2015.
I think current contract schedule would consist of 11 aircraft there.
On the C-130 we're at a pretty steady build rate between years.
We did 24 aircrafts in 2014.
We would expect to do 24 aircrafts in 2015 as well.
And that's -- again that's the expectation.
That's sort of a good build rate.
In fact; we'd prefer to sort of build with that steady rate as oppose to having sort of spikes that would cause us to have a little bit of disruption.
We'd rather build at that steady rate.
And with the backlog that we have in the program we're able to do that.
C-130 multi-year so we got I'd say some partial funding on that at the end of 2014 and we expect to close the rest of that the balance of that in 2015 but the value is not as large as it was at the end of the year the sort of partial funding on a fiscal year basis towards that multi-year.
Joe maybe inherent in the question -- I'm sorry I didn't talk about the F-35 program.
So we did 36 aircraft deliveries in 2014.
That number is going to increase probably in the 40 maybe a couple more than that.
We're actually working with the joint program office later in the month of February to sort of finalize the production delivery plans.
And we do that because it actually does require resources on both sides both the government resources as well as company resources to do this.
So we'll have a better idea and more definitive idea of the F-35 deliveries next -- probably next time we talk to you in April.
But I would expect that we'll be somewhere in again the 40 may be a couple more than that as we said here today.
And then the last aircraft program I guess for the Aeronautics business area we delivered seven C5s in 2014 we expect that number to go up to nine deliveries.
And I think we stayed at about that level probably until the program winds down through the last delivery of the C5 modernization program.
One thing while we're talking aircrafts and deliveries and quantities Joe I want to make sure that everyone understands as at least we look at sort of the phasing of our revenue in 2015 it's going to be bit on an odd year.
We're very very heavily weighted in the second half.
The first quarter in particular is very unusually low or we expect it to be very unusually low on a compare basis because of our delivery phasing.
And that's both associated with the Aeronautics aircraft that I just talked about.
I think we've got two fewer F-16s in the first quarter and two fewer C-130s both in the first quarter of 2015 compared to the first quarter of 2014.
But combined that with the fact that Missiles and Fire Control is going to have a pretty significant drop off in the first quarter of deliveries of their missile programs both tactile missiles PAC-3s and the like.
We could see the first quarter revenue being down as much as say 5% year-over-year compared to the first quarter of 2014.
And then obviously it will build from that point on to the levels that we're seeing for the full year for 2015 so a little bit of an unusual pattern for us.
We always have the pattern where the fourth quarter is higher than the rest but we're starting off 2015 our least expectation probably a little lower than it ordinarily would.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
You may begin.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
First of all is a clarification.
I might have missed it but the international sales in 2014 I think the last two years have been about 17% of sales but you can just give that number for '14.
And then Marillyn as you look at the Middle East as kind of a customer base and you think about the threats that exist there that's one aspect but the foreign policy and what we choose to do there is another.
Just hypothetical if the U.S.
does move more towards the normalization with Iran over the nuclear activities does that in any way impede which you see as progress not for our military sales-front there from a dealer's perspective.
Thanks.
Thanks Myles.
Well first an answer to your question we achieved 20% of our total sales of an international sales in 2014.
So we're pleased with that and we have over $20 billion in our backlog at year-end of that.
We've set a new goal to get 25% over the next few years.
Our growing international area is an important element of our strategy and growth for the company and we see a lot of expanding demand for international growth expanding demand on missile defense on aircraft programs on a range of things.
To your question about foreign policy and normalization and things of that nature in my discussion with our customers that really isn't coming up.
I mean it's very clear to the Middle East region that that dialogue is going on.
But front and center for them are the needs they have today what their critical national requirements are today.
So our discussion is that -- is around those national security needs that they have and there're certainly plenty of threat in the region.
Just the volatility even if there're maybe some kind of deal done with Iran there is volatility all around the region.
And each one of these countries believes they've got to protect their citizens and the things that we can bring to them help in that regard.
So similarly that's the Middle East and I know that's what you asked about but you could take that same argument to the Asia-Pacific region which is another growth area for us.
A lot of volatility a lot of instability a lot of things that are happening both with North Korea as well as some of the tension between China and Japan and -- so in both of those regions which are growth areas for us we expect that there's going to continue to be opportunities for us to bring our capabilities to them.
Thank you.
Our next question is from George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
You may begin.
Yeah.
Bruce I noticed that all the margins that you project for '15 in each of the sectors are down relative to '14.
Now Aero is explainable with mix space maybe explainable with less venture income.
But can you go through why they are down in all the other sectors? And if you could maybe lay out what you think would be kind of the normalized number that we'd wind up reaching in terms of these margins because it will be the second year that we'll have seen a decline.
Yeah.
George I'll try to take a shot at.
Thats a good question.
So even though you kind of gave the answer for a couple I'll go ahead and try to hit all five business areas from my perspective maybe from what we're seeing in 2015 and then sort of a longer term view.
So Aeronautics in '15 in part because of all the discussion we've had up to this point on the F-35 production part and the fact we expect to see some increases there.
F-15 -- 2015 is really looking fairly comparable from margin perspective for Aeronautics.
Longer term we've talked about the fact that as F-35 increases even in the scenario that I described with year-over-year margin increases those will still be lower than the composite average margin for Aeronautics if you will.
So that will still be dilutive just because of the growth of the F-35 program.
And that's what we expect to see their longer term.
Missiles and Fire Control is may be slightly lower but -- than 2015 but I'll say that's probably pretty comparable when you look at it big picture wise and we still think we have some of the same opportunities in 2015 as we had in 2014.
Longer term I would expect some reduction in higher margin business that we've got there particularly if we're successful for instance winning the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle you would expect us to have that program start off at a lower booking rate than some of our legacy long production programs long production missile programs out of missiles in Fire Control.
And so I would expect to see again longer term some reduction in the margins in missiles and fire control from the level we experienced in '14 and probably '15 as well.
Mission Systems and Training is down slightly in '15 compared to '14.
You should think of that really primarily as a result of new program starts.
So programs like Space Fence like the combat rescue helicopter like the new presidential helicopter; those are all early starts on larger programs that are actually driving a lot of the organic growth of MST there.
And that's coming with lower margins than some of their heritage production programs just like I talked about on Missiles and Fire Control.
There is also within MST in 2015 some of the last of the restructuring charges that remember we talked about in 2013 we took the severance charges but there were still ongoing restructuring charges for things like facility closures and facilities rearrangements and so forth.
There is about $20 million or so higher restructuring cost in MST in 2015 or 2014.
So that's putting a little bit of pressure there.
Longer term I think it's going to be fairly comparable to where we end up 2015 maybe a little bit higher if some of that restructuring expense goes away and hopefully we start to have some increases on some of those early program starts that I talked about.
IS&amp;GS we teed up in the October call that we thought it would be down about 30 basis points or so from 2014 to 2015 and I describe that as about half of that just being sort of the increased level of competition recompute disaggregation breaking down contracts and so forth.
And the other half of that 30 basis points was we changed some of the backlog with an IS&amp;GS to have an number of longer term international programs that extend over multiple years a little bit different than sort of the heritage IS&amp;GS business and those were starting off just as any new program with lower overall margins of the composite and that was sort of the other half of the 30 basis points that we talked about.
So if you rewind back to the end of the October call it would have said we should be looking at probably somewhere in the 87-88 range for margins at ISGS.
We're little lower than that and all of that George is because of the transaction expenses associated with the acquisition we made at the of last year for systems made simple.
So that's bringing another 30 basis points or so reduction to IS&amp;GS' overall margin.
So while that acquisition is EPS dilutive it is actually cash accretive in year one.
So that's something we're happy to take those charges and again longer term for IS&amp;GS is that as those transactions cost start to play out expect to see some slight increases in the IS&amp;GS profitability margin levels from where we are today.
In Space you talked about -- the earlier earnings we teed that up in the October call that the equity earnings associated with the United launch alliance are down pretty considerably.
In 2014 versus 2015 a lot of those is just the mix of the launch vehicles we have there and that's driving the biggest single piece of that.
The other piece that may not be evident again is we also made couple of acquisitions for data and the satellite processing business that we acquired last year.
Those also are bringing transaction expenses in 2015 that were not in 2014.
You should think of that as about a 20 basis point or so impact in the margins of space systems company in 2015.
And just as I described on the systems made simple or the acquisition for IS&amp;GS while they are a little bit EPS dilutive in 2015 both of those acquisitions are cash accretive in 2015.
So we're happy with that.
Longer term for Space Systems I think we get back at about the 12% margin we're a little bit like to that in 2014 but as some of these -- again transaction expenses go down and by the way some of the restructuring cost that we have in Space System start to wind down I think you'll see the overall margins getting back to sort of a normal run rate with the ULA equity earnings at about the 12% level.
Shannon this is Jerry.
I think we've run over the hour a little bit.
So I'll turn it back over to Marillyn for final comments.
Sure.
Thanks Jerry.
I just want to wrap up the call by again saying that the corporation achieved another excellent year in 2014 and we continue to be well positioned to deliver substantial value to our customers and our stockholders as we moved strongly in 2015.
So thanks again for joining the call today.
We look forward to speaking to you again in our next earnings call in April.
Shannon that concludes our call today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good day and welcome everyone to the Lockheed Martin First Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Todays call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Karen and good morning everyone.
I would like to welcome you to our first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Marillyn Hewson our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Statements made in todays call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see todays press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Marillyn.
Thanks Jerry.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call today.
We are pleased to have you join us to review our first quarter results.
As todays release outlined we had another solid quarter operationally and financially.
The corporation continues to deliver critical solutions and products to our customers while also returning value to our stockholders.
I am extraordinarily proud of the efforts and focus of our team and their significant accomplishments across the corporation.
And looking at the results for the quarter we achieved or exceeded our expectations.
I am very pleased that strong year-to-date financial performance across multiple business areas enables us to increase 2015 full year guidance for operating profit and earnings per share.
In addition to these increases to guidance we reaffirmed our earlier outlook for full year orders sales and cash from operations.
In addition to these solid financial results we have continued to return value to stockholders in the areas of share repurchases and dividend payments through our cash deployment initiatives.
In the quarter we repurchased over $600 million of our shares and remain committed to achieving the goal we outlined earlier this year to repurchase at least $2 billion of our shares in 2015 market conditions permitting.
This ongoing repurchase program enables us to progress on our related goal of reducing total outstanding share count to below 300 million shares by the end of 2017.
These repurchases combined with our quarterly dividend repayment returned over $1.1 billion in cash to stockholders this quarter.
Turning briefly to DoD budgets in early February the President released his proposed fiscal year 2016 base defense budget at $534 billion reflecting a request with $35 billion more than the spending limits established in the Budget Control Act.
The President also proposed an additional $51 billion in spending for overseas contingency operations or OCO.
Combined the two proposed spending packages totaled $585 billion and if enacted represent a significant increase in total funding for defense above prior year levels.
In March budget resolutions were passed by both houses of Congress that outlined total defense spending level that equals or slightly exceeds the amount requested by the President.
The congressional resolutions are a bipartisan recognition of the need for greater investment in defense spending to respond to increasing global security threats aging military assets and the imperative to improve the readiness of our Armed Forces.
The resolutions left in place the Budget Control Act sequestration cuts to the Defense Department space budget while increasing funding for the OCO overseas contingency operations.
This approach is intended to enable utilization of funds from the OCO to pay for other defense items outside the normally restricted war-related costs specified in the OCO.
While it is too early to predict the final level of FY 16 defense budgets it is encouraging that the President and Congress are aligned in their recognition of the need to increase defense spending from the recent constrained levels.
We look forward to finalization of congressional budget deliberations which are expected to be completed later this year.
Moving outside the DoD budgets momentum continues to build with respect to our strategy to expand international business and the success of this strategy remains a priority to me and the corporation.
This past quarter I had the opportunity to travel to multiple countries in Europe and the Middle East to participate in wide ranging discussions on our spectrum of products and services and the increasingly complex geopolitical environment which requires proven and adaptive solutions at home and abroad.
In Europe I had the opportunity to participate in the Munich Security Conference on international security policy.
This meeting included extensive discussions on current and future security challenges and included attendees from more than 70 countries who exchanged views on defense requirements.
Well in the Middle East I was able to travel to both Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates where I met with senior government leaders who discussed these current and future regional security issues they face and how we might work with them to address their requirements.
These discussions reinforced my belief that our international growth strategy is sound and working.
There is an acute need on the part of international customers for an increasingly wide range of our products and services as the geopolitical environment becomes more complex and less predictable.
These expanding requirements further position the corporation to achieve our goal of generating at least 25% of annual sales from international customers in the next few years.
I would like to move to the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and provide a brief summary on the progress of the program that we are achieving and reaching key milestones and securing new business from international customers.
Recent production milestone accomplishments included rollout of the first F-35A aircraft from the final assembly and check out facility in Italy.
This represents the first time an F-35 has been assembled outside the United States.
It also demonstrates the ability of the Italian facility to complete the fifth generation stealth aircraft and underscores the global partnerships within the F-35 program.
Beyond this production accomplishment the flight test program continues to progress with completion at the 1 000 sortie at Luke Air Force Base the 500 sortie at Nellis Air Force Base and the overall F-35 fleet surpassing 30 000 flight hours.
These events highlight the increasing tempo of flight operations across the country at an expanding number of sites.
New business support of the program continue to grow internationally this quarter with letters of acceptance signed by Israel for 14 additional aircraft and by Turkey for four aircraft.
Additionally the Netherlands placed an order for its first batch of eight production aircraft.
These recent actions reflect the expanding commitments by international countries to secure this fifth generation aircraft for their future fighter fleets.
Its noteworthy that the program of record identifies over 700 aircraft to be acquired by 11 international countries and illustrates the strong future demand for the F-35 by our allies.
Almost half of the projected annual orders over the next 5 years are scheduled to be placed by international customers demonstrating the importance of international participation on the program.
Turning to the development program we have continued to finalize the software that will enable initial operating capability or IOC of the STOVL aircraft for the U.S.
Marine Corps later this year and are also progressing on the software that will enable the Air Force variant aircraft to achieve IOC in 2016.
This past quarter we successfully conducted initial flight test of the enhanced software that will be used to provide IOC to carrier variant aircraft.
The commencement of these flights with this software is the key element to enable us to provide this revolutionary aircraft to the U.S.
Navy in 2018.
Overall the F-35 program is retiring development risk increasing the production tempo and securing new contract awards as we expand our activities on the program.
Before turning the call over to Bruce I want to highlight two noteworthy milestones that occurred earlier this month in our aeronautics business and a key event this past quarter in our Mission Systems and Training business.
On the Aeronautics C-130 program we were enormously proud to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the rollout and first flight of the inaugural production C-130 Hercules in April 1955.
With almost 2 500 C-130s delivered around the world to 63 countries it remains the worlds most fielded cargo aircraft.
The C-130 program has the sole distinction as the worlds longest continuously operating military production line.
Since the debut of the A model 60 years ago the C-130 has incorporated multiple model revisions product improvements and upgrades and its evolution to the J version produced today.
This 60-year history of continuous improvement also created demand by commercial customers seeking to reconstitute their aging L-100 airlifter fleets with a new LM-100J version extending the footprint of its program beyond domestic and international government customers.
On the C-5M program a super galaxy aircraft recently established 45 pending new world records in airlift capabilities.
And after the results are certified we will hold a new total of 86 aeronautics records.
Our upgrade program to install 25% more powerful and fuel-efficient engines on the aircraft has significantly enhanced the ability of the C-5M to reach speeds at a faster rate than predecessor versions and enable cargo transport over longer distance between refueling.
We are very proud of our upgrade actions on this airlifter as we deliver expanded strategic air mobility capabilities to world fighters.
With unmatched flexibility versatility and relevance the C-130 and C-5 aircraft will continue to provide essential airlift service for our nation and international users for years to come.
Turning to Mission Systems and Training in February we were honored to participate with the Air Force at the groundbreaking ceremony at Kwajalein Atoll to mark the start of the construction for the Space Fence radar system.
This ground-based radar system will improve the way objects are tracked in orbit and increase the ability to predict and prevent space-based collisions.
The multi-year program will also serve as one of the drivers for future sales growth in the MST business area as we deliver this critical enhancement to our national capabilities.
I will now ask Bruce to go through the details of the first quarter financial performance and our increased 2015 guidance and then we will open up the line for your questions.
Thanks Marillyn.
Good morning everyone.
As I highlight our key financial accomplishments please follow along with the web charts that we included with our earnings release today.
Beginning with Chart 3 we have an overview of our first quarter results.
Sales for the quarter were $10.1 billion and this was in line with our expectations.
We will provide more color on our sales results on the next chart.
Our segment operating margin was better than expected in the quarter at 12.9% and enabled us to achieve earnings per share of $2.74.
We generated $957 million in cash from operations also in line with our expectations but lower than we have historically generated in the first quarter.
We will discuss the quarterly phasing of our projected cash from operations for the year in a few charts.
Our cash deployment actions remain strong with $1.1 billion of cash return to shareholders including more than $600 million in share repurchases.
And because of our operating performance in the first quarter we are increasing our full year outlook for both operating profit and earnings per share.
So I think we are off to a very solid start to 2015.
On Chart 4 we compared our first quarter sales results for 2015 with our results in 2014.
Sales are lower by about 5% compared with the first quarter of last year but as you recall we said that this was our expectation during the January call.
The lower sales level was driven primarily by two business areas Missiles and Fire Control and Aeronautics.
In both cases fewer deliveries drove the reductions PAC-3 and tactical missile deliveries and Missiles and Fire Control and three fewer aircraft deliveries in aeronautics.
We remain on track to achieve the sales outlook we provided at the beginning of the year.
Chart 5 compares our segment operating margin this quarter with the first quarter of 2014.
Segment operating margin was 50 basis points lower this quarter compared with the same period last year but remained near historically high levels.
Three of the five business areas had higher margins this year than in the first quarter of 2014 with Space Systems having the largest increase due to higher risk retirements.
Mission Systems and Training had a strong performance quarter but was unable to match its near record level margin results from the first quarter of last year.
IS&amp;GS margin was down considerably from last year at this time though we had expected a fairly large reduction when we provided our outlook for the year in January.
The first quarter results were lower than expected due to performance issues on an international program.
Results from the rest of the IS&amp;GS portfolio of programs were stronger than expected and we are able to offset much but not all of the impacts of this program.
Overall our performance was better than expected and resulted in our increase in segment operating profit for the full year.
Turning to Chart 6 we will review our earnings per share results this quarter with our results from a year ago.
Our EPS of $2.74 was $0.13 lower than the results from last year but higher than our expectations and because of this we increased our EPS for the year as we will discuss in a few charts.
Chart 7 provides details into our cash deployment actions during the quarter.
And as we previously mentioned we repurchased more than $600 million of our shares in the quarter more than we had planned in our initial guidance projections and combined with dividends paid of nearly $500 million when we returned $1.1 billion of cash to our stockholders or 131% of our free cash flow in the quarter.
We expect to have a larger amount of share repurchases in the second quarter utilizing the greater level of cash we have on the balance sheet as a result of the debt issuance we had in late February.
On Chart 8 we discuss our updated outlook for our full year 2015 results.
We are not changing our guidance for either orders or sales at this time though orders in the first quarter were slightly ahead of our expectations.
Sales as we mentioned earlier were as we expected in the quarter.
We are increasing our profit projections by $50 million as a result of our strong performance in the first quarter.
We are also increasing our earnings per share guidance by $0.05 but there are several moving pieces that deserve more explanation and we will provide that on the next chart.
We are leaving our cash from operations guidance unchanged but I do want to mention that our phasing this year will look different compared to our results in recent years.
We expect that our quarterly cash phasing will be significantly weighted towards the second half of the year with as much as two-thirds of our cash coming in the last two quarters of the year.
We expect this phasing in part because our cash collections will mirror the increased delivery rates we expect throughout the rest of the year and we anticipate reaching final agreement on a number of contracts in the second half of the year that will bring cash collections with them.
Chart 9 provides a reconciliation between our prior EPS outlook and our current expectations.
The increase in our segment operating profit outlook will increase our expected EPS by $0.11 per share.
As we previously mentioned our share repurchase activity in the first quarter was slightly higher than we had planned and we also had a lower level of options exercised in the quarter than we were expecting.
The combination of these two items results at a lower average share count level than our previous projections and improves our estimated EPS for the year by $0.07.
We now project our full year average share count will be just over 315 million shares.
Offsetting these EPS increases is the additional interest for the remainder of the year for the debt issuance that closed in February.
Netting these changes together we now expect our EPS for the year will be $0.05 higher than we guided in January to a new range of $10.85 to $11.15 per share.
On Chart 10 we provide our sales outlook by business area for the year with no change from the outlook we provided in January.
Chart 11 shows our current outlook for segment operating profit compared with what we were expecting last quarter.
We increased our profit outlook in four of our five business areas with Space Systems having the largest increase for the year at $30 million.
The other three business areas for each increased by $10 million to $15 million and we lowered our expected full year profit for IS&amp;GS by $20 million for the reasons we previously discussed.
And the net change for the company was a $50 million increase in our segment operating profit outlook.
Finally Chart 12 provides our summary of the quarter.
We are off to a solid start for the year with our results either tracking to or exceeding our expectations for the first quarter.
We remain committed to our cash deployment actions to generate returns for our stockholders and the breath and strength of our portfolio will enable us to achieve these results.
With that we are ready for questions.
Karen? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question for today comes from the line of Peter Arment from Sterne Agee.
Yes.
Good morning Marillyn and Bruce.
Good morning.
How are you? Bruce could you I guess give us a little  if you can give us a little more color on the  you said the $70 million adjustment or lower profit I guess accrual in IS&amp;GS in the quarter from the international program? Sure.
I will start and if Marillyn has something to add to this she will surely do so.
So this was a fairly good sized international program.
One of our sort of commanding control entrance that we are selling internationally this was a pretty complex system that we were developing under Iran and as we got into the actual integration of this system in country that turned out to be more complicated than we originally anticipated.
We think the charge that we took in the first quarter has this effort I will say sized appropriately for the remaining work to be done.
But I think importantly we also think that there is a greater market potential for this product once its installed and its showing its capabilities.
So we are optimistic there is a chance for future profitable sales with this impact or with this product going forward.
I think the good news in the quarter with an IS&amp;GS is there  if there were a number of performance improvements in the rest of the portfolio so the way I kind of think about it is we have one issue one fairly large issue on a large program that was offset by a sort of a number of improvements across the rest of the portfolio or maybe said it differently but for that IS&amp;GS we have had a very strong quarter except for that one contracts.
I dont have anything more to add other than just to say that the contract size is less than $500 million so just to keep it in perspective.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Rob Spingarn from Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Hi Rob.
I just wanted to follow-up on the profit side.
Your margin guidance is generally below your performance in all the segments than what you saw in the first quarter especially when you made the adjustment in IS&amp;GS for the $70 million so was there anything other than conservatism baked in there? Rob I dont think that we have consciously tried to bake either conservatism or optimism in there.
We always start every year by saying that or at least I think I do by saying that we think we have the potential as we go throughout the year to have similar levels of risk retirements and profit pickups through the year as we had in prior years.
This issue that it is on the international program and IS&amp;GS is the thing that sort of proves that thats it can sometimes go both ways there.
So these are not just given this is not just conservatism as we go throughout the rest of the year.
As we look forward I think the timing of risk events  there tend to be the back end has a few less events than we have had in the first part of the year.
We also had in particular with the Space Systems for instance significantly higher weighted ULA equity earnings in the first quarter as compared to the whole year.
I want to say if you look at on a percentage basis probably 45% of the equity earnings for Space Systems occurred in the first quarter and the remaining 55% or so will be spread over the next three quarters.
So its just a lot of facing.
We did have a couple of  within the business areas a couple of sort of contractual or administrative settlements that happened in the first quarter that we are not expecting to materialize in the next three quarters as we sit here today.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Rich Safran from Buckingham Research.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Marillyn I heard your remarks about the budget at the opening.
If so if we assume for just a moment that the FY 16 budget is above the spending caps maybe closer to the request or if OCO funds are applied I wanted to know if you had the sense of what the priorities would be for any additional funds where there might be upside to Lockheed Martin programs is this the kind of thing that would impact your short cycle business at IS&amp;GS or is this long cycle business or maybe both? So first of all I mean in terms of the budget itself you are right the President base budget is significantly above the Budget Control Act sequestration budget caps that were out there.
And but just to remind you those limits still remain in place from FY 16 and beyond.
So its important that Congress address that as they move forward and they took a stab at it with these solutions by increasing the OCO in order to fund some additional spending but until they do some statutory change that really doesnt change the sequestration thats out there.
So we really need the President to consent to these  to the OCO offers that they have and he wants an increase in both defense and domestic spending cuts I mean cap so we know thats the case.
However back to your question about what it means for us certainly F-35 and C-130Js are important.
In fact if you looked at whats comes through on the unfunded priorities list there are six F-35Bs on that list coming in from the Marine Corps and another eight F-35s or Cs for the Navy that are on the unfunded priorities list.
So to the extent that additional funding is found thats important.
Moreover on the C-130 there are another 13 aircraft there and the KC-130J have another two aircraft.
And then there is a number of other items that have additional funding that are in our portfolio as we go forward.
I would just say that in terms of long cycle versus short cycle business its you hit right on I mean building an aircraft doing a long lead funding and going through the production process we are well over 3 years on our aircraft and when they are in development even longer than that with the F-35.
And so as we get things lined up its as we get funded for these then that business there is just a long cycle business that will be in our portfolio will be in our backlog and thats important.
A lot of things also are related to what happens with our troops and whats going on in the various conflicts around the world and so we will just have to watch how that transpires as well as to what kind of funding that Congress and the DoD in order to address those continuing threats.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Hi good morning Marillyn and Bruce and Jerry.
Thank you for your remarks.
Good morning.
Marillyn there has been countless headlines about all the challenges the F-35 faces some of them are history that people like to dredge up and talk about things that you have already solved in terms of problems.
And then there are things that you are still wrestling with everyday can you kind of bring us to the point where we understand how to ignore some of the bad news and how you are coping with some of these issues that still arent where you would like them to be? Great question.
Thank you for that question.
We are challenged with that regularly because it is the largest program with the Department of Defense and its a complex development program so its challenging in that sense.
And every year as you know the GAO comes out with their annual report.
There is an OT&amp;E report that comes out annually to Congress.
There are a myriad of reports that are required just given the size of the program so we take every one of those reports into account.
We read them all.
They are not always exactly right and I think thats just the facts of the matter.
What we try to do is stay focused on performance because thats the first and foremost thing that we can do to continue to keep this program on track.
I will say from a status standpoint if you look back at some of the technical challenges we had early on we have solved the landing hook.
We solved the helmet issues.
The software programs are going well.
So from that perspective the program is maturing.
The development program that we are moving through we are 65% complete on that.
And we're going to continue to ramp up the production.
Manufacturing is going well.
Last year we delivered 36 aircraft from 2014 and this year we are going to deliver about 45 so you can see it ramping up.
We are going to  as I mentioned earlier the initial operating capability IOC for the Marine Corps is going to be happening this summer and you have heard from the Marine Corps that they are confident.
We are also confident that they will meet their IOC.
And so from that perspective I think the key is to not react to every media write-up is going to say its largest program and it will reflect back on initial stages of the program but if you look at  since we rebaselined the program in 2010 we have been on track with our cost and our schedule performance.
We have rolled out a blueprint for affordability jointly with the U.S.
government that is driving cost down.
And by the time we move into full rate production the cost of the F-35 will be comparable or lower than a fourth generation fighter with much more capabilities.
So I would just encourage you to continue to watch us track through the ramp up of the production the things we are doing to drive the cost down and as we continue to move through the flight test program.
And as each of these services declared their initial operating capability and as we continue to rollout more and more capability to the aircraft I think that our nation and our allies are going to be very proud to have the requirements the national security requirements capabilities that this aircraft will provide for many decades to come.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr from Cowen &amp; Company.
Yes thank you very much.
Aeronautics help me understand you did 11.8% margin in the first quarter with deliveries expected to get better as we go through the year on the mature programs and yet it looks like the margin goes down.
And as I read your commentary it doesnt look like there is anything abnormal in terms of the positives I mean there is that $25 million risk retirement but so why dont the aeronautics margins kind of hold near where the first quarter is for the rest of the year? Yes.
So Cai I will take that one on.
I think probably the biggest reason is we have got two things going on there.
One we have a pretty good size ramp obviously on the F-35 program in total as compared to the rest even with the delivery increases that you talked about.
So you have the F-35 dilution effect occurring there.
I think what maybe lost a little bit in your question there is C-5 deliveries are expected to increase fairly significantly over the first quarter just in terms of quantities and thats another program that has a lower margin than the overall aeronautics program in general.
And I think the combination of those two is what we are seeing right now offsetting the higher margin we had in the first quarter.
But having said that I still think we are going to end the year at 11% or more and I do think there are  there is potential that we can do a little better than that of some of the risk retirements break a little early for us or come a little larger than we have in our current outlook.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ron Epstein from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hey good morning.
Just a quick question for Bruce just a couple of details.
When you look at the financials it looks like this year if you add up your accounts receivables and inventories divide it by sales you are running at a little bit of a higher rate thats 95% than you historically have.
At least for recent history recent history seems like its been more like in the 70% to 80% range.
Whats driving that? Whats driving that buildup in working capital? Yes.
So a couple of things I think if you just look at the first quarter Ron we have a historically low AR at the end of the year is sort of the payment offices clean up everything if you will on their docket if you will.
A lot of it has to do even with the timing of when we closed the first quarter.
So I think historically you actually do see that we usually have a spike in our accounts receivable in the first quarter because of those two phenomenon.
Inventory is growing a little bit.
And in part thats one of the elements I was trying to describe in my prepared remarks that talk about some of the contractual resolutions are contractual finalizations that we are expecting in the second half of the year.
We expect to have some collections associated with those as things like our billing arrangements get finalized and the performance-based payments terms get finalized.
And so we would expect to have some reduction in our inventory account going forward.
At the end of the day Ron I think our  the spike we see in working capital in general for all elements of working capital not just AR and inventory we expect that that will probably come down over the next three quarters of the year and probably end the year not too differently than where we started the year or ended the year 2014.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky from Citi.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning Jason.
I just wanted to ask a question about missile defense in the marketplace there today in light of recent awards that have been going on internationally.
Can you just talk a little bit about the competitive dynamics that are going on there and what you think the opportunity that is for Lockheed with the various products you have had and the contribution to Patriot just kind of update us on the market and what the opportunities are specifically for Lockheed going forward? Well sure.
I would just start by saying that it continues to be an expanding demand for missile defense in Asia-Pacific and the Middle East for our products along the lines of the THAAD Aegis Aegis Assure Patriot and potentially MEADS as well.
As we look at for example MEADS I know there was an announcement today about Raytheon winning the opportunity in Poland but we have bought Patriot or PAC-3 is part of that system  that Patriot system.
So its an opportunity there for us as well but we still have an opportunity in Poland that meets international and selected to participate in technical dialogue on a short range air and missile defense system called Narew in Poland and we expect to continue to be in that dialogue.
And thats one that the MEADS system is the only one that offers the capability network and integrate on a variety of air missile defense system elements including things that are developed in Poland their sensors their command and control etcetera.
And in Germany in the midst of their evaluation to make their decision on their air and missile defense system and as you know they have invested a fair amount into the MEADS system along with Italy and the U.S.
And so we expect to participate in that opportunity and we hope that they will select meet as they move forward on their selection.
Around the world though I think there continues to be a very strong demand as you look at Aegis continues to be a demand for Aegis.
Aegis Assure we stood up or are in the midst of standing up our Aegis Assure in Romania we have another in Poland.
And so that opportunity in the European theater is also important.
There are discussions with  there is South Korea on both PAC-3 and ultimately on THAAD interest in the Middle East by a number of countries on PAC-3 and THAAD.
So I think that you are going to continue to see  continue demand for our portfolio that we have a very strong set of products and capabilities in that arena thats going to continue to have a demand.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak from Goldman Sachs.
Hi good morning everybody.
Good morning Noah.
Good morning.
Bruce on the debt you raised intra-quarter it kind of looks like the interest expense you have added to your full year earnings outlook includes interest on all of that is that true? And it looks like intra-quarter you were discussing the potential to use some of that to refi.
So if you do that is there an opportunity to later reduce the interest expense for the full year? And then beyond refi what else are you going to do with this cash? Yes good questions Noah.
So I think the average interest rate for the  because we did it in three tranches of varying sizes but the average interest rate is about 3.5%.
So I think to your question  your first question I think we are just taking the 3.5% with the last 10.5 months or 9.5 months whatever it is of exposure on the debt.
And that is what the interest calculation is for this year.
Going forward we did talk to you I think on the last  not on the last call because Id have the intra-quarter to your point but I think in the disclosure we did for that we described that we would potentially look at taking out some near-term debt maturities that mature in 2016.
We actually have sort of two tranches that happened in 2016.
They worth a little less than $1 billion combined and so we would expect that and those are  one of those at least as a fairly good sized interest has pretty  a fairly good sized interest coupon on the debt.
So we would expect interest to mitigate some in 2016 as we take out that roughly $1 billion of debt with the proceeds.
And then the rest of it is strictly general purpose Noah.
And as I try to tee up in the earlier remarks I do think that we could use the potential for that for additional share repurchases throughout the rest of this year and moving into 2016.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Hunter Keay from Wolfe Research.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So Marillyn you talked a little bit about the  you reiterated 25% international mix over the next few years but do you feel like maybe given an improving domestic budget environment right now that may be that number kind of goes back to the 20% level over the next couple of years if you maybe consider that 25% going higher as maybe a function of maybe worsening domestic environment budgetary conditions if the domestic budget environment continues to get a little better than we all thought may be last year at this point is the international opportunity is that still robust enough for you to get to that 25% level even if domestic is picking up better? My answer to that would be yes absolutely.
I mean our backlog today is $20 billion in international backlog at the end of 2014 and thats a significant backlog for us.
The quality and maturity of the portfolio and that we are selling around the world is going to continue to have a demand.
And as you probably know what we talked about and I think I even said it in my remarks over half of the orders on the F-35 are going to be the international customers in the next 5 years.
So that program alone is going to continue to grow.
Earlier in my comments about missile defense continued strong demand from missile defense.
And we expect countries besides the countries that are program of record on the F-35 there are going to be others that are going to need to retire their fourth generation aircraft so we expect other countries to want to procure the F-35.
Airlift C-130s and 72 countries and the Js is going to continue to be in demand as some of those countries upgrade their airlift capability to the J.
So I would say that we are going to continue to be on a path to get to 25% over the next few years and at the same time as budgets recover and defense will continue to sell within the U.S.
So I think both elements of our portfolio will continue to rise.
But I do expect just given the backlog and given the opportunities that we have on the international front that we will achieve the 25%.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Doug.
I wanted to go back to IS&amp;GS and I know that you have been getting more international orders so your backlog has a larger international component and you talked about the issue you had with this one contract could you describe the kinds of international orders you have been winning are these  do these tend to be fixed price in nature which in theory could give you some upside in margin but also expose you to potentially more risk I am just interested in so how large international is becoming an IS&amp;GS and what the opportunity and the potential risk might be there? And so Doug let me try to give you a little color to that.
So the international content and IS&amp;GS is growing not leaps and bounds but its growing from a fairly small beginning I will say toward now I am just thinking of top of my head is probably in the maybe 10% maybe a little less than that something like 7% or 10% or so of the sales of IS&amp;GS maybe a little less than that even is what our international content is.
But think of that as much higher than it was say 3 years or 4 years ago so that part of the business is growing.
Almost all thinking that there is an exception to that but I will say almost all the international work that we are doing not just in IS&amp;GS but around the whole company is in fact from fixed price efforts so there is both upside and downside risk associated with doing that which I think a lot of this is sort of doing IT work for us thats what we are doing in Australia is not dissimilar than what we are doing with the Pentagon here in the United States sort of aggregating a lot of the systems and making those systems doing upgrades making those systems perform better and doing the overall system development work for all the IT services for  in this case the Ministry of Defense or Department of Defense in Australia.
We do a lot of cyber work internationally.
We are getting  thats a growing portion of the business as the next one that we are very happy to work.
I think our reputation is spreading sort of across the globe as we do work for individual countries and in some cases individual firms within those countries that sort of gets word-of-mouth sales that happen elsewhere.
We also do internationally within IS&amp;GS a lot of airport management or air traffic management type activities so the things that we do with our FAA business in the United States think of that is doing it elsewhere but also a lot of  sort of productivity sorts of things from an airport perspective internationally.
So thats probably the three big pieces.
Well I should say there is also a little bit of Intel piece similar  not dissimilar again to what we do with our Intel customers in the United States.
So probably those four pieces Doug you should think of us what we are doing internationally within IS&amp;GS and that portion is growing pretty significantly for us from again a fairly modest start a few years ago to where it is today.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Hey good morning all.
Good morning.
Just a quick clarification on that Bruce with that being 7% to 10% and Marillyns comment earlier about less than $500 million it would make that seem like thats probably the largest program in IS&amp;GS on the international side is that correct? Yes.
Its - I dont know but it is the largest Carter.
But it's one of the largest that we have one of probably a couple of that  for that size.
And I was looking at some data here I think the actual number is slightly less than 10% for IS&amp;GS a little more specificity than I gave Doug on the previous question.
Great.
And on the aerospace margin front you teed up on the prior call and during the quarter some potential upside you had talked about 100 basis points on the F-35 development contract.
And once that sort of got  the delays from last year worked their way through and also on the C-5 even excluding the over and aboves and I wondered you highlighted the small amount of risk retirements on F-35 but I wondered if you could just give an update on the progress on both of those? Yes.
So probably I want to correct something I think I heard that you say we werent talking about development program increases we were talking about production improvement.
Production correct.
Sorry.
So what you saw in the first quarter and what we disclosed in earnings release was one of those risk retirements that we were expecting to happen thats actually probably one of the larger ones that will happen throughout the rest of the year at least this planning wise thats one of the reasons why the margins in the first quarter were in fact higher than what we expect for the rest of the year.
So I think thats tracking to what I said earlier and what I had talked about the potential 100 basis point improvement in the production program year-over-year from 14 to 15 I still think is doable and on track as we sit here today.
C-5 we talked about that program in the past about the potential for a step up over time.
I still think thats the path that we are looking at doing in the latter part of the year.
And again as you alluded to and I will make the comment none of those considers the potential for some entitlement actions that we have relative to the over and above work that would be separate and distinct from this.
This is just sort of recognizing that we are doing a better job of sort of turning out the aircraft in the short-term cycles and the like that are resulting in better performance on that contract for us.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Great.
Thanks and good morning.
The question I had was on space and in particular the margin performance you had in the first quarter and I think you have about $125 million of headwind on ULA for the rest of the year so I get that but it does look like certainly the risk retirements at Orion and the government side and probably across the portfolio are better than we have seen in a while.
So I am just curious usually good things follow good things was there a certain risk retirement related to Orion and government programs? Were you reaching kind of critical milestones or is Space just looking like its probably going to be a source of continued upside for the rest of the year? Thanks.
Yes so good question Myles you should think of Space Systems as having a couple of risk retirements that happened in the first quarter.
One of them was associated with the Orion vehicle.
This was actually associated with the launch we did last year as we sort of finalized the results of that in the first quarter of this year.
We kind of trued up our booking position if you will for that event and that resulted in a step up associated with that event that will not repeat itself obviously in the next three quarters.
We also had some  a couple of one-offs in the quarter for things like some reliability incentives that we had at least one of the contracts within Space Systems if not another one.
And that just happened to fall in the first quarter if you will.
So we have got a pretty good increase associated with that reliability incentives and that also reflected part of the effort this quarter that wont happen going forward.
I will also remind you that as you said the latter three quarters of the year we have the ULA totally different profile than what we have had last quarter.
And again as I made comments earlier much lower equity earnings going forward as compared to the first quarter.
I will also remind you though that we do have whats left as sort of the restructuring costs that are not  that have not been taken but are reflected in our operating performance and those will continue to happen in the next three quarters without the benefit of the step-ups that we took in the first quarter.
So combined I know there is a lot of moving pieces I just gave you there but combined is thats why we look at the margins doing what they do in the next three quarters for Space Systems.
What I will say though is Space Systems is performing very very well right now.
And so I look at that and say there is the potential for opportunity as we go forward every year we do have opportunity and we are performing very very well on our government contracts and Space Systems.
There is a lot of incentive-based contracts there where if we do well we obviously get the margins associated with that but the government gets flipside of those incentive contracts as well.
And so we are performing very well there.
And I think we have some potential to do even better going forward.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Rob Stallard from RBC.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Rob.
Bruce I was wondering  just quick question on the book-to-bill.
I was wondering if you could comment on the various trends that you are seeing there particularly down the short cycle side and when we might see some improvement in perhaps the IS&amp;GS book-to-bill through this year? Yes.
So Rob maybe I will just give you  I thought that there might be a question on orders so maybe I will just give you sort of a little bit of a full overview of where we sit from orders perspective.
Sort of it it has been our history at least the last few years we are going to be significantly back-end weighted in our orders for the year.
And as we sit here today it wouldnt surprise me if there is probably 65% or so of the orders that we are expecting to have for the year will actually materialize in the second half of the year.
And you should think about  we have got quite a few big ticket items to sort of keep your eye on so we have got the bomber awards some time in the summer of this year.
We have got finalization of the C-130J multiyear.
We have got the next production lot Lot 9 of the F-35 program occurring.
And with that  and its just a lot of contracts but they add up to a lot of dollars individually  or collectively they add up to a lot of dollars just a whole lot the various F-35 sustainment contracts and long lead contracts for future LRIPs.
And you combine that with a lot of the international orders we are looking at for THAAD and PAC-3 for instance and you see there is some pretty big chunky sized orders coming in the next three months but more weighted with second half of the year.
I didnt mention JLTV but thats obviously another critical strategic win.
So the big strategic items we are looking for from a competitive perspective this year are the bomber award and JLTV.
To your specific question on IS&amp;GS I think we are going to  last year we actually grew backlog in IS&amp;GS which was the first time we have done that for a while.
As we look forward I think the IS&amp;GS orders are probably sequentially going to grow and get close to the sales value but probably not as much as the sales for the year so we will probably have some reduction in our backlog in IS&amp;GS as we close the year.
In part because we did recall we did get so many orders in 2014 that were sort of multi-year orders that wont be replicated if you will in 2015.
Just  and maybe one last comment we still think as we sit here today and we said this for a couple of years in a row we do think we are on a track to get back similar to where we started at the end of last year about $80 plus million level for total backlog for the corporation.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Bruce I was wondering if you could talk a little more you talked about the phasing just now of the orders you have done it on the cash flow can you talk a little bit about maybe the earnings as we go through the year.
And then also the buyback activity should it be fairly ratable at this $600 million and related to that you mentioned the options exercise is there a point where we start to see the share count really move down when we get to the other side of those options is that this year? Yes.
Of course we will try to hit all of those for you Sam.
So overall margins I think we had a bit of a spike probably not unlike what we did last year frankly as the corporation I think we came down from a pretty high first quarter and we dropped the next 3 quarters.
A lot of thats just the phasing and timing of when we get some of our awards and some of our incentives on our contracts across all of the business areas.
So I would expect margins would be probably lower over the next three quarters.
I think the second and third quarters will probably be similar to each other whereas the fourth we could have a little bit higher margin.
So thinking of the second and third probably running in the low-11s and maybe as we sit here today with the timing of our risk retirements the fourth quarter could actually be in sort of the high-11s going forward thats sort of how we see it as we sit here today.
And again as I said on an earlier comment if we pull some of those to the left or do them or do higher adjustments than we had in our plan obviously we could get better than that or worse than that.
So repo second part of your question the repo activity we did $600 million in the first quarter.
We would expect to do more in the second quarter.
If I was to predict I would say its going to be maybe not twice as much as we did in the first quarter but it wouldnt surprise me if we did as much as $1 billion or so in the second quarter and then I think we will trail off maybe a little bit in the third and fourth thats as we sit here today.
And a lot of thats based on sort of the cash that was available on the balance sheet in the first quarter versus what we have got after the debt issuance in February that enables us to do that that sort of enhanced repos for the rest of the year.
There are about 900 000 options that were exercised in the first quarter.
We started the year with about a little more than 6 million options outstanding.
As I said earlier in the prepared remarks we were expecting options actually to have a higher level of exercising than we experienced in the first quarter.
So we are watching that closely and last year I think we did 3.7 million or 3.4 million shares thats we are kind of expecting in our guidance right now about 3 million for the year so that will be the toggle switch as to whether or not we do higher or lower than that.
The last thing I will say on that on the option exercise is you asked the question about would we expect to see sort of a step function decrease.
And I think the answer is yes to that.
Sam as soon as the options have been exercised there are no options replenishing those if you will so this is a diminishing number in our dilution equation that once those 5 million options are left or exercised they will not be replicated by a like number of options going forward.
So in the way I usually like to describe it as every single dollar of share repurchase spent once we are at that point where we no longer have options we will have a greater chance of actually reducing the share count of the corporation.
Karen I think we have got time for one more question.
Certainly.
Our final question for today comes from the line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Yes good morning.
Good morning.
Marillyn I just wanted to ask your strategy in the cyber world you obviously saw Raytheon make a big acquisition yesterday in the commercial cyber world.
You are a big player in this area if you can just kind of lay out what your strategy is? Sure.
I will be happy to.
I mean it is an important area for us as a company.
For the past 20 years consecutively we have been the largest IT provider for the U.S.
government and working for all of the cabinet agencies on a range of IT as well as cyber security.
I like the portfolio that we have around cyber security.
We have a multi-decade track record with encryption with data security solutions.
And we centralized all of our cyber security in the IS&amp;GS organization.
And so and our go-to-market strategy both within the U.S.
government as well as commercial thats where we are moving forward.
We see incremental growth there and we rolled out and even internationally as Bruce commented earlier we have a cyber security intelligence center in Farnborough in the UK.
We have another one in Canberra Australia.
We have our own here in the U.S.
So it is absolutely an important growth area for us.
And I think whats key to us is that we have been doing cyber security long before they ever coined the term cyber security.
So its a very important growth area for us and one that we expect to continue to excel in.
I think that wraps it up for the time.
Let me turn it over to Marillyn for final comments.
Well let me just conclude today I just want to reiterate that the corporation has had another solid quarter and its well positioned to deliver even higher value to customers and stockholders in 2015.
The ongoing execution of our employees coupled with our growing cash generation our strong backlog of work and a solid balance sheet will continue to prevail our corporation forward in 2015 and beyond.
So thanks again for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you in the next earnings call in July.
Karen that concludes our call today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in todays conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Good day and welcome everyone to the Lockheed Martin portfolio shaping actions and second quarter 2015 earnings results conference call.
Todays call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Abigail and good morning.
I would like to welcome everyone to our second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Marillyn Hewson our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Statements made in todays call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see todays press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
I would also note that we are extending the call duration till 12:30 today to enable adequate time for your questions on our financial results and strategic actions.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Marillyn.
Thanks Jerry.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for adjusting your calendars and joining us on the call today.
Its a day earlier than planned so its especially given the short notice we appreciate you joining us.
With todays press release outlining two strategic actions we are implementing to strengthen our competitive posture and position the corporation for profitable long term growth we accelerated the call to enable timely discussion of our second quarter financial results and the portfolio shaping items.
Starting with our financial performance we had a strong quarter operationally and financially with all reported results exceeding our expectations and we are progressing on achievement of full year financial objective.
These results reflect the execution being achieved across the businesses as the Corporation operated at a very strong level in providing critical solutions to customers while returning value to stockholders.
The year-to-date financial performance also enabled us to again increase full year 2015 guidance for segment and consolidated operating profit and earnings per share.
In addition to these increases to guidance we reaffirmed our earlier outlook for full year orders sales and cash from operations.
With these strong financial results we continued to return value to stockholders in the areas of share repurchases and dividend repayments through cash deployment initiatives.
I would now like to discuss the two strategic actions we announced today and then Ill ask Bruce to cover in more detail our second quarter financial results and increased 2015 guidance.
To assist our discussion I would ask you to turn your attention to the charts we provided on our website.
Starting on Chart 4  reshaping our portfolio.
The first strategic action we announced is our signing of a definitive agreement to purchase Sikorsky Aircraft.
Sikorsky is a natural fit for Lockheed Martin and it complements our broad portfolio of world-class aerospace and defense products and technologies.
This action will enable us to extend our core business into the $30 billion annual military and commercial rotary wing segment.
The second major action is the commencement of a strategic review of our government IT infrastructure services work at Information Systems &amp; Global Solutions and of our technical services work at Missiles and Fire Control.
The strategic review will address the changing market dynamics affecting these businesses and will help us determine how to best position them for future growth and is expected to result in a spinoff or sale of the businesses.
These actions continue our practice of continuously shaping the portfolio to secure the highest value creation for customers and stockholders.
Turning to an overview of Sikorsky on Chart 5.
Sikorsky is well known as a world leader in the design manufacture and support of military and commercial helicopters.
Their international presence is wide-ranging with operations in 20 countries and their products are used in over 40 countries.
Sikorskys revenue composition is shown on the pie chart with approximately 75% of their work for military customers and the remaining 25% to commercial users.
With approximately 50% of their annual revenue derived from international customers they will aid us in moving forward on our goal to expand international revenues.
The acquisition rationale is outlined on Chart 6.
Some of the important strategic benefits of this acquisition are that Sikorsky has familiar customers.
This familiarity will assist the integration process through utilization of similar knowledge and interaction with common customers.
They are also extraordinarily well-positioned with an established brand and a robust backlog of future work.
They also have a 40-year history as a frequent teammate of our mission systems and training business area and today we collaborate on the VH-92 Presidential helicopter combat rescue helicopter and the Naval MH-60 Romeo helicopter.
Their strong aftermarket business is also expected to provide a long-term source of earnings to the Corporation and another lever of value creation.
The opportunity to access capital in todays historically low interest rate environment is another significant contributor to the rationale and value creation of the acquisition.
Beyond the strategic benefits I outlined another key element of the acquisition rationale is the Section 338(h)(10) tax election for the transaction which is expected to provide approximately $2 billion in net present value for our Corporation and stockholders.
Future growth prospects of the acquisition are outlined on Chart 7.
One of the key elements of our strategic planning is to secure and extend our core defense business and we feel confident that the addition of Sikorsky will contribute significantly to the growth objective.
As the prime contractor for multiple current development helicopter programs such as the CH-53K Presidential and Combat Rescue Sikorsky is well-positioned to grow as these programs transition into production scheduled in 2018.
With their extensive presence around the world in over 40 countries we see further expansion of our international operations as we will benefit from their international footprint and customer relationships.
Sikorskys footprint in the commercial aviation segment is well-established with the extensive activities supporting the oil and gas industry.
While this segment has been under recent pressure due to low oil prices it is expected to recover in the future and add value to the Corporation.
We believe these current pressures enable us to make this acquisition at a low point in the economic cycle.
All of these elements indicate significant opportunities for growth in the future and value creation potential.
Id now like to outline the transaction valuation on Chart 8.
The agreement announced today outlined the purchase price of $9 billion and will be funded with a combination of new debt and available cash.
It is important to note that our joint election of the 338(h)(10) tax benefit effectively brings the adjusted price of the transaction to slightly over $7 billion with an adjustment multiple of 10.3 times EBITDA.
These metrics demonstrate that we are purchasing an active participant in one of the largest areas of DoD expenditures at an attractive price.
I also want to reiterate that this transaction will not change our previously outlined plan to return cash to shareholders through dividends and stock repurchases between 2015 and 2017 and reducing our outstanding share count to below 300 million shares by the end of 2017.
An overview of synergy is shown on Chart 9.
While there are multiple elements of synergy that we have identified from this transaction the largest contribution will be from the approximately $2 billion that we will recognize through the election of the Section 338(h)(10) tax treatment.
In the area of cost synergies we expect to achieve a steady-state level of around $150 million annually after integration actions are completed.
In the area of revenue synergy we see multiple opportunities by leveraging our relationships with international governments and our ability to match their security needs with a full spectrum of our security offerings.
Sikorskys products and capabilities will aid to our existing portfolio and enable us to offer an ever broader range of solutions to international customers.
Before leaving Sikorsky I also want to offer some additional perspectives on our new team members.
We have similar cultures.
We have a shared passion for innovation and a commitment to supporting the men and women who defend their freedom.
Together we will offer stronger portfolio of helicopter and systems engineering solutions to our global customers as we accelerate the pace of new technology.
At the same time our commitment to bring the best we have to offer to our work with our helicopter manufacturers is absolutely -- with other helicopter manufacturers is absolutely undiminished.
I'm confident that Sikorsky will be an excellent fit within our mission systems and training business area and a strong contributor to the Corporation as we move forward together.
I will now turn to Chart 10 and speak to the second portfolio action we outlined today.
The strategic review of IT and services work in our IS&amp;GS and MFC business areas.
Let me start by saying that we have a proud legacy as a world leading government IT services and technical services provider.
However market dynamics and trends led us to believe that these businesses may potentially achieve greater growth which is good for our employees and create more value for our customers and stockholders by operating outside of Lockheed Martin.
The metrics shown outlines the businesses within IS&amp;GS and MFC that comprise the strategic review as well as those that will be realigned under other existing business areas.
For your reference the businesses under strategic review are expected to generate approximately $6 billion in annual revenue this year with mid-7% margin.
With the series of recent wins the businesses under strategic review are well-positioned to generate value under an expected spinoff or sale.
As I summarize todays announcements on Chart 11 Id like to conclude by reiterating that the two strategic actions we announced today represent powerful portfolio reshaping activities and provide strong opportunity for creating long-term to shareholders.
We believe there are opportunities for significant synergies and are confident that the risk of execution is low.
Both of todays actions will further position the Corporation for growth and value creation for investors and customers.
Ill now ask Bruce to go through our second-quarter financial performance and our increased 2015 guidance and then well open up the line for questions.
Thanks Marillyn.
Good morning everyone.
I will try to keep my remarks brief this morning so as to allow more time for questions during our session and my remarks relate to web charts addressing just the financial results for the quarter.
Beginning with Chart 14 we have an overview of our second-quarter results.
Sales for the quarter were $11.6 billion and were ahead of our expectations.
We will provide more color on our sales results on the next chart.
Our segment operating margin was also better-than-expected in the quarter at 12% and enabled us to achieve earnings-per-share of $2.94.
We generated $1.3 billion in cash from operations again a little better-than-expected and we will also discuss this further in a few charts.
Our cash deployment actions increased over the first quarter with $1.4 billion of cash returned to shareholders including nearly 5 million shares repurchased for more than $900 million.
And with our strong operational performance we are increasing your full year outlook for both operating profit and earnings-per-share.
So we feel good about how we ended the first half of the year and that positions us well for the remainder of the year.
On Chart 15 we compare our second-quarter sales results for 2015 with our results in 2014.
Sales are higher by about 3% compared with the second quarter of last year and while most of the higher volume in the quarter was due to earlier than planned deliveries we will be watching this closely over the next few months to see if the higher trend continues.
Chart 16 compares our segment operating margin this quarter with the second quarter of 2014.
Segment operating margin was 40 basis points lower this quarter compared with the same period last year but as I said earlier this was higher than we had planned for the quarter and enabled us to increase our margin outlook for the year.
Mission systems and training drove the higher-than-expected results with margin improving 250 basis points over the second quarter of last year.
Better performance this year combined with the absence of performance issues last year led to this improvement.
Turning to Chart 17 we will compare our earnings-per-share results this quarter with our result from a year ago.
Our EPS of $2.94 was 7% higher than the results from last year and enabled us to increase our EPS for the year.
Chart 18 provides details into share repurchase activity during the quarter.
As we previously mentioned we had significantly higher share repurchases in the quarter compared with the same period last year with $937 million spent.
More importantly were $300 million ahead of the year-to-date amount from a year ago and have reduced shares outstanding by more than 5 million shares and we are well on our way to achieving or exceeding the $2 billion repurchase target we established at the beginning of the year.
On Chart 19 we discuss our total cash return to stockholders for both the quarter and year-to-date with a $1.4 billion in cash returned to stockholders in the second quarter we returned just over $2.5 billion on a year-to-date basis and in both the quarter and year-to-date we returned 131% of free cash flow to our stockholders.
On Chart 20 we provide our updated outlook for the year.
We are leaving both orders and sales unchanged at this time.
About 65% of our orders are planned for the second half of the year and while we think there is upside potential in our sales for the second half of the year we will have a much better feel for both of these metrics when we get to the third quarter call.
We are increasing our segment operating profit by $75 million due to our strong performance through the first half of the year and as a result of our increasing profit we are also increasing our earnings-per-share guidance by $0.15 to a new outlook of between $11 and $11.30 per share.
Finally we are keeping our cash from operations guidance unchanged.
We mentioned last quarter that our cash would be significantly weighted for the second half of the year and while that is still the case our stronger second-quarter results have reduced that difference between the first and second half of the year.
On Chart 21 we have our sales outlook by business area.
Again no change in our outlook at this time.
Chart 22 shows our outlook for segment operating profit.
We have a higher profit outlook in two of our business areas this quarter increasing Space Systems by $45 million and Mission Systems and Training by $30 million resulting in the total outlook increase of $75 million.
Finally Chart 23 provides our summary of the quarter.
We had a good quarter building upon our results from the first quarter and positioning us well as we look forward to the rest of the year.
Our cash deployment actions accelerated in the quarter and we remain committed to the actions we discussed earlier this year.
Our program execution was very good in the quarter and we look forward to adding to our portfolio with some strategic wins in the second half of the year.
And last but certainly not least our decisions to acquire Sikorsky Aircraft and conduct a strategic review of our government IT and technical services business makes this quarter strong from both the tactical and strategic perspective.
And with that we are ready for your questions.
Abigail? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Bruce can you just give us  potentially give us some more metrics that you are thinking about around Sikorsky potential leverage that you see the deleveraging and then how youre thinking about intangible amortization and accretion from the deal as you look out? Yeah sure David.
So as we look to finance this deal as Marillyn said we expect to use some cash off the balance sheet but also obviously the vast majority of it in the form of debt.
Currently we are thinking that looks somewhere around $1 billion off of the balance sheet in terms of cash use and $8 billion worth of debt.
We think just from sort of -- just to give you a lot of metrics maybe at once here.
We think that the debt -- the average coupon for the multiple maturities that we would do including potentially a little bit of commercial paper in the mix would be about a 3.5% coupon.
So you should think of that as somewhere in the order of $280-ish million a year of interest and on an aftertax basis something like $180 million a year rounding.
Intangible amortization I think was your other question.
As we look at this right now were probably looking at about $3.5 billion worth of intangible costs think of that as sort of trade name customer relationships as the biggest drivers of that intangible level and that would equate to about $250 million of expense a year.
So again think of the $180 million after-tax interest intangible amortization around $215 million a year.
Then on the positive side obviously the 338(h)(10) as Marillyn said almost $2 billion worth of present value you should think of that as being about $450 million a year sort of tax deduction associated with the step-up in assets that equates to about $160 million a year benefit going forward.
And then as Marillyn said also were expecting somewhere in a steady-state run rate of about $150 million a year in additional earnings.
So if you add all those up together a lot of moving pieces there I realize that your final question was sort of accretion and when does that happen.
So our intent is to integrate this business as quickly as possible.
Marillyn said we expect to close somewhere in the end of 2016 or excuse me end of 2015 early 2016.
So we would expect to have the integration cost spent in large part in 2016.
We want to get the integration done as quickly as possible in order to generate the synergies that come from that.
So we would be GAAP dilutive if you will in 2016.
We expect to be marginally GAAP accretive from an earnings perspective starting in 2017 and then to grow from that point forward.
Just one maybe last comment on the  thats okay.
I will leave it there and see if there is another question on it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Harned with Bernstein.
Its Finbar Sheehy for Doug.
Turning to the other side of your strategic announcement this morning on the services and IT businesses can you talk a little more about the criteria youll use to decide which ones you will keep and which ones you will divest? And as you talk about that you mentioned that you have the opportunity to acquire Sikorsky at the bottom of the cycle and some of these IT and services businesses have been hurt by the budget controlled active sequestration.
So how do you avoid if you like divesting these businesses at the bottom of their market? So just to speak to the portfolio the way that weve gone at weve been looking at our IT infrastructure services and technical services business for some time now and then quite a bit of analysis trying inside the Corporation to figure out how we can make it as competitive as we can.
As you know there is a lot more competitors that have come into the marketplace and our customers priorities are changing in what they're looking at more  theyre much more price-sensitive and so the elements of our business predominantly will be in the work that we're doing for civil agencies IT-infrastructure type services.
Well if you can think about enterprise IT services that are done for various agencies that is the type of work that we fall into this and then the technical services work that has been our Missiles and Fire Control business.
In terms of -- we certainly want to create value through this process.
So what we believe is if we move it out from under the business structure in Lockheed Martin that will allow us to thrive and grow will allow us to have a business structure that allows it to thrive and grow and so we are willing to separate those businesses to create that value going forward.
We think it's a very strong business we have a strong legacy of being the top IT provider for the US government for the past 21 years and this is a business that has strong performance and strong programs and weve had some recent wins this year and weve had some acquisitions in that business.
So we think what we have is a premier asset and we think if we can stand it up as a standalone company or if its attractive to buyout when we can get the right price for it thats the best for that business to go forward.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Richard Safran with Buckingham Research.
Marillyn Bruce I wanted to know if you think you could be a better owner and operator of Sikorsky than United Technologies was.
If possible I'd like to know on how you might be looking at operating the business differently than UTX did how you might think that might be a benefit? Well I will start out first and then Bruce you can add to my comments.
I think if you look at what is our core business our core business is doing business with governments and its platform and systems integration.
So that is the predominance of our business and I think in that sense bringing Sikorsky into our business is just a natural fit for us and its ability for us to bring or strengthen and running programs and government contracting and all of that expertise through the Sikorsky business.
We also look forward to the opportunity to create value on the international side of our business from their footprint that they have around the world and the work that they're doing in a number of countries.
So I think if you look at the potential synergies we do think we are an excellent owner and a better owner for this business because not only do we bring our expertise theyre bringing in their footprint and their capability around the world has value that we can create as well.
Bruce do you want to add some  Just a thought Rich so in terms of adding value greater than the parent this is a business thats been successful for however long its been in business 90 something plus years.
So they obviously are a national icon in terms of the capabilities that they bring to the rotary marketplace.
So they do a lot of things well already.
Where I think we can create value I mean first off we think this deal has pretty low execution risk from us.
I mean Id like to think of this as were buying a portfolio of programs versus sort of a new business model and new marketplaces and new customers that we've never dealt with before.
This is all very very familiar with us and Id like to think of this as having sort of a power and backing of a $45 million business focused on government contracting versus one which was less focused perhaps in total than just on the piece of the Sikorsky business.
I do think there are areas we can improve the business particularly on the contracting side and maybe the focus a little bit on the cash flow side.
I think in particular the international sales market is an interesting one for us where we  through the combination of our portfolios coming in having a discussion about the security needs of our international customers whether its F-35 Littoral Combat Ships now Sikorsky helicopters is a much much more powerful discussion than what I believe the current parent could have in terms of bundling products and services together to go into the international marketplace.
So I think all of those really add to our ability to help us better position this business going forward.
Were happy to have this business.
We think it fits well into our portfolio and this is what we do and this is our core knitting.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Marillyn have you had a chance to get initial feedback from the DoD in the proposed acquisition particularly as it applies to broader consolidation in the industrial base realizing the Army is not a huge customer proportionally to Lockheed Martin maybe thats not as much but at the DoD there may be some issue? Well as we would do on any acquisition we contacted our customers.
So I got an opportunity to speak with senior levels in the Department of Defense and have offered to them to provide whatever additional information they needed they assessed it.
They have been consistent through any acquisition of this type to say that they will assess and ask their questions and give it a detailed review and so we stand ready to support them through that process.
I do think if you look at this acquisition we are not reducing the number of competitors at all in this segment in the helicopter segment.
And so in that sense  there shouldnt be a concern and our portfolio is very complementary.
There is very little overlap between our two portfolios.
So in that sense that I will expect that that would not be a concern of theirs going forward.
In terms of the services business there are many many competitors out in the IT services arena.
So the fact that we are trying to position this business where it can be more competitive in that arena I think they would view this positively.
So between those two elements its very positive.
The other thing that our view is -- there's some concern about consolidation making one entity bigger than another when you look at these two strategic actions that were taking UTC has reported that they see the sales for Sikorsky to be $6.5 billion this year in 2015 and the piece of business that we are looking at during a strategic review to spin or sell was about $6 billion.
So we may find at the end of the day that we are roughly the same size maybe even a little smaller maybe a little bigger but basically roughly the same size with both of these strategic actions.
So I dont think there is more concentration at Lockheed Martin in that sense.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Rob Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Just two quick clarification questions.
One on what Marillyn just spoke of but with regard to the strategic evaluation at IT the question there is youre talking about this as a single $6 billion business or at least thats my interpretation.
Bt might you consider doing different things with different pieces selling some and spinning the other? And then for Bruce is the $150 million in synergies net of things like profit on profit? So to your question first of all this could be  there is a number of possible scenarios.
Thats why we want to go through this process between now and the end of the year to really give a strategic review on what is the best option -- strategic options for these elements of the business.
To your point it could result in one or more transactions and our key is how do we deliver more value to our customers how do we deliver more value to our shareholders through this process.
The strategic review has got to determine what the ultimate outcome and it could be more than one transactions.
Rob the second part of your question $150 million steady state going forward that is considered to be net of fee on fee or profit on profit if you will just to give you  not to confuse your perhaps but just to give you some insight.
The level of sales that we see the overlap that would need to be adjusted out if you will once Sikorsky becomes part of the portfolio for our business thats being conducted within mission systems and training.
You should think of that being about $150 million a year.
I mean there is obviously price business right now that carries on for some period of time for things like our work on the combat rescue helicopter or the Presidential helicopter that wouldnt have a negative profit impact in the near-term but we eliminate the sales obviously of that going forward.
And then so sneak  think of them when we get to the steady state that is net if you will of that consideration of fee on fee.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
Congrats guys on some bold moves.
Guys how do you think about the strategic fit of Sikorskys commercial helicopter business? Well I think for us its a nice bid in the sense that as I mentioned in my remarks at the outset its predominantly in the oil and gas side which is not an area that we are in.
And while weve got some near-term pressure there just because of whats happened with oil prices we see an opportunity in a few years for that to turn and so real opportunity for growth there as we move forward.
And then the other side would be -- on the commercial side would be on the sustainment.
There is commercial aircraft that are already in the base among these 40 countries that I mentioned have to be maintained and sustained so thats a good strong healthy business.
When you look at it from a Lockheed Martin standpoint I mean we sell our products and services to heads of countries so they buy both military and commercial platforms and systems and sustainment activities so I think that that is a nice fit where we bring all of that together in our customer relationships around the world.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Yes Bruce I just want a little more clarification.
You have commented about Sikorsky.
So you're saying in terms of the profit on profit that you're going to be getting for the programs as if youre subcontractor to Sikorsky that's about $150 million currently or that's what it's going to be? No George that was revenue.
Profits are a much much smaller number.
Okay.
And that's because a lot of their programs that you're a subcontracted to really haven't started to ramp up yet.
Thats correct George but I will tell you the absolute dollars on our side dont deviate a whole lot from that number for the work that we are doing today and for the near future.
And then similar subject Bruce how much subcontract work do you do for other helicopter manufacturers that might be at risk since they may not want to deal with a competitor? So we do quite a bit of work George actually as we sell direct to the US government a lot of the work is not directly to the helo manufacturer themselves.
So a lot of our integration activities is actually done direct to the government as opposed to direct to the other helo manufacturers if you will.
We have relationships with everyone domestically and internationally in the helo marketplace.
Our intention is to maintain those relationships going forward That's something that we would obviously have to consider relative to our discussions with the DoD as far as going forward this incorporation of the business and thats something that we would intend to do just out of a pure economics perfect nothing else but thats just right thing for us to do going forward.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Hi thank you.
I'm going to turn to the boring things of talking about the business for a moment Marillyn.
You had a couple of nice positive developments in terms of operations.
Were there some things that you could address both in space and frankly in aircraft that either you brought to bear to change the profit trajectory? Well this is B2 our major program BF-35 weve made really good progress over the past quarter on that program.
I had the opportunity to attend the CEO conference in Norway for the F-35 program we are all international partners participate in that secretary candle and we have strong support for the program itself and the fact that secretary kindle after that to discuss a potential block buy for the program which would be for at least 450 to maybe 500 aircraft in FY8 FY120 we are the strong statement about the tortoise of the game and the outlook for the program forward.
If you think on that if you been tracking the performance in program toward the marine corps initial operating capability the marines have finished their operationally readiness they are now in the midst of their assessment of their operational readiness and is on track.
They appear to be on track to announce their IOC this month and we look forward to that.
Thats a huge milestone this program  there is first service to come to declare that aircraft combat ready I think send a strong message to everyone that this program is on track.
We delivered 11 aircraft in the second quarter were on track to deliver 45 in 2015 and weve gotten long lead for LRIP 10 so thats for 94 aircraft.
So program is ramping up in that sense.
I think its well supported in a budget proposals that are out there.
So in that sense production is ramping up software completion and all those things are on track and so thats what I would say on the 35.
You mentioned the space program I mean they are performing well on our government satellites and NEOs for example just launch the third NEO satellite and that program is moving forward and then youve seen the reports out that we have put forward a more cost effectives approach going forward and was greatly embraced by US government on diversions.
So we will continue our path along them.
And then in the missile defense arena I hope you saw that Germany has announced their intent to  they selected MEADS for their air defense system and thats truly a strategic win for us.
I mean legacy systems are aging and they need replacement they went through a very thorough assessment of what system would best fit their needs and they selected MEADS and I think it sets the tone for other countries we will be looking at this important selection by Germany and we expect other countries to look at MEADS as their choice for the most modern and most capable missile defense system for their countries.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Joseph DeNardi with Stifel.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
Bruce I'm wondering if you could talk about -- I guess it may be tough to talk about -- but the proceeds from the spin or the sale at this point is that additive to your capital deployment plans or should we think about that as going towards the balance sheet? So you are right it is hard to predict I mean those are obviously two completely different scenarios in terms of the cash that we would receive from that versus spin versus a sale.
Spin obviously being a lot less weve got a fairly low tax basis in that business at least as we look at it not unlike what UTC was probably looking with Sikorsky now youve got a low tax basis so your ability to get cash out on the spin basis is limited from a tax free basis  or tax free perspective to what that is in terms of the tax-free dividend.
So we get a lot more cash back from a sale perspective.
I hate to speculate what that could be and we will get into further detail as we get into the latter part of this year and early part of next year as far as when we sort of close on our decision as to which path we go down.
I would suspect in terms of cash deployment the near term cash deployment would probably be paying off some of that I mentioned as far as some of the debt that we are doing to do the Sikorsky deal would likely come in the form of commercial paper.
Wed probably pay that off pretty frequently and bring debt down and then the rest Joseph we will wait and see what weve got and what needs we have at that time and as usual try to be opportunistic in all our cash deployment actions as we always are.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Arment with Sterne Agee CRT.
Yes thank you.
Congratulations Marillyn and Bruce.
I want a clarification.
Sikorsky will that be an independent segment or are you going to have it on a standalone basis or will it be folded in as part of aeronautics or one of the other segments? And then if you could also give us Bruce just regarding the quarter Marillyn mentioned that you're going to be delivering 45 F-35s this year.
Can you give us a run down or just kind of the planning for deliveries for this year and maybe a sneak peak on how that looks for next year? Thanks.
In terms of Sikorsky our intent is for that business to report directly into mission systems and training.
Thats our business where Dale Bennett is the executive vice president so he will be a director for a line of business in that business and we intend to maintain its name and its brand so we will preserve that brand identity we think it is very strong for Sikorsky and so we will continue forward with that.
So whether it will be Sikorsky or Lockheed Martin company we will report into mission systems and training.
Now our plan is to move forward.
Bruce? So Peter just talk about deliveries as you said 45 this year thats about what we are expecting to have for the year.
I think weve delivered 19 year to date basis so obviously that ramp rate picks up in the second half of the year.
Just going down the entire portfolio the C-130 again we talked in the past about that being a very steady build rate of about 24 aircraft a year.
We had 10 deliveries in the first half of the year which would obviously imply 14 in the second half.
Right now those are more weighted just for FYI purposes towards the fourth quarter than they are for the third quarter.
Id like to think there is some potential to move some of those aircraft into the third quarter although thats actually making our sales if we just were to profile our sales for the rest of the year it makes our fourth quarter look a little bit bigger than I think it actually is going to be as we sit here today.
C-5 deliveries we have expected about 9 for the year we had 5 on a year to date basis.
So 4 for the rest of the year unless we pull in one for next year and these aircraft are getting to be a very good pattern from a performance perspective.
We were actually earlier on the deliveries all throughout the first half of this year.
So we are going to be watching that but thats not within our current plan its not within our current guidance.
Next year I dont have the numbers off the top of my head Peter but definitely the aircraft deliveries on F-35 are going up.
I am sorry let me back up for a second.
I didnt talk F-16 I apologize.
F-16 11 12 aircraft in the year we did 6 in the first half of the year 5 6 in the second half.
So let me maybe start with the easy ones.
C-130J 24 next year F-16 similar levels of sales in terms of quantities next year.
F-35 greater than the 45 now I dont have that number off the top of my head but its a pretty good increase Peter from what Ive got in my memory there.
And then C-5s a very similar number to what we are seeing in 2015.
Hopefully that helps with the question now.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ron Epstein with BofA Merrill Lynch.
Hey good morning guys.
If you could just quickly go through if possible in a little more detail where you expect to pick up the $150 million of cost synergies.
Are you going to be moving facilities is it just back office take out? How are you thinking about that Bruce? So its a combination of probably all the things that you would think would happen in this sort of transaction.
So some of the bigger abilities to  so we believe get some long term synergies are in the supply chain particularly with the overlap of the procurement activities especially within our aeronautics business activities but also within MST as well in terms of systems overlap there.
So you should think of the synergies coming in the form of supply chain synergies a little bit of facilities perhaps rationalization and some headcount rationalization as you would expect as well.
And collectively that adds up to more than 150 we think the 150 is sort of what sticks to the bottom line after consideration of price business and disclosing under cost and pricing data on our government business.
The thing that interested me or that caught my attention when we looked at this business is more of it stays with us longer term I think because this probably has a longer tail of price business than I would have expected before we went into the diligence phase.
I mean about $16 billion worth of price business so obviously you get to keep it on that part of the business and also the commercial and the sustainment particularly on the supply chain savings the headcount savings and the like obviously those are less cost base driven in terms of pricing and more of the synergy you get from a cost side there stay for longer as well.
So thats how I think about those three buckets facilities supply chain headcount and for the reasons I just said they stay with us for longer than you might otherwise think.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Hunter Keay with Wolfe Research.
Thanks for taking my question.
As we think about the evolution of Lockheed here over the next 12 months how should we think about how IRAD will maybe move around a little bit getting rid of some of the short-cycle stuff and laying in Sikorsky already in a little bit of an upward trajectory year over year.
Should we think about maybe R&amp;D trending at or above the 2% of sales level once everything gets done with? So I will take that Hunter.
So its an interesting swap.
Marillyn talked earlier about a sort of big picture perspective where we are losing $6 billion worth of business on our IT tech services side which you should think of being much much much significantly lower IRAD intensive than the rest of the business and this I think speaks to the need for that business to have as cost efficient structure as is possible in order to survive in the environment that we are currently operating in there.
Sikorsky operates in a much more IRAD intensive environment but not unlike what the rest of the portfolio of Lockheed Martin looks like when you exclude the IS&amp;GS and the tech services piece.
So I can actually try to do some quick math myself Hunter I think we get close to 2% or so of R&amp;D when you kind of get to the new sales level of the combined company minus that which is spun or sold and you add in the IRAD for all the remaining businesses plus Sikorsky its actually probably a little bit north of 2%.
Thank you.
Our question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
Bruce you mentioned there was some franchise wins you were looking to achieve in the second half of this year.
I was wondering if you could give us an update on those and which ones you think your chance are best at.
Sure Rob.
So when I talked franchise wins in the second half of the year I am really talking the long range strike bomber and JLTV.
We are watching as are our partners I am certain Boeing watching very closely the expectation that that will probably be decided sometime in the August September timeframe.
We still like our offering there and we feel good about that.
Weve had lots of discussions I think we are good partners for each other we bring very very capable collaborative skill sets to the fray.
And so thats the first one that we are looking at Rob and again I think we like where we sit there.
JLTV is the other one.
JLTV is maybe in some peoples views a little bit tougher putt because they dont necessarily associate Lockheed Martin with being in the combat vehicle business but I think weve got a tremendous offering there.
And it would put us into a new segment within the DoD that we dont have a lot of business other than sort of putting some of our weapon systems on top of combat vehicle.
This would be actually building the contract of the combat vehicle itself.
So its sort of exciting to be able to have that opportunity.
Again we think weve got a great offering.
They look different in terms of the orders this year the bomber would be a bigger order initially the JLTV would be a much much smaller order initially in the current year.
Both of them have very long think of as decades long sort of production track once you get past the development side.
In terms of just sheer dollars that we are looking for not so much in the franchise wins that weve got big dollars associated with primarily two aeronautics programs that we are needing to close and definitize those contracts on finally the C-130J multi-year and 9 for the F-35 program both of those are big dollars in the second half of the year in terms of orders.
As I still sort of look out for the rest of the year even though we are light and I know there was an earlier question about where we are sort of in orders from a year to date basis but I still think we are marching towards about the $80 billion that we set at the start of the year given all the puts and takes we see going forward.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
Yes thank you and congratulations on the Sikorsky transaction.
So a question I was surprised that you only have 150 million of intercompany sales given your participation on the CRH Naval Hawk Presidential and combat and rescue.
So could you give us a sense as to where that number goes in the future and then maybe give us two sort of nitty questions on what the cash flow of Sikorsky looks like given they have a very heavy near term development mix and whether you expect to use contract liability amortization for accounting of the Canadian maritime helicopter? What a mouthful Cai.
You've got your money's worth to say the least.
So yes we're talking back to the $150 million of intercompany  its not quite intercompany yet.
I will remind you of that.
But that's primarily for the combat rescue helicopter and the Presidential helicopter.
That's about -- you shouldn't think of that as this is starting off low and it's going to grow to some larger number thats a fairly consistent number.
I'm trying to do this from recall but thats a consistent number going out every year not just the near-term but the long-term as well.
I think maybe where some of the confusion is on the MH 60 helo thats the Romeo work that we do there and there we sort of think of as co-primes on that.
We do not subcontract under Sikorsky for that work.
That is actually two prime contracts.
So that may be where some of the confusion is.
So think of this again as CRH and the Presidential helicopter are VXX related.
And those just aren't as large maybe as people think they are in terms of our size of the business there.
Cash flow for Sikorsky I think you hit it right.
I think at least for a couple of years you should think of them adding some inventory buildup.
And by the way I shouldn't get into disclosing going forward Sikorsky sales but what I'm expecting to see is inventory buildup some working capital buildup for some of the new programs that I just talked about both the combat rescue helicopter and the presidential helicopter.
I know they've also got a loss contract on the Canadian maritime helicopter contract which obviously can't be strong for cash flow.
So I wouldn't expect near-term cash to just knock our socks off.
I mean this is a long-term business we're not buying this business for the next three years we are buying this business for the next three decades in that very much the way that we look at in terms of a long-term acquisition cycle for us.
I think your last question was you asked about the accounting treatment on the Canadian helicopter.
We will go with the convention of Lockheed Martin I mean this will all get settled out in the conforming accounting in the purchase accounting adjustments and whatever loss we think is there will be reflected at the time of the acquisition and that will be reflected behind us if you will and essentially zero going forward from an accounting perspective.
Ill just add the structure that we have as I said we are going to integrate the Sikorsky business into mission systems and training that will be a standalone line of business and we like that model.
We like that kind of a co-prime model like we have on MH-60 Romeo as a good approach going forward.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo Securities.
I'm going to see if I can sneak two in also.
The first one is just Bruce can you talk about what the cost will be to extract that $150 million in savings especially in 2016? And then secondly on the IT side I just wanted to understand what's changed.
It seems like some of the areas like commercial cyber you were still making acquisitions last year.
You made healthcare IT Systems Made Simple acquisition late last year.
Is it have to do with Sikorsky that you are now looking at other parts of the portfolio or did something else change about the business that forces it now? So Sam let me try the first one.
And I may take a shot at the second one but Marillyn correct me later on.
So the cost to extract in 2016 if we close the deal at the end of this year obviously I'd like to think of the cost here as sort of transaction costs integration costs you've got the intangible amortization you got interest on net debt.
I think I've talked most of those but I haven't necessarily talked the integration costs.
So if the deal gets closed by the end of this year obviously hopefully most of the transaction costs will be behind us in 2015 whenever it does close 15 or 16 that's when the bulk of the transaction costs will hit.
As I said earlier we intend to rapidly integrate Sikorsky into our business that would require some acceleration maybe from what you're thinking in terms of the integration costs.
I don't know that we've got those totally nailed down at this point in time Sam but you should think of those 80 $100 million a year kind of level in 2016 as just the integration costs there.
Again hopefully it gets that behind us gets them integrated and enables us to have the synergy impacts having that much quicker.
The second question as far as the IT and whats changed.
You know it's funny I think as you continually go through a process of competing for new business even after we acquired some of the companies we acquired for instance SMS some of the new competition that SMS were competing for we saw some different acts on the behalf of some of our customers than we had been expecting.
Things like splitting out parts of the contract things like splitting out procured costs from the contract that frankly were another sort of twist to that business going forward that was sort of a culmination over a number of years of how that business and the dynamics of that business has changed.
You know when Sikorksy became available and when we looked at that and said thats the business that's probably more down the middle of what the rest of the Corporation is frankly we didn't think again just to reiterate what Marillyn said that we could necessarily compete in the environment and with the sorts of expectations that customers had in the IT and government services business successfully.
And in the interest of creating value for the Corporation and actually giving our employees the greatest chance for growth in the business that they love.
That's the reason for the separation.
So Id say it's not one or the other its probably the combination of the two that led to that.
The other thing that I would add to that is weve looked at -- what we're putting under strategic review we've looked at very closely relative to the rest of whats in IS&amp;GS for example and recognize that what we're putting under strategic review is work that is just increasingly difficult for us to be competitive in and under our standard business model its not I mean the work that they are doing is good work for our customers its important work that they are doing every day that it's just our standard business model it's difficult for us to compete.
And then the commercial cyber would be an example in what area it operates in.
We are not exiting the cyber security business that we do for the US government and for governments around the world.
That's an important element of business its an element that we bring a value to its with our robust multilayer cyber defense capability and we provide some of the most advanced cyber security solutions.
So in that regard we are staying in those businesses that we think really fit well with  that it's our core market and that we can be competitive in much of the business that we are looking at or all of the business that we are looking at putting a strategic review has become extremely price-sensitive.
And our customers will  we may be performing at the top of the heap on the work we're doing.
But if somebody comes in with a lower price and then re-compete they will move to a new player a new untested player.
And that's just the environment we are operating in.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Seth Seifman with JPMorgan.
Thanks very much.
Good morning.
As you guys have mentioned Sikorsky is one in a number of key DoD programs that should support sales growth in the future.
But maybe and I know this might be a little difficult to do -- but if you could just lay out a back of the envelope trajectory because you do have those new programs but at the same time you have some pressure on legacy programs and a new multi-year contract coming up on Black Hawk.
So maybe the trajectory over the next few years from an earnings standpoint where things kind of bottom out and then how the drivers come in to push that up as we head into the end of the decade? Seth welcome to the call by the way.
Just a couple of thoughts there and I will probably talk more top line and say  and lets you figure out maybe whats happening on the bottom line there.
But top line in terms of sort of valuation the way we look at this business and as I mentioned before the commercial helo market associated with the oil and gas industry is really not just for Sikorsky business but for the market at large has really gone down quite a bit.
So from where the peak in 2014 of sales to where we expect going forward we think that number is going to drop just on the commercial sales I dont have these numbers exactly committed to memory but I think they did $1.5 billion or so worth of commercial helo work in 2014 or so.
I dont know what the expectation is in 15 off the top of my head but I do know in the valuation that we put going forward we think that number comes closer to sort of $0.75 billion worth of business thats our view.
So you should think of that as creating some top line pressure at least in our view on the current level of revenue from 16 going forward for a couple of years and the commercial market obviously is the more profitable market as well.
So that puts pressure on the bottom line there.
Where we see that starting to turn around is some trickling of the commercial market getting better and the oil and gas market getting better say in the late 18 19 timeframe and thats also coincidentally when we see the transition from a lot of these developmental firms into production particularly the 53K so thats when we would expect to see sort of a rebound on the other side both from a top line as well as the bottom line and the margins kind of sort out the way that they will depending on the commercial market but thats just the way we should be in our judgement.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Thanks for taking my question again.
Bruce and Marillyn you've talked about this Sikorsky deal seen as relatively low execution risk.
But obviously Sikorsky has run into some problems with CMH with 53K.
Can you just talk about your comfort with the execution risk that you are taking on here? So I would say as Bruce commented earlier I mean we run government programs we run platform and systems programs across our entity.
I have never seen our company performing better in terms of how  of the programs that we are operating on today and so in that sense similarly Sikorsky has a long track record of success and in new development programs there are times when any company if its the complexity of it is going  we are going to have some challenges on the front end but I think we bring to this strong program management expertise and coupling that with Sikorsky performance and their innovative technology thats where we think this is a low risk.
I mean it is right in our core market we know how to build we both design and build platforms and so it fits right in our sweet spot.
The only thing I would add David is this is nothing new.
I mean what I believe  I am not there on the ground obviously but there is no technical show stoppers that we saw this is just a hardcore fact of going from development into production.
We have all companies probably emphasized with that more than anyone else on the planet probably.
But its how you look at what we have done in our history where we are finally on the F-35 program going from development to production where we have taken the fad from an infant position of trying to figure out this hit to kill air missile defense at the levels we are talking about actually work or not to where its now a production fielded facility or application just taking the PAC 3 missile to its next generation of the MSC taking satellites MUOS advanced DHF SBIRS from development to production weve got the scars we know what this is like so this is not a surprise to us and look we think when we get Sikorsky into the fold we are people whove sort of been through this a lot of different ways who can help with that process and we have really really good production people and not to say that Sikorsky does not because we are very impressed by the production team there now we think we have some synergies coming out there as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks.
Just a follow-up on the overall long term.
You mentioned you're buying over three decades.
You're on the joint multi-role helo effort today with Bell and then Sikorsky is on the team with Boeing.
Is there anything when the companies are combined that's going to preclude you from being on both teams or is this effectively improving your odds obviously? Well our intention is to the relationships that we have today on those programs.
We have  we want to bring the best solution to our customers we have some good partnerships that we are working on we intend to continue those partnerships going forward.
Myles the other thing I would add is that program especially the JLTV  the future vertical lift not JLTV.
Future vertical lift is so far out in the future you tell me when its going to happen the quantities and so forth there is a lot of chance between now and then for people to change ideas thoughts requirements et cetera.
So whether that ends up being the program that we think it is today or not is anyones guess.
And so its hard for me to get just too excited about where we sit today with something thats probably not going to come at the full rate production for 15 or 20 years.
Our next question comes from the line of George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Bruce on the F-35 was there a margin pick up there? Because you mentioned that you had $30 million higher profit on about $280 million in sales which obviously would be a higher margin than what you're currently booking on that program.
Yes George there was.
This is a second straight quarter where weve grown up booking rate on some of our LRIP contracts.
I think this is just recognizing the progression we are going through I believe this one  I am trying to think recall from memory George I believe this was on LRIB 6 and you should think of that as being associated with the completion of deliveries over this period of time.
So we are starting to get a cadence there.
I like to think I mean I think 6 is on an uptick was on an uptick I think 7 is also on uptick we need to see that cadence sort of continue going forward but I feel really good about where we are on the production back to my earlier comment going from transitioning from development firms to production we are right there and I think we are doing pretty well on that right now.
And on the C-5 Bruce you've been booking near zero with your comment that deliveries seem to be running a little better than expected.
What's the outlook for getting better profitability on that program? So George we have a planned step up in the second half of the year reflecting the good performance that we are seeing today.
I hope that thats something that we are going to actually do better even than what we had planned in the outlook there.
And I know you and I have talked specifically George about the potentiality of a claim associated with the over and above work we have on the C-5 program thats still just to be clear its still not considered within anything that I have talked about at this point in time.
And again thats something we feel very very strongly about in terms of entitlement and we will see how that plays out down the road but thats not a factor in anything that I just said earlier.
Our next question comes from the line of Ron Epstein with BofA Merrill Lynch.
Bruce just a real quick accounting question for you.
The $2 billion in tax savings that you guys get is that just straight line over 15 years? It is Ron.
Its a high degree of certainty because the tax benefits can be used for the combined company.
So those are take them home I mean those are benefits that are going to accrue the corporation.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
I'm going to miss this guys but with all the puts and takes on the Sikorsky deal are you expecting it to be free cash flow accretive in 2016? Yes its going to be a little bit neutral is probably the way I would describe it in 2016 as our expectation Pete and then well probably get plenty of time to start talking about the years thereafter but I think for near term purposes and like obviously some of that depends on whether it happens at the end of this year early next year little bit later but I think if it were for the whole year we think of it as being fairly neutral for us next year.
End of Q&amp;A I am showing no further questions at this time.
Id like to turn the call back to management for further remarks.
Thank you.
Well let me just conclude.
I appreciate all of you being on the today and I will just conclude by saying we had a strong quarter of financial results and the strategic actions that weve announced are expected to position the corporation to deliver even higher value to our customers and stockholders in the future.
So thanks again for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to speaking with you in October in our next earnings call.
Abigail that concludes our call today.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in todays conference.
This does conclude the program.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Lockheed Martin's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Karen and good morning everyone.
I'd like to welcome you to our third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Marillyn Hewson our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Statements made in today's call that are not historical fact are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of federal securities law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see today's press release and our SEC filings for description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Marillyn.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Jerry.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on the call today as we review our financial results and key accomplishments in the quarter as well as provide a status update on the strategic initiatives we announced during our July earnings call.
As today's release illustrates we continue to drive towards achievement of our full-year goals with another quarter of solid operational accomplishments and financial results that exceeded our expectations.
This outstanding year-to-date financial performance enables us to again increase full-year 2015 guidance for sales operating profit and earnings per share.
In addition to the increase to guidance we reaffirmed the prior 2015 outlook for full year orders and cash from operation.
Overall the corporation continues to excel in the attributes we most value providing critical solutions to customers and returning value to stockholders.
Looking beyond this year into 2016 we have provided our preliminary trend outlook of selected financial metrics and assumptions.
I wish to note that these trends reflect a continuation of our current portfolio.
We have excluded any impacts of the pending Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation acquisition or the strategic review of our information technology infrastructure services and technical services businesses.
In addition to the open elements resulting from these pending strategic actions there is continuing uncertainty about the final level of fiscal year 2016 DoD and federal budgets.
The government is currently operating under a short-term continuing resolution that limits expenditures to prior year fiscal level and is carried through December 11 2015.
For the large portion of our backlog work already funded from prior fiscal years we do not expect significant impact to our 2016 financials from this current short-term CR.
There are multiple and differing budget scenarios proposed by the White House and Congress for FY 2016 budgets.
Significant differences remain between the proposed budget in the areas of funding sources and the potential use of increased overseas contingency operations funds for DoD.
Reconciliation of the different DoD budget positions remains unresolved and could remain this way for some time.
We hope that this is not the case as it is not in the nation's interests.
A substantial delay would require an extension of the CR to enable continuation of government operations beyond December 11.
While we think it unlikely a continuing resolution and its associated budget constraints could be extended for the full FY 2016 year should the varying budget positions remain unresolved.
In the event of a full-year CR we would anticipate some level of impact against our 2016 orders profile and corresponding backlog levels.
We continue to urge bipartisan negotiation and resolution of the FY 2016 budget to remove the uncertainties associated with non-strategic short-term government funding actions.
We will provide updates to our 2016 outlook as additional clarity on federal budgets and finalization of our strategic actions occur.
While Bruce will cover the financials in detail a little later I want to particularly highlight our continued exceptional cash generation.
This quarter we achieved over $1.5 billion in cash from operations bringing the September year-to-date cash generation to over $3.7 billion.
Also during the quarter our board of directors approved two key actions in the areas of cash deployment.
First we increased the quarterly dividend to $1.65 per share and $6.60 annually.
This action represents the 13th consecutive year that the dividend rate has been increased by double-digit percentages.
Second we also increased the share repurchase authority by $3 billion bringing total repurchase authority to over $4 billion.
This level of authority provides additional flexibility to continue to make share repurchases consistent with our plan to have less than 300 million shares outstanding by the end of 2017 if market conditions and our fiduciary duties permit.
These projected share repurchases coupled with dividend payments are expected to result in our returning the vast majority of annual free cash to stockholders through 2017 and continuing our longstanding strategy of disciplined cash deployment and value creation.
Moving to operations.
While numerous mission success events were achieved across the corporation this past quarter I wish to highlight some noteworthy achievements on the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program in our Aeronautics business.
On JSF we were extraordinarily pleased with the achievement of initial operational capability for the F-35B variant in July.
The declaration of IOC by the U.S.
Marine Corps makes it the first F-35 variant available for combat operations and achieved an enormous milestone for the program.
Other key F-35 milestones accomplished this quarter included a number of firsts on the program including the inaugural European flight of the first F-35 assembled at Italy's final assembly and checkout facility.
This marked the first time a jet has flown outside of the United States.
Additionally rollout of the first F-35 aircraft for the Norwegian Armed Forces was accomplished this past quarter marking an important production milestone for the future of Norway's national defense.
Beyond these key milestones aircraft production continues to ramp up and we are on track to achieve deliveries of approximately 45 aircrafts in 2015 representing 25% higher aircraft deliveries than were achieved in 2014.
Since program inception we have delivered 140 production aircraft to our U.S.
and international partners.
The F-35 program continues to expand and is now generating approximately 20% of annual corporate revenues.
This figure is expected to grow over the next few years as production rates increase for deliveries to U.S.
and international customers.
I'd like to briefly turn to a status of the two strategic actions we announced back in July.
First the acquisition of Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation continues to progress through the regulatory review process.
Competition-based regulatory reviews have been completed in seven jurisdictions importantly including the United Sates where we and Sikorsky have the most activity.
The sole remaining such review is ongoing in China which we are expecting to clear without difficulty.
Other regulatory activities such as licensing and permitting continue in process.
We had previously announced that we expected to close the acquisition in either the fourth quarter of 2015 or in the first quarter of 2016.
But with the progress of the regulatory reviews we now expect to close in the fourth quarter.
We very much look forward to adding the men and women of such an outstanding company to the Lockheed Martin team where we will continue to make history together.
Regarding our second action the strategic review of our government information technology infrastructure services and technical services businesses we continue to evaluate multiple options ranging from a spinoff to shareholders a Reverse Morris Trust transaction or a sale of these businesses.
Exploration of these options is intended to ensure that these businesses are best positioned to address competitive pressures on what is becoming an increasingly difficult environment by improving the affordability of their products and services.
This should benefit customers our stockholders and the employees.
On that note I particularly wish to thank the affected employees for their continued focus and outstanding performance while we evaluate the strategic review options.
I believe we are on course to complete the strategic review in 2015 and we will provide an update on our action plan when the final decision is completed.
I will now ask Bruce to go through the details of third quarter and full-year financial performance and our 2016 financial trends preview.
And then we'll open the line for questions.
Thanks Marillyn.
Good morning everyone.
As I highlight our key financial accomplishments please follow along with the web charts that we included with our earnings release today.
Beginning with chart 3 we have an overview of our third quarter results.
Sales for the quarter were $11.5 billion ahead of our expectations when we spoke in the second quarter.
Our segment operating margin was also better than expected in the quarter at 11.9% and enabled us to achieve earnings per share of $2.77.
Cash from operations in the quarter was strong at $1.5 billion and reflects an earlier phasing of cash in the second half of the year than we had planned.
Our cash deployment actions in the quarter remained strong with $1.3 billion of cash returned to shareholders including more than $800 million in share repurchases.
And based on these results we are increasing our full-year outlook for sales segment operating profit and earnings per share.
So we continue to perform well in 2015 and are positioned to end the year better than we expected when we began the year.
On chart 4 we compare our sales and segment operating margin in the third quarter with our results in 2014.
Sales were higher by about 3% compared with the third quarter of last year with the growth driven by the F-35 program and Aeronautics and the ramp-up of new programs in Mission Systems and Training.
Segment operating margin was slightly lower in the quarter at 11.9% versus the 12.1% we experienced last year.
Space systems had good performance in the quarter but could not equal the results from the third quarter last year which were the highest of any quarter in 2014.
Improved performance in Aeronautics and Mission Systems and Training helped to bring the overall margin this quarter to near the results in 2014.
Chart 5 compares our earnings per share this quarter with our results from a year ago.
Our EPS of $2.77 was $0.01 higher than the results from last year but the results this quarter included a negative $0.08 impact from a severance charge associated with IS&amp;GS.
If you'll turn to chart 6 we'll review our share repurchase activity for the quarter and year-to-date.
During the quarter we repurchased more than 4 million shares for $823 million bringing our year-to-date total to 12 million shares repurchased for $2.4 billion.
Both the quarter and year-to-date totals significantly exceed our levels from last year.
And we are now expecting to spend at least $3 billion for the full year of 2015 keeping us on track to bring our share count below 300 million by the end of 2017.
Chart 7 provides details into our total cash returns to stockholders through the end of the third quarter.
Through dividends and share repurchases during the first three quarters we have provided nearly $3 billion in cash to our stockholders or 117% of our free cash flow through the same period.
As you can see this is significantly higher than our actions in 2014.
On chart 8 we discuss our updated outlook for our full-year 2015 results.
We are not changing our guidance for orders at this time.
We continue to expect that the fourth quarter will have the highest level of orders in the year with a number of large digital events such as the finalization of the C-130J Multiyear and F-35 LRIP 9 contracts and the award of a Long Range Strike Bomber program.
Depending on the timing and ultimate value of some of the expected orders in the quarter we could end the year in excess of the high end of our guidance but remain confident that under the most likely scenarios we will end the year with $80 billion or more of backlog.
Because we have increasing clarity on the year we are providing point estimates rather than ranges for the remaining metrics.
Beginning with sales we are increasing our outlook to $45 billion the high end of our previous outlook reflecting higher-than-expected sales in Aeronautics and Space Systems for the full year.
For segment operating profit we are increasing our outlook to $5.4 billion $25 million above the high end of our previous guidance recognizing stronger performance across the business areas.
We're also increasing our earnings per share outlook at the top end of the prior guidance as a result of the increased profit outlook.
And we are leaving our cash from operations outlook unchanged at equal to or greater than $5 billion but there are several large collections that could push that number higher or lower than our expectations depending on their timing.
These include the collections associated with the contract finalizations that I mentioned earlier as well as the timing of deliveries in December.
Chart 9 provides our sales outlook by business area for the year also with point estimates for each of the business areas rather than the ranges we provided in the prior outlook.
Both aeronautics and space systems are now above the prior high end of our guidance for sales.
Chart 10 shows our current outlook for segment operating profit by business area compared to what we were expecting the last quarter.
You can see that our current outlook for each business area is equal to or better than last quarter's outlook and results have increased to $5.4 billion.
On chart 11 we provide our first outlook information for 2016.
We expect sales next year will be comparable to the current outlook for 2015 but is driven primarily by two business areas moving in opposite directions Aeronautics and IS&amp;GS.
Aeronautics is expected to grow at a high single-digit rate over 2015 while IS&amp;GS is expected to decrease in 2016 by an even greater rate.
Sales for the other three business areas combined are essentially comparable to their 2015 levels.
Without the reduction in IS&amp;GS we would expect the remaining portfolio to grow about 2% over the 2015 level.
Segment margin will likely be in the 11% to 11.5% range with a reduction from this year's level attributable to several items.
First the F-35 program will grow more than double digits above the 2015 level and while the margin for the program is expected to be higher in 2016 it is still dilutive to both the current level of aeronautics margin and the overall company's margin.
Second we are seeing a reduction of margins on recently negotiated programs such as C-130J air and missile defense programs and others after several years of strong performance and we've also made a number of important strategic bids that were highly competitive but which offer long-term value creation.
And third we are expecting reductions in revenue for some of our programs such as GMLRS ATACMS Javelin and fire control programs as in-theater demand slows down from 2015 levels.
These programs experienced unplanned demands from OCO funding that enabled better than historical margin levels in recent years.
At this time we expect our FAS/CAS benefit to be $810 million next year which assumes a discount rate of 4.25% and zero return on our assets from the current year.
These obviously can both change between now and yearend but that's where we see them today.
Our cash from operations should be comparable to 2015 and we do not expect to make any contributions to our pension plans next year.
And in line with our plan to reduce share count below 300 million by the end of 2017 we expect to make share repurchases of greater than or equal to $2 billion in 2016.
Importantly please note that this outlook excludes both the Sikorsky acquisition and any actions related to our businesses under strategic review.
Finally on chart 12 we have our summary.
We've had strong performance through the first three quarters of the year and we expect a strong close to 2015.
We're maintaining our focus on the cash deployment action that you've come to expect from us.
And we continue to like how our portfolio positions us for the future.
Before closing I also wanted to make a few comments about the strategic actions that we announced last quarter.
As Marillyn said we expect to reach a decision on the path forward for our businesses under strategic review before the yearend and we'll communicate that decision to you then.
And when we outline our formal guidance in January for 2016 we will provide that guidance in a business area structure that will reflect all businesses under strategic review in IS&amp;GS including the technical services business for Missiles and Fire Control and the realignment of the remaining businesses from IS&amp;GS into Mission Systems and Training and Space Systems.
With that we're ready for your questions.
Karen? Thank you.
Our first question for today comes from the line of Jason Gursky from Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> First I just want to dive a little bit deeper on the margin outlook for 2016.
There were a couple of things that you mentioned C-130 air missile defense and then some strategic bids.
I'd like to get a little bit more color on each of those.
C-130 and air missile defense have those been definitized at this point or are we still waiting for that to happen? And then on the strategic bids can you just walk us through what segments those are impacting and just kind of the competitive dynamics that are going on there? Yeah.
Sort of a mouthful there Jason.
Let me try to cover all of these things.
So margins we talked about C-130 air missile defense system other programs.
So C-130 we're just coming off of a number of contracts that were negotiated essentially with the same timeframe and we're about to start delivering next year actually.
The first aircraft associated with the multi-year contract that we're  we've just reached the handshake agreement here within the last couple of weeks.
So as you can imagine we've done very well based on our previously reported results on those aircrafts where it's sort of a reset if you will.
When you start negotiating the next contract you start with the exit performance in mind.
And then you have to start seeing if you can improve off of that now higher bar if you will of that performance.
So that's sort of the C-130.
Again as I said that we did reach handshake within the last couple of weeks.
The air and missile defense program kind of a similar story a lot of PAC-3 negotiations.
So the early stages of that program we performed very well again sort of reset some of those contracts going forward.
We just  we reached agreement on fiscal year 2014 and 2015 here recently although none of those including the Multiyear are at this point definitized.
We suspect that they will be before the end of the year.
And then I talked about strategic bids.
So just to rattle off a few of them and you should think of this as sort of impacting a lot of the business areas not just one single business area but things like the bomber program that we're hopeful is announced this year.
Obviously a very strategic bid obviously one that does have long-term value creation for the corporation but one that we did view very strategically and we bid it accordingly.
You can also think of programs such as a number of radar programs like for instance the Long Range Discriminating Radar the 3DELRR program.
Within our Missiles and Fire Control business a couple of things going on there so programs like the Joint Air-To-Ground Missile the JAGM that we ran recently.
It's essentially the replacement of the HELLFIRE missile obviously an important franchise program for us going forward.
And then within the ground combat vehicles although it's still under protest the LTV was one of those.
You may not have been watching quite as closely the Amphibious Combat Vehicle for the Marine Corps but that's another one that we're tracking very closely.
And then you didn't mention that Jason but in the remarks that I made a comment about a number of sort of overseas contingency operations programs being expected not to be funded at the same levels going forward as they were in 2015 and previously.
Think of that as there's a lot of use of the sort of the expandable items that those programs make up with sort of unplanned orders that increased the volume of activity unexpectedly higher than we have priced and we have the benefit of that unplanned volume.
We're not planning on that in 2015 going forward.
So I think that hopefully covered a bunch of the items you were talking about Jason.
And I'll stop there and go to the next question.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski from Drexel Hamilton.
Hey.
Good quarter guys.
Good morning Pete.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Hey guys.
On the 2016 guidance is there upside to the flattish top line if we do get a budget before the end of this calendar year or is a risk if we don't? Pete I'll take that one.
I don't see a whole lot of swing one way or the other quite honestly in 2016.
The vast majority of sales that will be recognized in 2016 are already in backlog or we would expect them to already be in  to be in backlog by the end of this year.
Essentially other than again IS&amp;GS which is the short sort of turn business within the corporation we would not expect orders that would be received in the fourth quarter of this year the first year of the fiscal year for the government to necessarily translate into a lot of sales next year.
And you should think that as a continuing resolution you can't have new start programs you can't spend more in the new fiscal year than the prior fiscal year.
The rest of the business areas like IS&amp;GS that's not going to be a hindrance.
I mean again we're expecting that business area to actually decrease in the volume.
So we wouldn't expect to have a huge impact from what we're guiding as a result of the CR.
But conversely as I said we wouldn't expect to see upside either.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Rich Safran from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
How are you? Good morning Rich.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Marillyn or Bruce in the release you note that you may be at risk for reimbursement in excess of cost.
You're still in negotiations and the concern that current funding is insufficient to cover your production cost.
I wanted to know if you could provide more clarification on your statements in the release discuss the impact it might have on your $5 billion full-year cash flow goal for 2015.
Also and if you could just tell us when the deadline would be for receiving funding such that the $750 million you mentioned in cash you expect to collect could be pushed into 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Bruce why don't you take that one? Yeah.
Sure Rich.
Let me take a shot of that.
I'll probably maybe give you more color than you maybe really want for that but  so you should think of this affecting a number of very large programs specifically just to name two but it's not limited to those two the C-130J Multiyear and the LRIP 9 negotiation.
Again C-130J we did reach handshake as I said earlier to Jason just a couple of weeks ago.
We're still in the process of negotiating LRIP 9.
But on both contracts think of this as where we received initial funding to start work.
This is typically described as sort of long-lease funding or advance procurement funding.
We literally take that money and begin to work with our supply chain to start funding the supply chain.
It doesn't honestly go in the earlier stages to do a whole lot of work for Lockheed Martin because we're further down that food chain if you will than our suppliers.
In both cases we ran out of funding provided.
In both cases we asked for additional funding.
And in both cases we were told that none would be provided until those contracts were actually negotiated.
This was a little change frankly from historical  my experience at least historically as to how we get funding.
Ordinarily you get long-lease funding; when you reach the end of that long-lease funding you ask for additional funding which usually comes in the form of an undefinitized contractual action or UCA as it's called or you actually end up with a negotiated contract.
For whatever reason the government in this case decided not to fund until we reached negotiation.
And so we were faced with a decision of do we actually disrupt the supply chain  and you can imagine the kind of disruption that that creates telling potentially hundreds of thousands  hundreds to thousands excuse me of suppliers to stop work furlough their employees potentially lay off employees and then having to restart that effort.
And most of our supply chains simply can't afford to fund this on their own.
So with that in mind we decided to continue funding those programs again primarily funding our suppliers as opposed to Lockheed Martin.
You should think also that the funding needs on these programs starts to accelerate pretty dramatically at certain points in time.
In the case of both of those programs from the summer time until the end of the year the funding needs increase dramatically.
And that's why we disclosed that in the earnings released to you today; that's why we'll disclose that in the 10-Q that you'll see in a couple of days.
I'll tell you we have elevated this to various senior levels at the Pentagon.
We've been told that funding will be provided on both those programs but it does require I'll say a lot of paperwork notifications contract modifications and the like to make it happen.
We think that will occur this year but obviously a lot of cash is tied up.
And we want to make sure that we at least notified you of that.
Honestly it's a little bit difficult for me to understand as to why we're in this situation.
You really have to ask the folks in the Pentagon as to why we're in this spot.
As far as  you did ask the question as far as cash in 2015 (sic) [2016] above or below 2015 we do need  we identified the value of the two particular items for both the Multiyear and the F-35; it's worth about $0.75 billion.
But timing-wise we need to get that probably notification and ability to bill sometime before Thanksgiving typically to sort of get that by the end of the year.
That's not always the case.
Sometimes we can get it if it happens in the early December timeframe.
But just to be certain that's when it would sort of be helpful to make that happen.
And you should think of this between the two years 2015 and 2016 if it doesn't happen in 2015 it will happen in 2016.
You should think of the two years still being the same cash value just how much of that happens in 2015 versus 2016.
So current plan is $5 billion and $5 billion.
If we were short $750 million we would add that $750 million to next year.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak from Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Noah.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
I wondered if you could address this recent press about some possible fairly large corporate overhead cost reduction.
It's hard to tell what's related to the government IT business review and what's part of the remaining business.
It would seem like a fairly large number that's out there if it is in fact a decent amount in the remaining business.
And then related or I guess depending on your answer to that related Bruce in the past you've commented when you've given your initial segment margin outlook about qualitatively how much conservatism is in it or how much upside risk there is.
And I guess I wonder if there's more cost coming out than normal is there more upside risk or not? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let me take your first question Noah.
I did see the press that was around a 30% overhead reduction.
Let me just put some color around that for you.
I mean we are always looking at our business structure and looking at different excursions we should take in order to keep our business competitive within the business environment that we operate in.
So I'm looking to target the 20% 30% 40%.
I mean that  so just to put it in perspective this is a matter of us constantly looking at where the opportunities are for us to be as affordable as we can and how we adjust our business base to the business environment that we're operating in.
We look at the supply chain.
We look at overhead and we look at performance of the business areas.
Every year the business areas set affordability targets that they then look at both production and overhead cost reductions that they can take improvements in their processes.
And similarly we do that at the corporate level.
So that's the essence of that.
Bruce I think you'll take the next part.
Yeah.
No effect on  I think just to repeat your question the initial segment margin outlook in years past we sort of talked about potential to do better than that going forward.
I'll say Noah 2016 initial guidance that we're providing is very similar in terms of expectations of upside or downside as to what we've done in years past.
If you go back and look at 2014 and 2015 for instance from the start of the year to the end of the year we saw improvements in both of those years in terms of the overall company segment margin because we performed better on certain programs and that has enabled us to take step-ups during the year that resulted in that higher performance that higher segment margin.
So as I always say I think we have the same opportunities.
As I look at 2016 that doesn't make it happen just because I think there are opportunities there.
It actually takes a lot of work to make those materialize but we surely believe we are sitting here with the same opportunities as we had in 2014 and 2015.
And then I think you tried to link that with the potential reductions that Marillyn talked about.
I don't see a whole lot of swing around those even if those were at the full value that was reported in the press which I don't particularly think there's a high likelihood of that but I wouldn't expect that to have a very significant impact on the overall company margins at all.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ron Epstein from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hey.
Yeah.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Good morning Ron.
Marillyn I have a big picture question for you.
Post the announcement of the Sikorsky transaction the DoD came out and said you know what we don't want to see any more big M&amp;A and they suggested that the consolidation in the industry has been anti-innovative and then kind of notably your company came back and took issue with that.
Can you elaborate on that I mean your thoughts on consolidation and the impact that it had or not had on innovation? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
I'll be happy to.
Thanks for the question Ron.
I guess I've had a lot of discussions with Frank Kendall and others about this policy statement that he put out and respectfully I told him that we disagree with that that his general conclusion and his rationale that consolidation in the industry is bad for the industry.
There's really no evidence to support that.
There's no evidence to support that with our Sikorsky acquisition that we reduce competition or inhibit innovation in any way.
And in fact if you look at our performance we have consistently delivered the best and most sophisticated defense capabilities in the world.
We're going to  we intend to continue to do that.
We successfully compete for opportunities that come about and we invest in advanced technologies every day.
We offer cost-effective solutions.
We wouldn't be able to be reporting out the type of financial results that you're seeing and have been seeing for the last several years without performing well.
And we're performing well for the Department of Defense.
We're performing well for other government agencies and for other countries around the world in what we're doing.
And so I wholeheartedly disagree that through consolidation through some change in size of a business that that's going to impede our innovation and somehow inhibit our innovation.
I recognize that from the perspective of the Department of Defense they have to make sure they've got a competitive industrial base.
And so that  they have to maintain that proper balance.
But really we believe that you have to continue to look at how you can be most effective.
It's not about the size of the company.
It's about performance.
I mean that's been the standard for  in our free enterprise system forever.
And I think it's what makes us strong as a nation.
And actually if you consider what would the alternative be to be a smaller company and break it up it could actually cost you more.
I think the  with the economies of scale that come with what we can bring together in our business and how we can invest in research and development how we can invest in the capital expenditures that we need to.
And as Bruce just described to you how we can help to fund suppliers through a period of  between contract negotiations we would not be able to do that if we didn't have the economies of scale that we have today.
So bottom line as you can feel  hear it from my passion in my voice we do not believe the consolidation will inhibit innovation in the industry.
Thank you for the question.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Just a quick clarification on the comment around IS&amp;GS Bruce.
The higher rate that you stated was that a higher rate of decline than the 2015 number or a higher rate of decline than the high-single digits that you pointed to for the aerospace growth just wanted to clarify that? And then I also wondered if you'd give us a bit of an update given the Q4 close on Sikorsky what that does in terms of the timing of the integration costs and the synergy targets that you had laid out before in terms of what  how much of that comes into 2015 or how that impacts 2016 relative to what you said on the last call? Thank you.
Yeah.
You bet Carter.
So sorry if I wasn't clear in the words to begin with on the IS&amp;GS but the latter is the short answer to that.
IS&amp;GS is decreasing at a faster rate than the single-digit  high-single-digit rate of growth for aeronautics in 2016.
So IS&amp;GS will be decreasing at higher than a high-single-digit rate in 2016 if that makes sense.
And then to your question as to Sikorsky and the timing and how that potentially changes integration costs and synergy costs I wouldn't expect they would have a huge impact on the integration costs or the ability to achieve synergy.
We're still looking at spending and I think the last time I talked to you $80 million to $100 million or so of integration costs probably in the first year.
And that's in large part to accelerate the synergies that we expect are there with the Sikorsky integration.
We expect that will still take place in 2016.
What will change or what will not necessarily change but will be greater clarity is that now a lot of the transaction costs associated with closing of the Sikorsky deal will hit in the fourth quarter of this year.
So you should think of that rough order of magnitude and I hope we're on the lower end of this but probably accounting for $0.10 to $0.15 impact to earnings per share in the year.
And we thought about that relative to describing that in the guidance we provided.
But we're still hopeful quite honestly that we can have an R&amp;D research and development tax credit that will pass this year and that offsets  that actually more  probably maybe more than offsets that impact of the transaction cost of 2016.
So net-net we would expect to see those costs hit in the fourth quarter but we're also hopeful that the R&amp;D tax credit more than mitigates that also in the fourth quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning Myles.
Inc.</span></strong> Bruce I was hoping you can touch back on Sikorsky for a second.
In terms of doing the alignment of their accounting with your accounting inside of Lockheed how the margins of Sikorsky might behave.
And then also related as you look at the $5 billion cash for next year and substituting out the IS&amp;GS or IT tech services business for Sikorsky what's the put and take for from a cash flow perspective? Okay.
So Myles we're going to give you in January a whole lot more insight into Sikorsky assuming it closes in the fourth quarter of this year.
We made some  obviously when we did the due diligence process with Sikorsky we made some relative assumptions as to I'll say the conforming accounting that we expect to do.
I tried to tee that up I think in the last call and I literally don't have any better information to give you than what I provided to you on the July call.
I'll give you I think much great insight into that when we actually provide the formal guidance in January not just for the rest of the company but for Sikorsky in particular as well again assuming we close that in the fourth quarter.
As far as the $5 million of cash next year it obviously depends on when the strategic review culminates.
We're looking at depending on whether it's a sale a spin or a Reverse Morris Trust somewhere in probably the middle of next year to the third quarter of next year.
So I would like to think that we may be able to offset most of that if it were to spin or be sold or did a Reverse Morris Trust next year.
Again with both the spin or Reverse Morris Trust or the sale we would expect to get cash proceeds back.
I know that's not operating cash flow but it would be greater frankly than whatever the shortfall is that we would expect to lose with the transfer of that business outside of the corporation.
So probably a little bit of a wishy-washy answer but I don't know given the timing of when that deal would close and the timing of the cash flow in the year for IS&amp;GS just to really give me a good idea what that benefit would look like or detriment.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Arment from Sterne Agee.
Yes.
Good morning Marillyn and Bruce.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Marillyn I guess could you give us like kind of a big picture view on what you're seeing from international customers? I know there's been a lot of volatility in the oil-exporting countries and have you seen any slippages or  and maybe just related to that Bruce are there any significant programs that we should be thinking about for 2016 in terms of international contracts? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks for the question Peter.
We are just continuing to see strong demand in the international marketplace for our programs.
Missile defense continues to be a big driver for a lot of the Asia-Pacific and Middle East countries things like THAAD Aegis Aegis Ashore Patriot needs.
There is a continued demand for that.
You know that we continue to have the demand for our tactical aircraft the F-16 the F-35; and as well as mobility C-130J.
In terms of oil prices we're really not seeing a pullback on expenditures for oil prices because frankly these countries are looking to meet their essential national security needs.
And many of them have deep reserves countries like the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Qatar and the UAE and others.
And really they're not  we don't see them pulling back at all on what they need to do in terms of purchasing their missile defense their fighters.
And now I think you probably have seen that Saudi is doing their naval expansion program where they've already committed to purchasing MH-60 Romeo helicopters.
And now there is a process underway with the LCS being  there is a positive momentum on their acquisition of the LCS.
They have now the congressional notification for them to purchase up to four littoral combat ships for their multi-mission surface combatant.
And so we stand ready to support that sale because what they're interested in is a freedom-class LCS experience that we produce which could  we could potentially get under contract sometime next year.
We're making great progress.
We achieved 20% international sales.
We're now on a path to 25% of international sales.
We have  for 2014 we had about $20 billion in international in our backlog so we continue to see a strong pull for our portfolio internationally.
And as I travel around the world I just returned from the Middle East and there continue to be a strong demand.
So Peter you asked about just some of the larger maybe international pursuits in 2016 that we're looking to accomplish.
Probably first and foremost that is a THAAD sale to Qatar.
This has been in discussions for quite some time and it's ongoing quite frankly but we think that ultimately it will close in 2016.
Marillyn just mentioned littoral combat ship as part of the SNEP program in Saudi Arabia.
We'll see if that's able to close in 2016 but I think the prospects just got better with the congressional notification that we saw yesterday.
There's numerous F-35 international buys sort of all co-mingled within the LRIP 9 and LRIP 10 contracts that we're negotiating there.
But those do contain significant quantities of international customers.
And then maybe just to finalize the thought there we expect to have some modification at least one fairly good-sized modification program on F-16s and we haven't given up on selling new F-16s to at least a couple of different prospects.
And we're hopeful we can get at least one of those deals closed in 2016.
So that's four probably more than that if you include the multiple numerous customers with an F-35.
Those are some of the larger ones next year.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Harned from Bernstein.
Thank you.
On international sales when I look at Missiles and Fire Control I think of that as a unit that's a lot of drive from international sales and it's PAC-3 THAAD different missile programs.
But if you look over the last several years backlogs have been pretty flat.
Now I know you've had some pullback on the services side and backlogs were a little bit better  got better this quarter.
But can you reconcile the fact that we should be seeing a lot of international demand for these programs yet so far we really haven't seen it reflected in a big increase in backlogs there? Yes.
So Doug I'll try to answer that.
I think the biggest reason that you don't see that is one we've seen some delays in negotiations.
As I said we just now finished actually negotiating here  I say just now here recently we just finished negotiating both the FY 2014 and FY 2015 Patriot deals the factory deals.
Those orders when they're finalized are pretty good-sized.
We typically don't see at Missiles and Fire Controls the sort of multi-year orders like you might associate with the aircraft programs at aeronautics.
They tend to be individual fiscal year buys.
So because we don't sort of reach forward and get multiple fiscal years in a combined buy you don't see the increases in backlog that you might experience with Missiles and Fire Control.
We do expect through  as you look at the year 2015 we do expect to end the year at higher levels of backlog than we began the year for Missiles and Fire Control by as much as about $1.5 billion.
So it's not like it's shrinking.
It is growing.
It's growing at a clip.
But it's not growing leaps and bounds like you would expect to see with a large multiyear program.
That's simply not the way those products are typically being bought.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Rob Spingarn from Credit Suisse.
Morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Just want to ask a couple of things on F-35.
Since you're still negotiating LRIP 9 how much margin risk is there given the work that's already been done that you referred to earlier? And then Marillyn you talked about the full year the effect of a full-year CR and how debilitating that would be.
But it would be largely a backlog issue in 2016.
Are we referring to the slippage of  I think it's 19 F-35s? And at what point will we see that in the P&amp;L and how would that affect just the production efficiencies? I'll take on the first one Rob.
The F-35 LRIP 9 negotiation and margin risk if this is not done.
Rob I would characterize this as sort of par for the course typical.
I mean this is what we've been going through with F-35 for quite some time.
I'll say that the numbers that we talk about for 2016 because there's so little impact of LRIP 9 affecting the P&amp;L in 2016 I wouldn't expect to see a huge swing no matter sort of what we negotiated margin-wise on LRIP 9.
And maybe I'll let Marillyn answer the broader CR question but you asked a specific one about 19 aircraft on the F-35 if there is sort of a full-year continuing resolution.
I think that number is about right.
That's the number that the Pentagon has talked about.
Again we wouldn't expect to see much of an impact of that affecting 2016.
You would start to see that pick up steam in 2017 and 2018 and beyond.
I'll remind you we do record revenue and earnings on a cost-to-cost basis as opposed to units of delivery.
So those 19 aircraft would stop having less growth than we had expected to have happen but not much in 2016.
It would start happening in 2017 and beyond.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think you pretty well answered him Bruce...
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Hi Sam.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Can you talk a little bit about the Space Systems segment just what drove the better-than-expected sales and earnings? Does this change your view towards how strategic it is to maintain your ULA joint venture? And if I can sneak a second one in Bruce can you just tell us is CapEx mostly flat year-over-year as we look at the 2016 free cash? Thanks.
I'll try that Sam.
So third quarter Space was actually down about 5% in the quarter.
We should think of that  we had a commercial launch last year and none this year.
That was probably the biggest driver for the reduction.
There's a lot of pieces sort of moving around but that wasn't the biggest reason for the delta.
I was thinking more in terms of the year getting better more than...
Oh the year I'm sorry for the full year.
Yeah so we've had  the overall year performance had been very good.
We've had extremely good performance on our government satellite contracts and we actually have had some upticks from an EBIT perspective as well with the F-35  from the ULA joint venture that your next question asked about.
So sort of the combined.
We're seeing really really good performance out of Space Systems on their legacy programs.
Think of it as the satellite programs like SBIRS and Advanced EHF.
But also on the launch vehicle business with ULA we're seeing some more equity earnings there.
As to the other question on the ULA JV we haven't decided anything differently about the ULA JV despite what's in the press Sam so I'm not going to comment on that at this point in time.
And then I think your last question was on CapEx for next year and how we should think of that.
You should think of that as being essentially comparable to this year's level maybe a little bit higher.
But I'll tell you every year as we look out to the next year people think we're going to spend more in CapEx and we tend to not do that as we go throughout the year.
So for right now I'll just say probably pretty comparable to this year's level.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Seth Seifman from J.P.
Morgan.
Hi.
Thanks very much.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Just to ask about the plan  the strategic review your ability to conclude the strategic review and make a decision about what to do with those businesses how much is that contingent upon a budget outcome just having a budget outcome and then on any particular budget outcome? Yes.
So Seth I don't think we see much dependency whatsoever on a budget outcome.
I don't  and again I'll just go back to  if you look at this business and what the projections are for this business they're sort of unaffected by the budget outcome in terms of continuing resolution and the like because again continuing resolution would put a hindrance on new starts programs that are growing fiscal year over fiscal year.
We don't have a whole lot of that in this business.
And I wouldn't expect that to have much of an impact as far as deciding what to do with the businesses on a strategic review as a result of that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I would just to add to that that we are getting strong expressions of interest from a lot of different parties ranging from strategic buyers to non-strategic buyers.
And I think that makes the point that these are high quality assets and it's a very strong business portfolio.
So it just reaffirms our belief that this is the kind of business that would benefit from a lower cost structure outside of Lockheed Martin.
And we feel very strongly that we'll be able to come to a conclusion by the end of the year on what the path forward is for that element of our business to make it more competitive and stronger in the marketplace.
Karen I think we're coming up on the hour.
Maybe I'll  one last question and we'll turn it over to Marillyn for final comments.
Certainly.
Our final question for today comes from the line of David Strauss from UBS.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Bruce maybe looking to get a little bit of help in terms of how we model things on a go-forward basis.
With the outcome of whatever you decide to do with government IT and PS there will be a fair amount of dilution.
Depending on which route you choose and the cash that comes in would you expect to be able to fairly quickly offset a fair amount of the dilution from potentially selling those businesses or just in terms of how we're modeling this going forward how should we think about it? Yeah.
So there's a lot of  depending on the structure David there's a lot of just moving pieces that try to predict the outcome there.
You should think of a spin as essentially a left pocket right pocket to our shareholders right because the value of the business under a spin would simply be held by the same shareholders that hold Lockheed Martin stock today.
So total effect on shareholders is not  should be inconsequential in that view.
I understand the dilution if you look at the after-Lockheed Martin but there is a lot of moving pieces that could affect that.
Obviously the amount of cash that we get back whether it's a sale obviously we get back a lot more cash.
Whether it's a split or not as part of the spin/merge there's a lot of different moving pieces there that are just at this point hard to predict.
We'll have I think a whole lot more fidelity and a whole lot better insight on that when we finally reach a final decision of the outcome or the path for the outcome in December.
And again we're going to communicate that to you just as soon as we get there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> So let me just conclude the call today.
I want to end by reiterating that the corporation had another solid quarter and we continue to be well-positioned to deliver substantial value to our customers and to our stockholders.
We'll continue to progress toward a successful closure for 2015 and as we look ahead in 2016.
Thanks again for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to speaking to you on the next earnings call in January.
And let me just turn it back over to you Karen to conclude our call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Good day and welcome everyone to the Lockheed Martin Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Kircher Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Karen and good morning everyone.
I'd like to welcome you to our fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Marillyn Hewson our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bruce Tanner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Statements made in today's call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities law.
Actual results may differ.
Please see today's press release and our SEC filings for description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.
We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments.
Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Marillyn.
Thanks Jerry.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call.
As todays release illustrates we completed another quarter of solid operational accomplishments while exceeding all of our full year financial goals and I couldnt be more proud of our team.
They remain focused on mission success for our customers and financial results for stockholders while also supporting extensive portfolio reshaping actions.
We have a number of significant events to discuss today in addition to reviewing our financial and operational results I want to provide an update on the FY 2016 DoD budget and a discussion of two completed strategic actions the closure of our acquisition of Sikorsky Aircraft and our decision to separate and combine our Information Systems &amp; Global Solutions with Leidos in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction.
Financially 2015 was an exceptional year with achievement of multiple new high watermarks for the Corporation.
I was especially pleased to see the broad based domestic and international customer support for our portfolio of products.
This support resulted in our achieving a record level of backlog of nearly $100 billion.
Excluding the acquired Sikorsky backlog the rest of our portfolio achieved $84 billion significantly surpassing the $80 billion goal we outlined at the beginning of 2015.
Our backlog has us positioned to deliver expanding sales levels and financial results as we move forward in 2016 and beyond.
A second area where we achieved another high watermark was the generation of over $5 billion in cash from operations achieving a record annual level for the Corporation in this critically important area.
This cash flow is only achieved through the daily efforts and focus of our team in executing on contracts for our customers.
The robust cash generation also enabled us to expand our cash return to stockholders to a record annual level of $5 billion achieved through our industry-leading dividend payout level and ongoing share repurchase activity.
For 2015 share repurchases reduced the year-end outstanding share count to approximately 305 million shares.
We are well on our way to achieve or exceed our goal to reduce outstanding shares to below 300 million by the end of 2017.
Overall the Corporation continue to excel in the attributes we most value providing critical solutions to customers and returning value to stockholders.
Looking beyond 2015 our 2016 guidance outlined today results in increased sales earnings per share and growing cash from operations.
The guidance includes the Sikorsky financials from the recently completed acquisition and also reflects the realignment of our information technology and technical services businesses.
The guidance also assumes continuation of the results for the full year of 2016 from the Information Systems &amp; Global Solutions business identified in our strategic review.
We will adjust our financial outlook later this year when the disposition of IS&amp;GS is completed.
Bruce will provide a detailed review of the guidance and assumptions in his comments and web charts.
Id like to briefly discuss the defense budgets.
Since we spoke last quarter significant uncertainty was removed with the successful completion of a bipartisan agreement of the FY 2016 base DoD budget.
The new budget reflects an annual increase of approximately $25 billion above the previously planned budget level and is also the first increase in annual DoD budgets since 2012.
The budget is a recognition of increasing global security requirements and the need to allocate additional fiscal resources to respond to the threat environment.
A key element in the increased DoD budget is a double-digit annual percentage increase in the investment accounts to fund new equipment procurement and research and development activities.
This strong funding increase will be used to address the acute need to replace aging equipment while ensuring development of key new technologies to respond to evolving security requirements facing domestic and international customers.
As part of the budget we are pleased to see 11 additional F-35 aircrafts added in the FY 2016 omnibus.
This marks the first time in the history of the F-35 program that aircrafts were added to the baseline requests demonstrating strong support for our largest program.
We believe our portfolio of products and new technologies will line-up very well with essential recapitalization actions in the areas of ballistic missile defense tactical missiles and rotary aircrafts.
Id like to now turn to the two strategic actions we announced back in July.
First we were proud to welcome the Sikorsky team to Lockheed Martin with the successful closure of their acquisition on November 6.
Together we will build upon a legacy of innovation and performance that has shaped the history of aviation for more than a century.
This action advances our commitment to provide customers with affordable mission-ready solutions in rotary aircrafts.
Their inclusion will enable us to move forward with our goal to expand our business into the strategically important areas of helicopter production and sustainment.
Since the transaction closure the combined team at Mission Systems and Training have hit the ground running.
We are already seeing accelerated customer interest in both military and search and rescue opportunities emerging in the Middle East Asia and Eastern Europe.
It is increasingly clear that we will be better together as we leverage our combined scale and serve as a technology leader at the forefront of vertical lift.
I am enthusiastic about the opportunities for long-term value creation of this business as we move forward in providing essential products and solutions to customers around the world.
Turning to our second strategic item as announced earlier today we completed the review of our Information Systems &amp; Global Solutions businesses.
That review culminated in our decision to separate and combine our IS&amp;GS business with Leidos in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction.
We are excited about this path forward and believe this is the best fit strategically and will be beneficial to the shareholders of both corporations.
This transaction is an important milestone in the portfolio shaping strategy we announced last July and allows to focus on our core business in aerospace and defense.
The combination of a proven IT and technical services businesses with Leidos will create a more diversified competitor positioned for growth and future success while unlocking value for our stockholders.
This agreement aligned to the IS&amp;GS business with an industry leader in government IT and technical services and will create an enterprise capable of providing unparalleled solutions in industries ranging from national security to health and life sciences.
The complementary portfolios of both companies will create a diversified and balanced business mix with expanded domain expertise increased advantages of scale efficiencies and synergy opportunities.
These benefits will be the foundation to create value for stockholders customers and employees.
One of the important goals in our strategic evaluation of the business was to ensure that the final decision provides a good cultural fit and home for IS&amp;GS employees.
It is my belief that employee morale and opportunities for their growth are key elements in the future success of every enterprise.
Over the last few months during our many interactions with Leidos we have come to know their management and culture and we are confident that this combination fully satisfies our employee goals.
Bruce will speak more about the financial aspects of the transaction and the projected timeline for closure in his remarks.
Id like to end my remarks with a few key operational highlights in the fourth quarter that enabled the Corporation to finish the year on a very strong note.
Starting with the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter we achieved our full year delivery goal of 45 aircrafts to domestic and international customers.
This delivery level reflects our continuing ramp up in production on the program and is a 25% increase above prior year deliveries.
For 2016 w are expecting additional production expansion with planned deliveries increasing to 53 aircrafts.
The team also continued to retire key task on the F-35 development program as we look forward to completing remaining task in 2016 as the development phase winds down.
Switching to the C-130J air lifter multiple highlights were achieved in the quarter with delivery of the 2500<sup>th</sup> aircraft and receipt of the multi-year two contracts that extends the production line into late 2019.
This contract was a portion of the $26 billion in total new contract awards we secured in the quarter and it enabled achievement of a strong book-to-bill ratio for the full year of 2015.
We also made progress on growing our international sales content which grew 6% above prior year levels and expanding the international sales content to 21% of total corporate sales.
Ill close by stating that 2015 was an exceptional year for our Corporation and we implemented both strategic actions to better position the business for operational and financial success.
We secured record new business awards and cash generation both central components to future corporate success and value creation.
Looking forward I am enthusiastic about the future contributions we can provide to customers and stockholders with our enhanced corporate posture.
Ill now turn the call over to Bruce to review our financial performance in more detail outline our 2016 financial guidance and then well open up the lines for your questions.
Thanks Marillyn and good morning everyone.
As I highlight our key financial accomplishments please follow along with the web charts that we included with our earnings release today.
Lets begin with chart 3 and an overview of our results for the year.
Sales for the year were $46.1 billion ahead of our expectations from when we spoke in the third quarter.
Our segment operating margin was also better than expected ending the year at 11.9% and this enabled us to achieve earnings per share of $11.46 for the year.
Cash from operations for the year was our highest ever at $5.1 billion.
We returned $5 billion of cash to our shareholders in the year led by repurchasing 15.2 million shares for $3.1 billion and we grew our backlog significantly to almost $100 million for the integration of Sikorsky into the Corporation.
We will cover all these items in more detail in the coming charts so it was an exceptional year in 2015.
On chart 4 we compare our sales and earnings per share for 2015 with our results in 2014.
Sales were about $0.5 billion higher this year than last year including the addition of about $400 million of sales from Sikorsky for the short period after the close in early November.
Even without the Sikorsky sales we were slightly higher than last years results and better than we had expected when we spoke in October as we had higher volume in several business areas as we closed the year.
Earnings per share were $0.25 higher than last year at $11.46 for the full year and were also higher than the guidance we provided in October driven by the increased sales volume and improved performance.
On chart 5 we will discuss our share repurchase activity we repurchased 15.2 million shares in 2015 nearly 4 million shares more than in 2014 and that brought our shares outstanding at year end to 305 million shares.
This positions us well to achieve our goal of reducing share count below 300 million shares by the end of 2017.
At the end of 2015 we have around 4 million unexercised options which is a significantly lower level than we had several years ago and the announced transaction with Leidos creates the potential to reduce share count by up to 15 million shares upon closure later this year.
If youll turn to chart 6 well review our cash returned to stockholders in 2015.
Our cash from operations as we said earlier was $5.1 billion and with about $900 million in capital expenditures in the year we had $4.2 billion of free cash flow with $1.9 billion in dividends along with a $3.1 billion in share repurchases we returned $5 billion to our stockholders in 2015 the highest amount in our history and this represents a 120% of our free cash flow for the year.
Chart 7 shows our backlog levels over the last five years.
2015 represents the fifth consecutive year that weve ended the year with more than $80 billion in backlog.
Without the addition of Sikorskys backlog 2015 would have still represented the highest backlog level in our history at more than $84 billion and with Sikorsky our backlog is nearly $100 billion.
On chart 8 we discuss our outlook for 2016.
We are expecting sales to be in the range of $49.5 billion to $51 billion and this range includes the realigned IS&amp;GS business area for the entire year as it is our practice not to incorporate adjustments such as our RMT transaction until they have been consummated.
Ill provide more color on the sales ranges by business area in a couple of charts.
Our outlook for segment operating profit is a range of $4.9 billion to $5.50 million and Ill also show you the range by business area in a couple of charts.
Our FAS/CAS adjustment is higher than we provided on the October call and Ill discuss the reasons behind the increase on the next chart.
We expect our earnings per share will be between $11.45 and $11.75 for the year and our outlook from cash from operations is strong again this year at $5.3 billion up from the $5 billion we projected in the October call.
Chart 9 provides a reconciliation of the expected 2016 FAS/CAS adjustment that we discussed in October compared with our current guidance.
We had an actuarial update to the mortality or longevity assumptions that reduced our longevity estimates and results in a lower FAS expense and increased the FAS/CAS benefit by $125 million.
Our prior assessment assumes the discount rate of 4.25  our prior  excuse me  discount rate of 4.25% increased at year end to 4.375% which resulted in a $60 million improvement in the FAS/CAS benefit.
The actual return on our pension assets was a negative 2% rather than the 0% return we expected in October which results in a $40 million reduction in the benefit and with some minor adjustments which improved $20 million we increased the FAS/CAS benefit for 2016 by $165 million to $975 million in total.
Chart 10 provides our sales and segment operating profit outlook by business area for the year and all but Aeronautics have been adjusted since we spoke in October to incorporate the addition of Sikorsky the realignment of the Heritage IS&amp;GS business or in the case of MST both.
Overall sales excluding Sikorsky will be roughly comparable to our level in 2015 although 2015 finished stronger than we had expected and our segment operating profit and margin before the incorporation of Sikorsky is right in line with where we expected it to be when we spoke in October.
I want to draw your attention to MST and the incorporation of Sikorsky into that business area as weve made some significant adjustments to account for purchase accounting and integration which well discuss more on the next page.
Chart 11 captures the adjustments made to Sikorsky outlook for both sales and profit.
Beginning with purchase accounting the largest impact to profit is the incorporation of the non-cash intangible amortization associated with the acquisition which lowers profit by approximately $230 million based on current projections which can change as we finalize our purchase accounting analysis and we impact to both sales and profit by what are called customer inventory rights.
Essentially this recognizes the portion of government contracts that were partially completed by Sikorsky before our purchase and for which Lockheed Martin can only recognize the sales and profit that has occurred since our ownership.
This adjustment reduces sales by $400 million and profit by $30 million and is weighted much more heavily in the first part of the year as you would imagine.
You will notice a similar sales reduction in 2015 described in our earnings release.
Cost to integrate Sikorsky into the Corporation along with the remaining cost to complete the restructuring actions announced by Sikorsky last year before our purchase amount to another $115 million reduction in profit this year.
All told these adjustments reduced sales by around $400 million in profit by $375 million in 2016.
If youll turn to chart 12 we will discuss the impact for the transaction with Leidos that was announced this morning.
Stockholders of Lockheed Martin will receive $5 billion of value for our contributed assets in a very tax-efficient structure.
Just to put some sizing to the tax benefits we would have needed to sell the business for almost $7.7 billion to have created the same after-tax value as the transaction we announced.
At current valuations we would receive the $5 billion in the form of $3.2 billion in equity from Leidos for a 50.5% ownership in the newly formed company and $1.8 billion from a special cash payment to Lockheed Martin.
The $1.8 billion special cash payment is a fixed amount through closing while the equity amount will vary with changes in the value of Leidoss shares until closing.
Because this is structured as a stock split-off an additional benefit we would anticipate is reduction in our share count of up to 15 million shares.
In addition Lockheed Martins stockholders who choose to participate in the split will also benefit from the synergies created by the new company which are expected to be $120 million a year at steady state and because this is anticipated to be a stock split-off we expect to have a significant book gain of more than $1.5 billion at closure.
On chart 13 we show the expected high level impacts on some of our future financial measures after that IS&amp;GS transaction is complete compared to what those results would have otherwise been had we retained the IS&amp;GS business.
We expect our sales growth rate will be higher under the new structure.
GAAP earnings per share should be neutral to slightly positive as the share count reduction from the transaction more than offsets the lost operating profit from IS&amp;GS.
Cash from operations is also expected to be higher as the increase in cash generation from Sikorsky offsets the lost cash generated by IS&amp;GS.
Return on invested capital should be higher after the transaction as a result of using the proceeds to reduce our invested capital base and we expect shares outstanding to be lower because of the stock split-off arrangement.
And at the end of the day we think the new organization better positions the company for long-term growth.
Finally on chart 14 we have our summary.
2015 really was an exceptional performance year particularly given the strategic actions we undertook.
We finished the year strong and we set a very solid foundation for 2016.
We continue to make cash deployment actions with our stockholders in mind and we believe that our portfolio shaping actions have us well positioned for future value creation.
With that we are ready for your questions.
Karen? [Operator Instructions] Our first question for today comes from the line of Rob Stallard from RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Rob.
I think we can start with the F-35.
Marillyn you mentioned what your expectation was for 2016 deliveries of this aircraft.
I dont know what the cadence might be for the few GSP on that given what weve seen in the FY 2016 budget and the export markets and when you might expect this program to move on to a fixed price contract basis? Thank you.
Thanks for the question Rob.
Well as we are looking at deliveries for 2016 53 deliveries as I mentioned in my opening remarks it will grow to roughly 59 or 60 in 2017 and then by 2018 it will be up to roughly 100 aircrafts and then beyond that  so if you look at over those three years its about 250 to 260 aircrafts going forward.
And we really see that the program is getting much more stable as we continue to ramp up.
The LRIP-11 is going to be the last LRIP where we will be a fixed price incentive contract and then we move into production lot one and on and that will likely be from a fixed price.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Thank you very much.
Bruce with all the moving parts would it be possible for you to provide a little bit of a walk between 2015 and 2016 I mean for example you have a couple of restructuring items last  this past year you have a benefit of an R&amp;D tax credit that was offset and now in the upcoming year it wont be offset.
So you kind of have flat earnings but the reality is there is some things that should improve as you go forward.
Yes thanks for the question Howard.
So you hit  this is a very complicated quarter and a very complicated outlook for 2016 because of all the moving parts you just described.
We did have a restructuring event at the end of the last year.
You saw that this is in our MST business.
It amounts to about $67 million.
Think of this is a sort of rightsizing that business post the integration of Sikorsky into MST.
I also mentioned in the chart that shows the adjustments to Sikorsky that we are seeing some carryover what I would call restructuring charges from the actions that were taken at Sikorsky in 2015 before ownership that are somewhat carrying over into 2016.
Those now quite offset each other but its pretty close.
As you said we had the R&amp;D tax credits that occurred at the end of 2015 which benefited us  it wasnt in our outlook until it literally happened in the month of December.
The good news about that is thats now becoming permanent going forward so because it is permanent weve also assumed that in our 2016 outlook.
We had some deal closure costs that also hit 2015 think of that is about roughly $0.09 a share or so I think about $45 million collectively for those sort of transaction costs.
And then 2016 is where it gets complicated.
Weve got  as I said the purchase accounting adjustments for Sikorsky the integration costs for Sikorsky.
So just a lot of moving pieces there.
Its also important to note that as a result of the debt deal that we did to acquire Sikorsky interest expense is somewhere on the magnitude of about $230 million or they are about higher than it was in 2015.
So I hit the  I think most of the sort of the things are changing that are between the years Howard they are probably a couple I left off but I think those are the big drivers.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Hunter Keay from Wolfe Research.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Bruce can you maybe sort of follow-up on some of these  some of the math behind the Sikorsky? Can you maybe help us give a sense for what the actual underlying revenue number is for Sikorsky in 2016 and maybe think about helping us figure out sort of what MST margins would be on sort of a core apples-to-apples basis in 2016 and then maybe beyond that think about maybe a longer-term trajectory for how you can think about getting some efficiencies out of Sikorsky and maybe a little bit of a more stable sales environment and maybe on gas side longer term in that segment? Yes so  all good questions Hunter.
Lets see where should I begin? So Sikorsky because of the adjustments that we talked about for the customer inventory rights I dont think a lot of people necessarily had in their head that there is about a $400 million reduction for sales that occurred before our ownership if you will that are carrying over into 2016.
But that brings the sales down and profit down from what it otherwise could have been.
You should think Sikorsky as being roughly the same size as the realigned IS&amp;GS.
They are kind of both in the $5 billion range if you want to put it in that perspective.
I think you asked about sort of apples-to-apples margins from MST before considering Sikorsky.
Thats a little bit hard to do because as you recall and we talked about this in the opening remarks the realignment of IS&amp;GS really affects four of the five business areas.
So if you put it just on the basis of what Id call the Heritage MST business before the incorporation of the portion of IS&amp;GS thats going into it starting this year its margins are actually fairly comparable to what they were in 2015.
The IS&amp;GS business so think of this is the seed for ISR business that was previously within IS&amp;GS.
That business coming into MST is a little bit margin headwind but it brings it down a little bit.
And then I think you talked about the prospects for Sikorsky going forward I think maybe the easiest way to talk about this  and I should say before I talk about the prospects going forward we tried to capture all this.
I know there is a lot that Ive just said but I think we provide some pretty good insight in our schedules and in the press release that show the realignments to capture all the pieces I just walk through if thats not clear by what I just said.
Sikorsky I think the biggest change that we are seeing from when we announced this deal is the changes and sort of the OEM helicopter sales in the commercial marketplace obviously driven by the oil and gas marketplace as we sit here today.
So I think I had said at the July call that OEM sales for commercial helos had peaked at about roughly $1.5 billion.
This doesnt include the aftermarket sales which a portion after the site but a pure helo sales is about $1.5 billion in 2014 and what I said at the time was we thought because of the oil and gas pressures we thought 2016 would probably half that number.
As it turns out our current outlook is probably half of that number.
So think of that as roughly $375 million or so of commercial helo sales in the year 2016 which  and think of that also as being the highest margin products within the IS&amp;GS portfolio.
So thats some of the pressure that we are seeing.
On the flip side Hunter what Ill tell you is we are already seeing the benefits some of the combinations particularly on the international military side.
Marillyn talked about some of that in her opening remarks and what I would characterize is sort of the paramilitary side.
So think of that is things like coastguard search and rescue and border petrol fleets.
And those are actually we think upside to the plant and upside to the business case as at least we initially look at that.
But those prospects wont impact 2016 and will frankly have much impact even in 2017 if we are successful in closing on those.
And then the last thing Id close with Hunter is the cash prospects going forward we do expect to be much improved in terms of the current level of cash generated by Sikorsky going forward over the next few years and you should think of that primarily as the transition from development programs where we are seeing lower margins therefore lower cash and some different terms associated with that to pure production programs that should be sort of normal cash generating business just like they would be within Lockheed Martin.
Hope that covers the waterfront for you there Hunter? Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Rich Safran from Buckingham Research.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Rich.
Good morning.
Marillyn Bruce a two-part question on logistics programs.
Sometime ago you had talked about assertions against the government for extra work done on the C-5 program this is over and above issues.
I wanted to know if this is the year when you expect that to start to flow through and is that factored into your guide? And second on the C-130J program congrats on the multi-year and extending production to 2019 could you comment if you have the opportunity on that program to get to the same margins you currently have? I am just getting  I was just looking to get a sense of how you see margins trending on the program? Thanks.
Rich Ill take those two.
So we had talked about the C-5 program in the past and the fact that there was some  what we thought were some over and above activities that we build it created some entitlements for some adjustments.
We still believe that to be the case but we have not factored that in our guidance for 2016.
Id love to say its going to happen this year but I am not sure I am that good at predicting the future.
But we do think we still have entitlement there.
So hopefully that helps with that question.
From a C-130 multi-year thanks for the comment relative to getting that done and its good to have that program stretch out to 2019 now.
You asked about do we have the same margin opportunity.
I have described this in other forums where you should think of new multi-years as sort of starting off at a lower initial profit recording rate than probably where we ended the current or older multi-year and contract some of the C-130 programs.
So we will see some  Ill say optically lower margins from a GAAP perspective because we are starting that program lower but at the end of the day and sort of from an economic value perspective we would expect the current multi-year program to have very similar economics and especially similar cash flows even from day one as the previous programs that we completed.
So while a little bit of near-term  Ill say EPS and margin pressure relative to what we have done in years past with prior C-130 deliveries we think at the end of the day the economics for those two programs are comparable.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr from Cowen and Company.
Yes thank you very much and congratulations on the Leidos transaction.
So you report IS&amp;GS part of your numbers that guides approximately $360 million of EBIT.
They are saying it will be higher because they wont have the pension the corporate overhead the home office costs.
How much of those costs which looked like they are about 100 plus million? Are you able to basically cut now that if and when you kind of get rid of IS&amp;GS in that transaction? Yes so Cai Ill take that one.
So we should think of the discussion in what was  what we talked about from the Leidos point of view is this is more of an EBITDA comparison than the EBIT numbers.
The segment EBITDA actually that we are showing for IS&amp;GS so your numbers are right as usual and think of it is about $360 million of segment EBIT from IS&amp;GS this year.
I mean the first adjustment thats made to that to get the EBITDA is obviously to take out the depreciation and amortization.
You should think of those being collectively about $80 million because we have some level of depreciation from the capital assets there but we also have the amortization from previous acquisitions within IS&amp;GS and so that gets you to what about $440 million or so.
That the total EBITDA for this business going into Leidos you should think of it as about in the $500 million-ish range and the delta to go from what I just described from the original EBITDA  segment EBIT plus the depreciation and amortization there is a lot of moving pieces to get to the top but the biggest single one the elimination of the pension costs.
We are repaying those assets and liabilities and therefore that cost reduction is what the other benefit is to get to roughly the $0.5 billion of EBITDA for IS&amp;GS in the new structure.
And Cai thank you for your comments.
We are really excited about the transaction.
So appreciate your congratulations.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Yes good morning.
Good morning.
Bruce I wanted to  couple of things here.
With the 15 million share reduction at closing that looks like it effectively offsets the dilution from IS&amp;GS and so when you go into 2017 with the lower shares you get at least some profitability out of Sikorsky because this year it looks like maybe zero when you include all the amortization.
So why  and you are going to get some growth from the F-35 get some growth from the budget so why wont the GAAP EPS be higher rather than what you say neutral to higher in 2017 and beyond? George I think  my fault  I probably confused speak about the words I chose to use there.
I am not trying to give you an outlook of what 2017 looks like compared to 2016.
So thats not the way to view the words neutral to higher.
Its what would 2017 and beyond look like now after IS&amp;GS versus had we retained IS&amp;GS.
And the words you said are exactly what I intended which is back to Cais comment we are losing think of it as $360 million of profit that you would expect to have a negative earnings per share impact because of this split-off arrangement and the expectation that we get $15 million shares back plus the benefits potentially of the $1.8 billion in cash tax free that well be able to have enough share count reduction to offset the effects of that $360 million or actually its maybe a little more than that.
And thats all we are intending it was not intended to say we expect 2017 EPS to be neutral or higher.
In fact we expect 2017 to be higher than 2016 for all the reasons that you just said.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Seth Seifman from JPMorgan.
Thanks very much and good morning.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about ULA and just quickly talk about whats in there for 2016? But then also talk about your long-term plans it would seem that thats a market thats coming under some pressure as well as one where there is some competition and whether there is going to be any investment required there from Lockheed Martin at any point and just your plans for that market? Yes so really good questions Seth.
This is something obviously its a 50-50 joint venture with Boeing.
So this is probably a question that was better answered from the two partners as opposed to a single partner.
We had some good things happen recently relative to the ability to procure the Russian RD-180 engines and think of those for the civil and commercial marketplace.
That activity is very strong.
We are seeing some benefits actually from the cargo  the CRS Ive lost track with the acronym stands for the crew re-supplier cargo re-supply mission where two of the three vehicles are  its currently slated to be launched by Atlas Vehicles.
So thats helping us.
We have some kind of bridge we think to get to the ability to have developed an American engine if you will to replace the RD-180.
Right now it is not our expectation that that will require contributions from the parents but thats something that we got to work out sort of between our partner and the US government to ensure that.
As you know and as you read we have had some commercial development activity on the engine front and we are watching that closely and see how that place out.
But you should not think this is requiring large contributions from a developmental perspective to develop that engine going forward.
I think you also asked about the earnings in 2016 maybe compared to 2017.
You should think of those maybe down a little bit but actually fairly comparable year-over-year between what we had in 2015 and what we expect in 2016.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Arment from Sterne Agee.
Yes.
Good morning Marillyn Bruce.
Hi Peter.
Hey Bruce I guess a clarification back to Sikorsky.
The long-term target on the synergies was $150 million when you originally announced the deal but given some of the pressures on the energy side some of the restructuring they announced is that still a good number? What's the timeline we should be thinking about that? Thanks Bruce.
Yes so Peter good question.
That is still very much the plan and the expectation and thats  that is the work that the MST team is doing now.
Last year it was sort of spent in the integration mode bringing Sikorsky onboard and making sure everything can happen from the IT services to making payroll and alike.
2016 is very much focused on creating synergies and capturing those synergies.
I had said in the  in our October call we thought we could have about $150 million sort of steady state runrate.
That occurs probably in the 2018 timeframe.
Again we are seeing a lot of the integration costs occurring in 2016 thats dampening that a bit.
But the runrate is still what we expect and as I have said  and I think on previous calls we would expect sort of the retained portion of that runrate to go down a little bit over time as we give some portion of that back to our US government on the contracts.
But at the same time we expect to start getting revenue synergies from the combination some of which I talked about earlier on  in terms of the international military markets that will maintain that $150 million synergy runrate going forward.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Rob Springarn from Credit Suisse.
Hi good morning.
Hi Rob.
I want to just take a high level look at sales and I think you said that ex Sikorsky you're kind of flattish for the year and I guess there is a 1% headwind here from IS&amp;GS.
But perhaps you could talk at a high level about what's happening in space and I guess core MST and I guess a little bit in MFC to drive sales down in a year that the budget is inflecting understanding that there is some lag there but why we don't see better growth in 2016? And then one clarification Bruce on the 300 million share count you don't just get there by the RMT but you are planning to continue to buyback stock with some consistency from what you did in 2015? Yes so Ill answer that first.
So we are really really close I mean it sort of depends on what you assume in terms of how the stock price is moving and so forth.
But you should think of the RMT benefits from a share count exchange is just about getting us back to neutral and we would expect again to use at least some portion of that $1.8 billion to make up the rest and maybe there is some more on top of that Rob.
Okay.
Relative to  I think you asked about the maybe three of the business areas MST missile and fire controls and space systems for whats going on in 2016 maybe compared to 2015.
I talked a little bit about this in the October call and really nothing has changed other than weve again but weve moved pieces around because of the realignment of IS&amp;GS.
But at a very high level you should think of the missile and fire control being lower than 2015 again weve realigned that business to remove the tech service business that was there.
But sort of the core or heritage missile and fire control is lower again because we expect lower  what I would describe as in-theater demand for programs like the GMLRS the missiles javelin and some of the fire control programs.
And you should think of that as  again this is reflecting a reduction in OCO funding for some of that in-theater activity that is very quick turn business to us.
So even though we are talking about the procurement accounts going up we dont expect that to offset in 2016 for missiles and fire control.
MST the current outlook really makes kind of a  for a hard comparison.
So its got Sikorsky for the full year in 2016 versus less than two months in 2015.
The heritage  I think I have talked about this sort of the heritage MST business has slight growth.
2016 over 2015 which reflects the continuing ramp up of some of the programs that were won in 2015 for that matter in 2014 and the realigned C-4 ISR business that I talked about earlier from IS&amp;GS is expected to have sales reductions from the 2015 level for that business that are probably comparable to what is currently shown for the realigned IS&amp;GS business in total.
So thats sort of whats brining the combined if you will MST without Sikorsky to the levels that we are seeing.
And then Space Systems  Space Systems is sort of a good news bad news.
A little bit lower funding for things like Orion and the fleet ballistic missile programs but the main reason is because of lower government satellite activity in 2016 and 2015.
Thats a good news story because that says each incremental satellite that we are selling to the US government is costing less than the previous ones.
We are doing about the same volume in terms of numbers of satellites but our programs to reduce costs are paying off and each one is subsequently cheaper and thats what we are seeing within Space Systems.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning Myles.
One clarification if I could Bruce on the purchase accounting; just what the trend-line looks like into 2017 and 2018 of Sikorsky but on the real question cash flow utilization in 2016 it sounds like maybe some of this is implied to go to debt pay down or reduction otherwise it looks like you are building up your net cash balance or you could do a repurchase that is well in excess of the $1.8 billion.
Obviously that's the dividend you are getting back.
It sounds like otherwise it is a pretty wholesome debt pay down or a lot of optionality on further repurchase.
Where is your thinking on that? Yes so Myles you should think we have about  its not quite but a little less than $1 billion.
I think $945-ish million of debt or the maturity is coming this year in two different tranches.
So we are going to pay that debt down.
So think of that is about  again roughly a little bit less than $1 billion use of cash.
The trend on purchase accounting going forward the customer lien rights that we talked about those are essentially through at the end of 2016.
In fact I think they end up in the third quarter of this year.
So even the fourth quarter is clean from sort of the reduction associated with that and thats both on the sales and the profit.
So the only one that will sort of carry over year-over-year is the intangible amortization.
Again as I said in my opening remarks thats kind of subject to little bit of a bouncing around between now and about a year after closures so its purchase accounting adjustments net out.
But we think right now its about $230 million a year.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ron Epstein from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Ron.
Just - maybe a big picture question for Marillyn.
When we think about Sikorsky what do you think Lockheed can do with Sikorsky that United Technologies couldn't? Like what do you guys bring to that party that it was being starved of or whatever? How do you really create a lot of value with this thing that wasn't being created before? Well thanks for the question Ron.
I mean I mean if you look at how Sikorsky is aligned with our portfolio weve been doing business with Sikorsky for the past 40 years with the mission systems that weve put in place into the platform.
So right off the bat with that opportunity we think that weve got some opportunities and cycle time reduction and some synergies that come with that.
And then in addition to that thats our customer base where we sell Sikorsky as the same customer base where we are selling in the balance of our portfolio it broadens our opportunity both in the domestic and international marketplace.
It just gives us the broader opportunity to sell into those marketplaces.
So I see that as an opportunity.
And then we have excellent expertise in doing business with the Department of Defense and with other governments around the world and the work that we do in our international business development what we do with our government affairs here in the US we believe we can make that piece of business better by bringing it into Lockheed Martin and its an area that we bring expertise and capability in that again allows us to do that our customer relationships our understanding of doing business with the US government our understanding of doing business around the world is what we bring to that.
We also  I think understand government contracting to a great extent and we bring the expertise of our folks to that.
So a lot of areas of synergy and a lot of that is represented and some of the things that Bruce was talking about in terms of both cost and revenue synergies.
The runrate synergies that we have in that since and then Bruce if you want to add anything along that line? Yes the other thing that we bring is maybe a little different focus especially the  Ill say the negotiation of government contracts  at least as we look at that some of the terms and conditions I think well do some different ones going forward especially as they relate to cash.
And so I would like to think that going forward we will be a stronger cash generator under our ownership than what it was previously.
And in doing that I dont think there is any sort of like difficult to do things its just sort of getting them in this case being Sikorsky in parallel to what we do with all the other business within Lockheed Martin.
So we know the game plan.
We know the playbook.
We just have to sort of execute it with Sikorsky.
The only other thing I would add is as I said in the past we aligned well with them in terms of focus on innovation and technology.
We are always looking beyond a day and at the rotary wing area is one that is in great demand and one that we want to continue to invest in the research and development to bring better and new innovation to those platforms.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about what is happening in the international markets right now have you seen any slowdown from the Mid East and kind of the key awards to watch this year? And then Bruce do you expect to have a relatively flat backlog or should we start to see you eat into that a little bit this year? Well let me just pick up on that the international interest.
We continue to have growing international interest for our programs particularly in the area of missile defense and in the Middle East and Asia-Pacific and even in Europe where Germany has selected MEADS as their missile defense capability and Aegis Ashore so that is an expanding demand.
We continue to see that with some of the current conflict in the Middle East we are seeing some of our ammunitions and things of that nature that there is a continued desire for our targeting PODs and other things that they need in the current conflict.
F-35 on the international front it will continue to ramp up.
There is a strong interest of growth in those sales in fact in the next five years about 50% of the orders will come from the international marketplace.
And then I know that there is lot of interest in terms of oil prices.
We are not seeing a lot of pullback on expenditures on national security.
Certainly oil prices affect our sale of commercial rotary wing but in the balance of our business well it does put some pressure on budgets in the countries that are buying national security assets and things that they need to protect their citizens.
The choices that they are making are on cutting in other areas so that they hey can protect their citizens and so we are seeing a big damper on that it maybe some things that will slip out a little bit or they might reduce the volume on the near-term but they are still going to buy the products and capabilities and technologies they need to enable them to protect their citizens and to deal with their security issues.
Yes so Sam on the question relative to backlog and would it be flat.
The short answer is no.
We would expect to see a reduction by the end of this year.
And you should really think of thats coming primarily from two business areas.
MST well have  and when I say down we are talking probably somewhere less than $5 billion down maybe $4 billion and probably half or so of that is MST.
The bulk of which of that is for Sikorsky.
As you might expect we are having sales that are coming out of backlog from prior years.
Orders that are not being replaced because of the  particularly the commercial business I talked about earlier with new orders.
Second one is space also down pretty  about half of that number as well and thats just the timing of orders.
We had some very good orders in the past few years that are playing out the sales and we dont have quite the size including the Orion order a few years back and we are not seeing those orders replicated that they are translating into sales as we speak here.
So the big orders we are watching this year not a lot of  frankly not a lot of large competitive orders that we are chasing this year.
The biggest orders we are looking for are the  sort of the follow-on F-35 orders in particular lot 10 and finalization of lot 9 and a lot of the ancillary contracts that go with both of those LRIPs.
So thats a big chunk of it.
The biggest single international order that we are watching probably is a THAAD order with Qatar.
And we have other air missile defense programs kind of scattered throughout the region but not nearly at the same size as we are seeing in Qatar.
But thats the driver of the biggest international orders prospects as we see 2016.
Karen I think we got time for one more question.
Thank you.
And our final question for today comes from the line of Joe DeNardi from Stifel.
Hey thanks for squeezing me in.
Bruce just on aeronautics margins going forward can you just talk about given the booking rate increases you had on F-35 how dilutive to segment margins is that program and when is inflection point for margins within that segment and then just directionally how should we think about FAS/CAS in 2017 at this point? Yes Joe let me try to capture those and then  and my thoughts on that.
Aeronautics margin as I said on the October call there is really two reasons for that that are driving them below 2015.
The first one being as I call the dilutive effects of the F-35 program even though the margins on F-35 are increasing year-over-year there is still lower than the overall composite rate for Aeronautics and thats bringing the rate down slightly.
The other reason primarily was the C-130 impact that I think Rich was talking about relative to the  sort of the conversion of older C-130 contracts and now booking sales under a new multi-year  again economically I dont see a lot of difference between the two but from a sort of a GAAP reporting perspective well expect to have sort of a lower starting margin on the new multi-year than the ending margin on the previously negotiated C-130 contracts.
And those two are what are kind of bringing down the margins of Aeronautics in 2016 compared to 2015.
I do think  I think you asked about whats the prospects going forward.
I think 2016 is sort of the bottom point if that makes sense relative to the margins of Aeronautics.
And we would expect to see slow improvements going forward every year primarily as we see the sort of getting to a  Ill say an ordinary production program on the F-35 program starts to take effect as well as the inevitable increases on C-130 because we are starting off at a lower booking rate that we are right now.
I think you asked about 2017 FAS/CAS I would expect it to be  and look I always hesitate to talk about next year.
There is so many moving pieces in FAS/CAS but if we were just sort of current course and speed its always the way Id like to describe that we are about $975 million a day.
Its probably in the $450 million higher next year if we were to strike a line today but obviously a lot of things can change between now and the end of the year.
So let me just wrap up the call for today and summarize the year and how we are looking at the business going forward.
I want to end by reiterating that the Corporation completed an extraordinary 2015 strategically and financially and the performance of our team continues at a very high level even amid our bold strategic actions that we took to position the business for future growth.
As we are looking into 2016 our record backlog coupled with increasing DoD budget has the Corporation positioned for a bright future of top-line growth and increasing cash flows.
Through the focus dedication and integrity we continue to deliver on our commitments to customers and stockholders.
So again thank you for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to speaking with you in our next earnings call in April.
Karen that concludes our call today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now log off and disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!