Good morning and thank you for joining Lincoln Financial Group's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to the Vice President of Investor Relations Jim Sjoreen.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good morning and welcome to Lincoln Financial Financial's first quarter earnings call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about liquidity and capital resources premiums deposits expenses and income from operations are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln's website at www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to the most comparable GAAP measures.
Presenting on today's call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis.
Thanks Jim and good morning.
In aggregate we had another good quarter of operating results.
Gross deposits of $5 billion plus and net flows of $1.4 billion were both up in the 12% to 13% range and along with rising equity markets drove account balances to $162 billion up 11%.
Interest margins across lines are strong.
Life and Annuity mortality margins were very strong and our G&amp;A expense ratio improved modestly over the fourth quarter.
Operating revenues of $2.7 billion were up 7%.
We were a little more aggressive on capital management repurchasing $75 million of equity during the quarter about the same amount as we did all of last year.
In summary strengthening fundamentals steady to somewhat improving margins and capital management drove the strong ongoing operating earnings that we reported.
Net income per share came in close to operating income as we saw less investment loss hedge fluctuation and other noise.
Looking at the pieces sales in our individual Life Insurance business of $159 million were up 12% over the year ago quarter driven by our well rounded product portfolio and multichannel distribution system.
MoneyGuard's sales helped overall growth benefiting from increased shelf space and wholesaler support.
Other recent actions to strengthen the Life business and build sales included repricing our survivorship product and increasing our maximum mortality retention for new business.
Turning to annuities.
Individual Annuity sales were up 16% over the prior year quarter with VA sales up 17%.
Our strategy in the Annuity market is to lead with strong distribution maintain a diverse suite of products that provide good consumer value but not the most aggressive features and to remain consistently in the market.
As an example our living benefit guarantees remained among the lowest of those offered by top-selling VA writers a solid guarantee that provides good consumer value.
Also we have been ranked in the top 5 for VA sales since 2006 and we are the only top VA provider that is also ranked in the top 5 for indexed annuities.
Less rich and well priced VA product features lower the product's risk.
Multiple products and distribution reach allow us to pivot to the best solution for the consumer in different market environments and market consistency pays off in better profitability and stronger distribution relationships.
We continue to make progress on this strategy in the quarter.
We launched our repriced income rider introduced a fee-based variable product into a major planning firm prepared for our second quarter launch of VA long-term care and substantially enhanced our B2B technology for fixed and indexed annuities in the wider channel.
Our Defined Contribution business produced a solid quarter with account balances of more than $40 billion with total deposits up 3% over the prior year period and positive net flows.
Net flows in this business fluctuate based on the timing of larger plans rolling onto our platform and rolling off over the course of the year and we expect that to continue in 2011.
We are implementing our strategic investment plan in DC including building out distribution support for our small- and mid- to large market business and we'll begin to add plans to our new recordkeeping platform in the fourth quarter.
We believe these investments will increasingly contribute to DC's results through 2011 and 2012.
We saw some good progress on the Group business.
Nonmedical net earned premiums grew by 7% and we saw improvement in our disability loss ratios in the quarter.
For example our long-term disability incident rate was the lowest that we have seen in the last 4 quarters.
We are continuing to manage to better overall loss ratios through renewal and new business price increases and extra resources in our claims management area.
Sales were somewhat softer overall tracking slower group protection sales industry-wide.
We expect muted sales near term in the current economic environment.
We continue to build out capabilities that will position this business to take advantage of opportunity in the voluntary benefits including introducing new products enhancing the sales team structure and transitioning to a leading edge technology platform.
Turning to distribution.
At Lincoln Financial Distributors we continue to execute our growth strategy by focus on increasing the number of advisers who recommend Lincoln solutions increasing wholesaler productivity and attracting top talent to LFD.
We saw a good success in each of these areas in the first quarter including attracting additional advisers to Lincoln and achieving a 10% increase in wholesaler productivity the eighth straight quarter of productivity improvement at LFD.
Our strategic expansion efforts including fee for partner relationships new firms and targeted wholesaler expansion will continue to generate lift throughout the year.
Lincoln Financial Network continues to grow its population of experienced advisers with a total of more than 8 000.
The consistent ability to retain top advisers and also attract new adviser's has enabled LFN to contribute a meaningful portion of Lincoln Life and Annuity sales throughout both challenging and favorable market cycles.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We continue to hold ample capital and liquidity to support investment in growing our franchise and returning capital to shareholders.
Overall investment credit quality is good and we have taken steps to reduce credit risk at the margin by rotating into higher-rated securities as we wait for further signs of recovery.
Overall I am pleased with our progress and momentum in the first quarter.
I'm confident that our franchise strength our healthy fundamentals and ability to execute along with active capital management position Lincoln for a strong year.
With that I will now turn the call over to Randy for more detail on earnings and the balance sheet.
Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of $349 million or $1.08 per share for the first quarter.
Overall the quarter's strong results reflect on key themes that we have discussed in recent quarters: First that execution of the business model and tailwinds from the capital markets will and are driving strong results across many areas including deposits and flows investment income equity-based fees and an improving and solid risk profile; second that our consistent approach to selling and distributing high-quality products with strong risk and return profiles is benefiting the bottom line; and third that a strong capital position is allowing us to become more proactive with our capital management activities.
Strengthened investments and underwriting were the major contributors to $0.14 per share of earnings outperformance.
The main contributors to the strong performance were detailed in the press release and I will not be repeating them as I go through business unit results.
Turning to interest spreads.
Spreads across all businesses benefited from strong income from alternative investments and prepays.
Excluding that impact I described spreads as solid.
And while spreads will not be a tailwind as we move forward I do believe that any downside is very manageable.
Consolidated return on equity for the quarter was 11.5% or about 10% after adjusting for the favorable earnings results up from 9.5% from 2010.
I'll speak to our segment ROE performance throughout my comments without the impact of corporate actions that is excluding goodwill leverage and excess capital.
Overall a very strong and positive beginning to 2011 demonstrating strength and growth throughout the company.
Turning to segment results and starting with annuities.
Positive flows in markets produced another strong quarter driving a 14% increase in total account balances to a record $88 billion and a 16% increase in revenues over the prior year quarter.
The Annuity business reported a return on equity of 23% 20% after normalizing earnings and up from 19% in 2010.
In our Defined Contribution business strong deposits in markets drove account value and revenue growth of 10% over the prior year quarter.
The DC business reported a very strong return in equity of 18% 15% after normalizing earnings and in line with our long-term expectations.
Turning to our Life Insurance segment.
Earnings drivers performed as expected with Life Insurance in-force up 4% and account balances up 6% quarter-over-quarter.
The Life business reported a return on equity of 11% 10% after normalizing earnings and in line with our near-term expectations.
Turning to the Group Protection segment.
Nonmedical net earned premium grew 7% a solid result as some of the factors that are contributing to a challenging sales environment benefit in-force premiums.
The nonmedical loss ratio of 74% is down from last year's first quarter ratio of 75% and a full year 2010 ratio of 76%.
LTD incidence rates which have been driving elevated loss ratios came in at 3.95 per thousand in the first quarter up from 3.57 in the first quarter of 2010 but down from 4.36 in the fourth quarter.
While we continue to watch this key metric and manage it closely we are encouraged by the improvement.
Group Protection reported a return on equity of 11% somewhat below our long-term expectations but up nicely from the 2010 full year ROE of 8%.
Expense ratios in the first quarter improved over 2010 levels.
As we move through the remainder of 2011 we do expect expense ratios to increase primarily the result of growth in strategic investment-related spends across the company.
We estimate the impact at $0.01 to $0.02 per share when compared to the first quarter.
Let me wrap up with a few comments on risk management and capital and liquidity.
Pre-DAC and pretax net realized gains or losses on investments of $6 million for the quarter were down from $59 million in the prior year quarter.
Current quarter losses were focused in lower-rated RMBS and CMBS securities.
While some ongoing stress will likely continue in these asset classes we expect any stress to be at very manageable levels.
The variable annuity hedge program continued its history of strong performance and ended the quarter with hedge assets of $750 million well in excess of the hedge liability of $175 million.
Estimated RBC increased from year end levels of 491% to approximately 500% supported once again by improving credit quality and continued capital generation.
Total adjusted capital of $7.2 billion was up nearly $100 million for the quarter after taking dividends to the holding company of $150 million.
Quarter end net liquidity at the holding company was approximately $700 million level with the year end amount and in excess of our targeted level of $500 million.
During the quarter we continued our capital redeployment activities with the repurchase of $75 million of common stock.
Looking ahead we expect to commit another $100 million to $150 million to buybacks over the remainder of 2011 as our businesses continue to generate free cash flow and as the environment continues to stabilize.
All in all a good quarter and a healthy position for the company at the start of the second quarter.
Earlier I referenced our improving and solid risk profile.
Before we move to Q&amp;A let me provide some proof points around that comment without getting too exhaustive.
As we have moved through and out of the financial crisis we have repriced and restructured two of our key product lines UL and VA to reflect the market conditions and capital dynamics; adjusted our long-term assumptions on equity markets and interest rates establishing DAC and reserves at conservative levels when compared to current markets; extended financing under our corporate credit facilities into 2015 and reduced its usage in support of reserve financing by approximately $1 billion; continued to allocate capital in support of the VA hedge program; opportunistically reduced risk in the general account by the purchases to higher quality securities and selling out of our more volatile holdings on pricing strength; and finally we have built our capital and liquidity position to absorb strep conditions without disrupting ratings.
Importantly we've been able to accomplish all of these things while at the same time making strategic investments in our business model.
With that let me turn the call over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Suneet Kamath of Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> My question is on capital redeployment.
I guess the -- Randy's comment about the $100 million to $150 million of incremental buybacks in the balance of the year would obviously put you above what your original guidance was which I think was $125 million through the end of 2011.
So my question is given the increase in buybacks should we sort of take off the table in our minds any potential increase to the common stock dividend over the 2011 time frame? Suneet just on that last question we first of all want to register that we believe in increasing the dividend over time when appropriate.
So that's certainly a goal for Lincoln.
We make our annual dividend decision and that's a board decision in November.
And so we certainly won't be making any decision before that time.
Again our hope is and our intention is to continue to increase the dividend.
Suneet on the capital deployment we have upped our previous guidance.
Of our original guidance which total $125 million over 15 months we've accomplished $100 million.
We have now guided to an additional $100 million to $150 million so essentially a doubling to a little more than a doubling of where we were before.
That's consistent with the businesses that continue to generate free cash flow.
We continue to see improvement in the overall economy general economic conditions and it makes us more comfortable contributing more of this capital to activities like share buybacks.
And so as we continue to see those dynamics in place continued capital generation continued improvement in the economy we'll continue to look to these sorts of capital activities.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
And my follow-up question again on the buybacks is so as we think about the remaining three quarters should we sort of expect that buyback pattern to be fairly even across those three quarters or sort of like you did in the first quarter perhaps an acceleration earlier in the year to sort of benefit from a timing perspective in terms of equity in the share count? Yes.
I think it's dependent on market conditions.
But let's start with the assumption that it will be leveled and we'll go from there as conditions evolve.
The next question is from Steven Schwartz of Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> A couple if I will.
A lot of things going on in the VA market with deferral bonus rates changing risk charges changing whatever and of course you de-risked yours a bit.
I'm just interested the sales were -- your VA sales were very good.
Dennis do you have a sense of maybe what your market share looked like? Do you think you picked up any or just kind of went along with the group? Steven the numbers aren't out yet so I don't know if we've picked up market share or not.
But let me say that this is not a business where we're really focused on market share.
Now you can build a lot of market share very quickly as -- but you can do that if you have very aggressive features.
And as we continue to repeat we're not going to do that.
So I would say that we're very pleased with the growth and we have a lot of runway for further growth in the VA business.
And we're selling product and features on our terms that we think are good values to the consumer and a good risk-reward proposition for our shareholders.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then if I could just stick with the annuities for a sec Dennis you mentioned it twice index annuities.
I think that's twice more than normal.
I think -- I'm kind of interested maybe if you could tell us what you think you're going to be doing in the broker dealer channel.
That's kind of a holy grail of that market.
So I'd be interested in kind of how you plan on attacking that.
Yes.
First of all let me state once again we have very well structured indexed annuity products and so much so that I think we're one of a few and perhaps the only manufacturer that are currently in the wirehouses.
And that's a recent development at the wirehouses wirehouses which sell this product.
It's a good product because it provides downside protection 100% downside protection and depending on market conditions can provide a pretty comparable upside potential.
So we're going to stay in the market.
It's a good product.
And again it's part of our overall comprehensive portfolio of annuities.
And again we continue to make investments in all of the products.
This product is again something that's more popular with some distribution systems right now and that's why we've mentioned it.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then if I may the product in the BDs are you looking at a registered product or unregistered? Unregistered product.
Next question is from Jay Gelb of Barclays Capital.
Good.
Two questions.
First could you give us a bit more sense on why the group disability loss ratio improved so much versus 4Q? I think it went from 78% to 70% a big improvement there.
And then if you can also just kind of square up your ROE expansion outlook for the rest of 2011.
On the loss ratio front it was really driven by the incidence rates.
So as these incidence rates have come down you'll see a comparable decrease in the loss ratio.
That's really the primary driver.
I think as we said last quarter this has been all about incidence rates which we believe are linked to the economy in total.
So as we continue to see the economy stabilizing I would anticipate that you would continue to see that improvement in those incidence rates.
Yes.
On ROE I wouldn't say there's any dramatic change in our expectation.
We've continued to keep this as one of our highest priorities.
Increases as we've said on several occasions are going to be resulting from an increase in the mix of business to higher ROE business.
New business ROEs are stronger than in-force capital redeployment and margin management.
And we're very pleased with what was a little bit of an acceleration in the first quarter of our expectations.
And frankly I hope we can continue to see that kind of improvement.
Are you thinking about that 10% normalized that we saw in the first quarter or more like 11% sort of as reported? I'm thinking about the 10% normalized which is up 50 basis points from the fourth quarter.
Our next question is from Jimmy Bhullar of JPMorgan.
Just first one Dennis on your remarks on just the potential buybacks over the rest of the year is it fair to assume that the M&amp;A pipeline looks relatively dry if you are buying back this much stock? Well let me answer the question about the pipeline.
I don't think in the financial services industry broadly speaking or at least in the Insurance business there's not a lot of activity right now.
Having said that as we all know Fred is spending a large majority of him time trying to find opportunities.
So when I think about share buybacks just to get back to the share buybacks or acquisitions share buybacks are really more about ongoing generation of free capital than they are anything else.
And so if you've heard Randy say this our increase in our share buyback program has to do with improving fundamentals in our core businesses and therefore increasing cash flow or at least better comfort in our free cash flow at the holding company.
Okay.
And then just a question on your -- in the Group Insurance business maybe if you can talk about what drove the margins in the group life and then to lower and then also just competitive environment in that business given that your sales were relatively weak if you could talk about competition in the Group Insurance market.
Maybe I'll ask Mark Konen who's sitting next to me to give a little more in-depth answer to that.
I would say that just at a high level the group market is industry-wide weak.
And on the loss ratios Randy's already addressed the issue of LTD incidents being better this quarter than in the last four.
So at a high level those are observations.
And maybe Mark you'd want to add to that? Sure.
Jimmy just a couple of detailed points on your specific question.
First on dental.
Dental as you might expect if you think about that product line has a degree a fair degree of seasonality to it in which the first quarter and to some extent the second quarter are the highest usage quarters for that product.
So you'll see the loss ratio spike up in the first quarter and than come down over the balance of the year in a normal year.
And that's what I think what drove the dental loss ratio up this quarter.
If you compare it to first quarter 2010 we did see some improvement in the loss ratio year-over-year which is something we've been working on in the dental line.
On the Life business again the Life mortality was pretty good.
But what also comes through that line is because of the peculiarities of how the accounting works is life waiver which again is driven by disability and disability incidents and that was slightly elevated.
Okay.
And just on -- and then lastly just -- as you are transitioning to a new technology platform I think later this year in the DC business should we expect your sales to be weak as a result of that? Or should that have any -- should there be any disruption in your business in terms of inflows as a result of this? Yes.
It's interesting.
There's really two reactions in the marketplace.
One is very happy to see the improvement in technology and we want to be part of it.
And a lot of the sales cycles are 6 months long.
So by the time  -- and mid- to large case in particular by the time you get the sales and the money in we can be putting it onto that platform.
Little -- on the other side of that coin little people that want to -- a little sentiment about waiting to see.
So on balance we don't think it is a negative or a significantly positive issue for our sales for the balance of the year.
Our next question is from Ed Spehar of Bank of America.
Dennis I wanted to go back to the dividend and just I guess if I look historically Jefferson Pilot and Lincoln both had very high dividend payout ratios versus the payout today I think on the run rate earnings that we would come to for this quarter would be about 5%.
So if we're looking at -- if we think that the marginal returns in your business are close to the high levels that Randy cited and I think you'd probably agree that the overall secular earnings growth rate for this business is in the single digits.
Can you tell us why wouldn't the dividend payout ratio be potentially five or six times the current level and why wouldn't we be potentially getting to that type of number fairly quickly? Everything you say is true on a historical basis Ed so you're right about those things.
I'll come back to what drives in our mind the level of dividend and that is free cash flow at the holding company.
And right now we have approximately $300 million of free cash flow at the holding company.
We expect that to grow over time but that's what drives dividend.
So you can see there is more room there.
And when we absorb that amount of room the timing of that again is a director's decision.
But let me reinforce my point which is we think growing the dividend is an important objective for the firm.
Could you talk about what you think the normalized if we think going forward what the normalized level of free cash flow at the holding company is relative to your GAAP earnings level? Well let me ask Randy to do that.
But let me just -- before I ask him to do that it's both spent well.
It's statutory income as a percentage of GAAP income and then there are some other pieces.
And let me just turn it over to Randy.
Randy? Sure.
Ed if you look at cash flows at the holding company we generate on an annual basis about $700 million of cash from our operating companies.
And as Dennis mentioned the cash needs primarily from interest expense run right at about $300 million or a little above that.
That gives you as Dennis mentioned free cash flow in that $300 million to $400 million range which is used to support things like dividends things like share buybacks things like delevering which is a theme we've talked about in recent quarters and I think a theme we'll continue to talk about some more delevering as we move forward.
When you look at what drives that with GAAP earnings running in the $1.2 billion $1.3 billion range you're talking about free cash flows above about 25% of that.
When you look at the stat earnings which ultimately drive the amount of cash inside your holding company I think we're still consistent with what we've always said which is we have stat earnings running about 60% to 70% of our overall GAAP earnings.
I guess Randy when you talk about delevering though why couldn't you use -- I think you've talked about maybe 400 RBC being the kind of the new target.
Why couldn't you use the I guess that would be about 1 point the $1.5 billion or something of -- $1.4 billion of capital above what you are telling us that is the sort of required level? Right so let's talk about excess capital.
Based upon a 400% RBC and a holding company liquidity requirement of $500 million calculates out to $1.6 billion.
I believe that over time that we are going to move towards those levels.
But there is going to be an interim period where we're going to operate at a high level for a couple of reasons.
It's a fact that we are only a short time from one of the worst financial crises since this Great Depression when capital markets shut down and a number of other things occurred.
So we are as I mentioned not that far from that point in time.
And it's reasonable in my opinion to sort of continue to watch those markets recover and stabilize a little more before you move ultimately to that final level.
And then there's the additional item of the rating agencies whose views are also somewhat slow to respond which really isn't surprising with what the financial industry experienced.
Their views are going to evolve just like I think our views will evolve.
And they'll meet at some point in time as I mentioned in or around 400% RBC and $500 million of holding company liquidity for a company like Lincoln.
And let me just come back again I want to reemphasize that better -- increasing our capital management activity is a goal and the better economy that we're in and continuing good results which we expect at the company will accelerate our perspective on that on capital management.
Our next question is from John Nadel of Sterne Agee.
I have two questions: one on mortality and the other on capital.
I'll beat the dead horse.
But my question on mortality which was favorable in both your Life and Annuity business this quarter is it just a function of the right people are living longer in one business and not to be too morbid but dying sooner in the other? I mean I guess would you characterize that as a normal fluctuation in the results or are you perhaps seeing some maybe some impact in the Life Insurance side from a more active life settlement market now? No we don't see any impact from the life settlement market.
No but you're exactly right.
I mean the impact in the quarter which is positive in both Life and Annuities indicates that mortality moved in a favorable way in both segments which is exactly opposite right? And we are unfavorable for the wrong people yes.
Right so it's just one of those quarters.
Okay all right.
And then let me go about the capital question maybe a little bit differently maybe perhaps the opposite perspective of Jimmy earlier.
If I level set for that ultimate 400% risk-based capital ratio target it looks like today you're sitting at around $2 billion of excess capital between the life company and the holding company.
And I know you've got some level of capital both at the life company and the holding company that you want to keep but my question is when we look at and we look at the capital generation from ongoing earnings compare that with your buybacks of $100 million to $150 million from here should we take that to mean that you actually do see something some other competing use for excess capital over the intermediate term? Not really no.
Okay.
So this is just we were all around the boardroom table not 18 24 months ago trying to figure out if the world was going to survive? Yes.
John let's go to your numbers.
I think you mentioned $2 billion.
And as I mentioned just mathematically it's $1.6 billion based upon 400% RBC on the life company and $500 million of liquidity at the holding company.
So let's start there.
Okay okay.
So $2.1 billion -- and I calculate $2.1 billion take out the $500 million.
Okay got it.
Correct.
Our next question is from Chris Giovanni of Goldman Sachs.
A couple questions on DAC.
I just wanted to get an update in terms of where you're sitting in regards to the DAC corridor and then also if you guys have done any early work in terms of quantifying what the potential impact is of adoption of EITF 09-G.
Yes.
On those 2 items on the corridor looking at the variable annuities I'd estimate the after-tax impact in the $200 million to $250 million range right now.
[Technical Difficulty] Our next question is from Thomas Gallagher of Crédit Suisse.
I'm not sure what happened there but just had a question about where you're pricing business today.
I know there was a discussion about having repriced variable Annuity business and universal Life business.
Are you still pricing products at a 350 RBC or has that bar been raised to 400? And if so how do we think about you eventually getting to ROE targets if there's still a disconnect between how much you hold versus where you're pricing? [Technical Difficulty] So I guess first question is just to reiterate Chris's question on 09-G what you see as a potential impact there whether you've done any early work.
The second question is just an update on -- I know you've repriced some universal Life business some variable Annuity business.
Are you still pricing it at a 350 RBC? And if so how do you reconcile that between holding high 400s RBC? And eventually what does that do to your ROE? And do you need to get down to a 350 RBC in order to hit your ROE targets? Tom first on the 09-G this is obviously a very important accounting change and we do have a full team working on this very topic.
I don't anticipate it will be until later in the year until we're talking more fully about numbers.
But I really do not expect our results to be directionally different from our peer companies.
If you think about 09-G just to go over sort of the main impact again from this thing we're going to have lower capitalization which will reduce earnings.
We'll have a reduction in equity and thus reduction in the amortization expense which will help earnings unless we'll have a uncertain or a muted on ROE.
One other impact I'll talk about which is sort of just a result of all those dynamics is that I would expect that you would see an increase in the growth rate after all that said and done.
So those are the main impacts.
We got a full team working on this.
It will be later in the year.
We'll give a little more guidance on the impact.
And Randy if you had to guess in terms of the timing of when we would find out is that likely to be in your third quarter queue or when do you think we might hear something on that? I think that's a reasonable reasonable time frame.
Okay.
Now the second question was on pricing on Life products.
Let's think about products in total.
Any products that we're pricing today we're pricing with capital standards that are consistent with the 400% that we talked about.
Now when you look at the Life book we're selling products that have been priced over the last couple of years.
And so you would have some products being sold today that were sold -- that were priced at 350%.
But anything that we're repricing today like the secondary guarantee UL survivorship product would be priced using capital standards that are consistent with our stated goal of 400%.
Okay.
Got it.
And just to add to that the guidance around ROE development certainly takes that comment into consideration.
Our next question is from Chris Giovanni of Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to see about end user exemption on swaps.
It looks like the industry might get exempted for that use.
And just wanted to see how you guys were thinking and positioning around this and to the extent that it doesn't go through sort of what you perceive as the risks to your business.
Yes.
We're paying attention to this as you would expect us to do and I don't think anybody knows what the final answer is.
But I would make the general comment that the comments coming out of Washington seem to in most instances keep excluding the Life Insurance industry from their heavier regulation.
And so that's not a specific comment about your specific question but the trend seems to be one that would leave the Insurance industry in a good condition from a regulatory standpoint.
And is that a comment related to this specific topic or is that a broad comment related to a number of regulatory matters? It's a broad comment related to a number of regulatory matters but it includes this one.
Our next question is from Colin Devine of Citi.
I want to commend you and your team on another very solid quarter and getting Lincoln back on track.
If I could get one clarification from you and then I have a deeper question for really Mark and Randy.
And first on the clarification I mean I'm certainly encouraged by your comments not to chase the feature war and Lincoln hasn't done that in the past.
Met is taking the guarantee their step-up guarantee up to 6% in May.
Is it your intention then that Lincoln will not follow that? That's the clarification.
And then with respect to sort of ROE as Randy walked through if we think of the Annuity business and the DC business and the returns on those which I sort of think as having come from the Lincoln side of the house and compare that to the Life businesses and Group the returns are almost double on the annuities in DC.
And as I look at the Life and you said you repriced your products how much can you do to improve the returns on the older business which as you noted was priced at a lower RBC than the 400.
So to get that up to the overall 400 you're trying to run the company at now when you put that all together how much lift can you really get on this ROE over the next few years? And I'll have as you suggested Randy talk about the second one and I'll handle the first one.
It's not our -- now let me say it again it's not our intention to increase our roll-up rate.
That's not to say that what other companies are doing is good or bad.
It's just that our value proposition is lower roll-up rates strong distribution and we think that makes sense.
Randy do you want to follow-up on the rest of that? Sure.
Talking about ROE at the high level at the highest level in total ROE growth is going to be driven by a number of items including annuities' mix shift to higher ROE businesses that you referenced: VA DC and Group Protection new business ROEs that come on across.
Well Met is really primarily a Life item because the Life ROEs that we put on the books today in that 12% to 14% range are significantly above the reported ROE in the 10% range capital redeployment management which we've talked about pretty fully on the call today and then margin management primarily in the Groups space as we continue to see loss ratios recover so all those items mixed together to give us total ROE growth.
Now when you look at the Life business in particular let's talk about we have a near-term ROE expectation of the 10%.
And it's true that it's going to be evolutionary with that ROE is it increases gradually over time as we continue to put on this 12% to 14% ROE business.
It's not going to suddenly jump up to 12%.
It's going to happen over a period of years as we continue to put on new business and that new business becomes more prominent in the overall mix of earnings.
Now aren't you also still fighting the AXXX comp? But I know you've been able to do some alternative funding for that but you're facing an inherent reserve build here that isn't it just going to require more capital which means you got a meaningful drag here on your capital for the near to immediate term I would think.
Is that a fair way to characterize it? First off the product we sell today and the product we've have been selling for about the last year on the secondary guarantee side is a product that earns those returns that I referenced without a capital solution.
So we do not have a need to go into the capital markets with those.
On the other side I would mention that build has been occurring over the years.
So it's not like there's a sudden change in the growth rate of that build.
In fact that build will decrease as once again these new products become a bigger part of the mix.
Now in terms of where we are today from a solutions standpoint actually we've pretty dramatically shifted our reserve financing mix.
If you go back 2 3 years ago the mix was primarily that we were using our short-term corporate credit facility for most of our reserve financing and we had limited long-term solutions in place about $400 million.
If you look where we are today that mix has completely shifted.
We have about $2 billion of long-term facilities in place and our usage of our corporate credit facility has declined by $1 billion as I mentioned into the $750 million range.
So a pretty dramatic change there.
In terms of what we have done to our balance sheet I'd size that in the $1 billion range.
And we'll continue to work on working off that existing amount but I don't see that as a huge issue quite honestly.
Colin it's a good question.
I would just come back to all of the issues embedded in your question are baked into our projection of aggregate ROE improvement.
Our next question is from Joanne Smith of Scotia Capital.
I just wanted to go back to the indexed Annuity question because I'm a little perplexed about why the sales are strong and why it's even a desired product at this point.
Because all I remember is when the product was first developed and the participation rates were quite high and there was a lot of profit associated with it it was very attractive to risk averse clients.
And then then we had the crisis and the volatility in the markets and the cost to hedge the product became so expensive that it was not even considered a viable product in certain circles and I'm wondering what has happened.
I understand the impact of lower volatility but I'm -- I had thought that participation rates had come down well below 50% and that to me doesn't look like it's a great value proposition to the customer.
Can you just talk about the characteristics of the product and what type of a customer it is appealing to? Yes.
Again it's 100% downside protection against equity markets with a little bit of participation in the upside of equity markets.
Specifically at this point we have two products one we call a trigger.
And what the trigger product says is that the S&amp;P 500 is above the level 1 year down the road from where it is today you get a rate of 3 1/2%.
If it's the same or down you don't get that.
The other product is a 2-year total performance.
And it can depending on total performance somewhere between 8% to 12 1/2% over the 2-year period so 4% to 6%.
So those are not bad returns.
I may have misspoke about that first one a little bit.
But in general those are reasonable returns in this environment with 100% downside protection for some part of some people's overall portfolio.
Okay so Dennis what you're saying is that -- the product has been completely restructured now.
It's not a percentage of the return in the market anymore.
It's now a fixed return based on a given percentage that the market has to perform in order to even get that percentage.
Is that correct? Well the first one the trigger that's correct.
On the second one it's a percentage of appreciation in the marketplace with caps at those 2 levels.
Okay.
So you said 8% to 12.5%.
That would be 8% to 12.5% of the total return so a percentage of a percentage? No I'm saying the upside potential is from 8% to 12 1/2% over 2 years so the annual rate is 4% to 6% depending on the particular features of the product.
Got it.
And so this is really a product that's appealing to clients that would normally buy a fixed Annuity but because interest rates are so low those are unattractive but they are not willing to buy a variable Annuity.
I think that's a good perspective and probably fair for the majority of the purchasers of this.
Our next question is from Darin Arita of Deutsche Bank.
I had a question here for Randy.
I think you mentioned that you didn't think spreads would be a tailwind and I was wondering why there wouldn't be an upside to spreads.
Well I think if you think about where rates are today they're not too different from where they were last quarter when we talked about this.
And even though they have rallied we still talked last quarter about if rates stayed in or around this level that we would have some negative impact as we move into 2012.
I think we sized that about $20 million.
That comes through spread.
So where we're investing money today which is in the low 5s is still modestly below our portfolio and that implies some level of spread compression.
Against that if you go through the businesses on the Life side we have some room but not a lot of room to adjust creditor rates.
On the Annuity and DC side there's a little more than on the Life side.
But I just think as you move forward with rates at this level there's the potential that you would see some spread compression.
But as I mentioned I think it's at very manageable levels inside of the overall growth that we're experiencing as a company.
Understood there.
And just a numbers question here.
Looking at the Life Insurance segment the DAC amortization seemed lower than normal.
Was there something that happened here this quarter? Yes.
We had some adjustments on some different line items that really impacted 3 primary items in the Life space the expenses estimates the benefit line and the underwriting acquisition expense line.
If you sum them all up they came up to about exactly 0.
But going through the three the expenses estimate line was artificially lowered by around $30 million pretax.
The benefit line was lowered by approximately $45 million pretax -- or raised excuse me by $45 million pretax and the acquisition expense line would have been lowered by about $75 million.
So you add those impacts up you get to 0.
But those 3 lines did have some impact as we adjusted some books and moved some books on to the new accounting platform.
Our next question is from Eric Berg of RBC Capital Markets.
Just one question.
In your prepared remarks you cited repeatedly and highlighted divisional return on equity a disclosure that is not unique but I would say is more the exception rather than what most companies do.
My question is this.
Since investors cannot invest in any of the divisions of Lincoln they either buy the whole company or they don't buy it at all.
And since the allocation of capital to divisions is by its very nature subjective I may look at your allocation of capital to a division and decide that it's either conservative or not conservative.
Why is this a helpful disclosure? And for that matter why does it matter? Why shouldn't I be looking only at the company-wide return on equity? Yes.
Eric I guess I don't completely agree with your point.
First of all the return that you're getting on the products that you're selling is a very important issue so we talked about that.
The return that you're getting in the line is very important.
And added up start with what your overall bottom line ROE is going to be.
So that's why we talked about it.
But at the same time your point is well taken with respect to total ROE and that is what shows up on our books and that's what we talk about all the time in terms of improvement over the next 3 years.
So I think the inside the line of business conversation about ROEs is very important.
And as you point out the bottom line is also very important.
The company is important.
Would you agree though I mean certainly I agree with you.
I didn't want to give the impression that returns on a given product basis don't matter of course they do.
But would you agree with me that it presupposes if you're going to look at that number and assign weight to it and importance to it that it presupposes a proper allocation of capital to the division? Yes.
But I think we do that pretty vigorously.
And I don't think that -- I mean there is judgment involved in it but it's based on a great deal of analysis and experience in the business.
So I think from company-to-company you might have some differences in who allocates how much to what line.
But certainly within Lincoln and comparatively from line-to-line there's quite a bit of rigor used to establish what we think the appropriate level of capital is that we are calculating the ROEs up of.
Our last question is from Colin Devine of Citi.
Okay.
Just a quick follow-up.
Guys could you compare for us what your commission rates are on the equity index product versus the variable? And then also what percentage of your equity index sales would be made by registered reps? The latter one is -- let me hold on that for a second and see if we can pull that information.
What was the first question again Colin? Just understanding if there's a difference in your commission levels on an equity index product versus other variable.
Yes.
We can get back to you on that specifically but they're low on the equity indexed Annuity.
And on the VA product they're middle single digits.
I think on the equity indexed Annuity it's sort of in the same ballpark Colin.
But let us get back to you with specifics on that please? And then Will do we have a number on registered rep selling? We don't have an exact number for the call today Dennis.
But the primary distribution channel for fixed index is our bank channel which is a channel with registered reps and is a channel where we see expansion in.
It is the registered rep channel as we enter the wirehouses and the regional broker-dealers with their B2B fees.
Yes.
And just to tie that comment into your commission comment.
One of the reasons that we're in institutions with this product is because our commission structures are quite modest relative to some of the other manufacturers of these products.
Okay? Thank you.
This ends the Q&amp;A portion of today's call.
I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Sjoreen for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
Again we would like to thank all of you for joining us this morning.
And as always if you have any follow-up questions you can contact me at our Investor Relations line at 1 (800) 237-2920 or via email at www.investorrelations@lfd.com.
Again thank you for joining us.
We apologize for dropping off earlier but we just can't control the weather.
But again have a great day and talk to you later.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for joining Lincoln Financial Group Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Jim Sjoreen.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good morning and welcome to Lincoln Financial's Second Quarter Earnings Call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about liquidity and capital resources premiums deposits expenses and income from operations are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln's website at www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to their most comparable GAAP measures.
Presenting on today's call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis.
Thanks Jim and good morning.
Our solid results this quarter and last quarter add up to a strong first half of the year reflecting successive quarters of good sales positive net flows distribution productivity and expansion and consistent presence in the market with good quality profitable retail products.
Highlights in the quarter include sales increases in nearly every business which combined with higher equity markets resulted in $5.4 billion of deposits $164 billion of account balances and $1.4 billion of net flows.
The acceleration of our capital management activities to take advantage of our share price an improvement of 70 basis points in consolidated return on equity year-to-date on a normalized basis and increased -- 8% increase in revenues 20% increase in income from operations and a 28% increase in net income.
Given these strong results let's take a moment to look at a couple of highlights from our underlying businesses.
Sales in our individual Life business were up 12% driven by continuing strength in MoneyGuard which benefited from new distribution relationships and a 61% jump in the number of advisors recommending the product to their clients.
We continue to improve our product offerings.
Earlier this year we've raised prices on our Survivorship Product to reflect the low interest rate environment and added a new flex pay funding option for consumers.
We plan to introduce similar enhancements to our secondary guarantee UL product and further enhancements to our indexed UL products in the third quarter.
Our value proposition of consistency in the market maintaining a full lineup of products and experienced wholesaling support allows us to capture and retain significant market share with major distribution partners.
In fact the first 6 months of the year Lincoln is the #1 life provider in each of our top 10 strategic partner firms.
Our Annuity business individual Annuity sales were up 4% with variable Annuity sales growing by 8%.
Our value proposition with VAs is to offer good value but not the most aggressive features and to continue to mitigate basis risk and hedge breakage while supporting consumer choice.
For example over the past several years we had evolved our investment options to include more passively managed funds and asset allocation models which improves a risk profile at the margin.
This year 39% of all flows into VAs has been into these kinds of investment selections.
We added several new distribution relationships for our fixed and indexed solutions this quarter and they are now available in every wirehouse.
We also recently introduced a guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefit writer.
These changes will provide a lift to sales as the environment for these products improve.
We had a solid quarter in Defined Contribution as we see the benefit of our investments and distribution marketing and technology and expect deposits to improve and close to turn positive in the second half as new plans currently in the pipeline come on board.
We are gaining momentum in the small case market where we have grown our wholesaling group from 30 to 46 and we are pleased to see a double-digit increase this quarter in small case deposits.
We expect similar momentum in the mid-large segment over the coming quarters.
We have added senior-level talent to propel our distribution strategies and in November we will have achieved a significant milestone in our technology transformation in this segment as we begin to add new clients to our enhanced recordkeeping platform.
In our Group business we have been focused on managing through elevated loss ratios and we're pleased to see some improvement there as actions we instituted took hold.
New business proposals and sales in the quarter were both up single digits and we plan to launch a critical illness product in the third quarter to further round out our portfolio and position this business for the trend toward voluntary benefits.
Taken together these measures give us confidence that the foundation is in place for increased sales momentum in the second half of the year.
We continue to successfully leverage the strength and reach of Lincoln Financial Distributors.
As I mentioned we've increased shelf space for MoneyGuard and fixed annuities and have completed our plan expansion of a small case DC team and continue to build our team supporting mid to large plan sales.
We once again saw an increase in the number of advisors who recommended Lincoln solutions already at over 40 000 through the first 6 months of the year and we also saw increases in wholesaler productivity across most products.
Lincoln Financial Network continues to execute on its growth strategy by retaining top-level financial planners and attracting experienced recruits.
LFN has increased net active producers by 125 from last year which helped LFN to meaningfully contribute to Lincoln's growth in the quarter including sales of Lincoln Life up 12% Lincoln variable annuities up 13% and first year small case DC deposits up 16%.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We remain well positioned from a capital and cash standpoint.
We continue to main holding company cash in excess of our target continue to generate healthy RBC ratios at our insurance subsidiaries and have undertaken meaningful capital management actions in the quarter.
Over the past 2 years we have taken steps to place our investment portfolio in a more defensive position reducing our exposure to below investment-grade securities and more volatile investments as we ride out the slow economic recovery.
Before I turn the call over to Randy to add his comments on the quarter let me say there has obviously been a lot of focus lately on global economic uncertainty with the debt ceiling negotiations evolving conditions in Europe and recent weakness in U.S.
economic indicators.
It's important to recognize that the policy and strategy actions we took over the past few years position us to compete in an increasingly volatile environment without sacrificing the product and distribution consistency that our partners expect of Lincoln.
Some of these actions include: Raising prices and reducing tail risks in our product designs; deleveraging the holding company balance sheet; reducing credit risk in the investment portfolio; and importantly moving from a net borrowed position to a strong net cash position at the holding company.
Individually these are all important and prudent steps.
Electively it represents significant and long-lasting improvement for the company and its ability to form more consistently in the future and in volatile markets.
And we have already seen this in our first half results.
With that let me turn it over to Randy.
Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of $349 million or $1.09 per share for the second quarter.
Our second quarter results closely mirror those of the first.
Overall strong top and bottom line performance across the businesses.
The operating revenue is up over 8% normalized earnings of $0.98 per share up 15% from last year a very strong capital position and continued improvement in our risk profile.
Consolidated return on equity for the quarter was 11.3% or 10.2% when looking at normalized earnings continuing a trend of improvement in this key evaluation metric.
Return on equity growth has been driven primarily by strong earnings results the lesser impact from accelerated share buybacks.
Operating earnings benefited from strong margin performance across the businesses most notably interest margin where strong income from alternative investments and prepayment fees added to interest spreads.
Base spreads that is excluding excess alternative and prepayment fee income remain steady when compared to the second quarter of 2010 despite the persistent low interest rate environment that has existed over that period.
During the quarter we entered into $300 million of interest rate locks increasing our total to $1.3 billion.
The rate locks which were entered into interest rate level that would help to support current interest spreads will mature over the next 5 years.
As you know we have previously disclosed the potential implications to earnings if prevailing interest rates that remain at depressed levels for a few more years.
Based on an update as of June 30 and assuming that 10-year treasury stays at 3% earnings will decline by approximately $20 million in 2012 and $40 million in 2013.
It's worth noting that this is an exercise that runs counter to what the forward curve indicates in what we believe will happen to rates over the next few years.
Nonetheless you can see that the projections represent a relatively small percentage of total annual earnings.
Turning to segment results and starting with Annuities.
Positive flows in markets produced another strong quarter driving a 21% increase in total account balances to a record $89 billion.
Earnings during the quarter of $150 million were up 29% over the prior year quarter as growth in the equity markets led to improved mortality results positive retrospective and lock-in and a 14% increase in revenues.
And our Defined Contribution business account values were up 15% to $40 billion and revenues grew 6% leading to an 18% increase in earnings to $42 million.
Pretax margin in the quarter came in at a strong 23% compared to 20% in the second quarter of 2010.
Turning to our Life Insurance segment.
Earnings drivers performed as expected.
Life Insurance in force up 3% and account balance is up 8% quarter-over-quarter.
Normalized interest spreads remained strong in the 190-basis point range having increased modestly from the year-ago level supported by the long-duration nature of the assets and liabilities in our Life business.
Life earnings of $152 million essentially flat with the prior year.
As a reminder we have executed reserve financings over the past year which will benefit in the enterprise in total have pulled income out of the Life segment.
In the Group Protection segment non-medical net earned premium grew 7% which despite a soft sales environment continues to benefit from good persistency and pricing increases.
Non-medical loss ratio for the quarter came in at 73.4% continuing the trend of improvement seen in the first quarter.
Embedded in this quarter's number is a 50-basis point reduction in the discount rate of 4.25% for 2011 new claiming curls.
This increased the loss ratio by about 1% for the quarter.
Premium growth improving loss ratios and strong investment income drove earnings of $26 million up 15% from the second quarter of 2010.
I think that we still need to be somewhat cautious in this business as unemployment levels in the economy pressure incidence.
That continues to run above our long-term expectations although down from the highs seen at the end of 2010.
So while some caution is still called for there's an encouraging development to see loss ratios responding to the actions that we've taken including premium increases and additional resources applied to claims management.
Turning to expenses.
Expense management was strong during the quarter with expense ratios declining on both a sequential and a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Realize that while G&amp;A was up 4% over 2010 levels this was due primarily to sales growth and targeted strategic investment-related spends.
As we move to the remainder of the year I do expect expenses to increase primarily the result of growth in strategic investment-related spends across the company besides this at $0.01 to $0.02 per share per quarter relative to second quarter expense levels.
Finally let me provide some comments on capital risk management and related activities.
Credit profile of our invested assets continues to improve below investment grade assets declining to just over 6% over the portfolio down over 3% from the peak.
Recently we have seen limited value in the high-yield space and must have been following a higher quality investment strategy primarily investment-grade bonds and commercial mortgages.
Additionally we have been selectively de-risking the portfolio of assets that are more sensitive to the economy.
Looking forward if and when value comes back into our credit-sensitive assets we would anticipate that we would allocate more to these asset classes.
The variable annuity hedge program continued its history of strong performance and ended the quarter with hedged assets of $1 billion well in excess of the hedge liability of $350 million.
Estimated RBC is unchanged from first quarter levels at approximately 500%.
Total adjusted capital of $7.3 billion was up approximately $100 million for the quarter after taking dividends to the holding company of $150 million.
During the quarter we continued our capital redeployment activities to repurchase of $150 million of common stock.
It was an opportune time given the weakness in the share price.
And if you recall this represents the balance of the buyback guidance provided on last quarter's call.
Looking ahead we generate $350 million to $400 million of free cash flow at the holding company each year and have $1.6 billion of capital in excess of targeted levels positioning us to continue capital deployment activities with our share buybacks.
I'm going to move away from specific guidance.
Anticipate that share buybacks will continue in coming quarters.
To wrap up and expand on Dennis's comments.
It's important to note some of the important actions we have taken to improve both the balance sheet and consistency of quarterly results.
As equity markets and interest rates struggled we reset our long-term earned rate for both reducing the risk of volatility from unfavorable movements in DAC and VOBA.
We put lingering issues such as the Transamerica and Swiss Re litigation behind us.
And on the capital leverage and liquidity front over the last few years we have grown insurance company capital by over $2 billion executed a numerous reserve financings so that today nearly 80% of our finance reserves are covered by the long-term solutions that are matched with the duration of the liabilities.
Reduced long-term financial leverage by over 5 percentage points to 20% and went from a net short-term borrowed position at our holding company to today where we hold net caps of $700 million.
Fred [ph] mentioned each of these actions before but sometimes it's important to step back and look at the totality of what we've done because it is actions like these that have positioned us to report consistent high-quality earnings as we move forward.
With that let me turn the call over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions]  Our first question comes from Suneet Kamath of Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Question about the interest rate guidance just to make sure that I have the numbers correct.
You said assuming a 3-year -- a 3% tenure excuse me you said $20 million in 2012 and $40 million in 2013 is that correct? Yes Suneet that's correct.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So if I go back to I guess earlier this year I think in some of your conference presentations you provided some data on this.
And I think the 2012 estimate at that time was something -- again I think the assumptions were the same was something like $71 million hit.
So if that's correct what specifically has changed in terms of dropping that impact? Suneet we've given impacts of low interest rates 3 different times.
One time was the 10-year treasury at 2.5%.
At that time the year one impact was approximately $30 million.
And then we gave the impact when the 10-year treasury was closer to approximately 335.
At that time the year one impact was in the range of $20 million.
So I think where we sit today and with the guidance using a 10-year treasury of 3% we're very consistent with those results with the year one impact as I mentioned of $20 million.
If you think about sensitivity around that it really go back to that earliest guidance where the 10-year treasury was at 2.5% and look at that year one impact of $30 million.
That should give you a good range for potential impacts of low interest rates.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
And then just a quick follow-up.
This is all just operating earnings drags as opposed to anything in terms of DAC or reserved builds that could happen is that correct? And can you provide any sensitivities around -- or thoughts around the potential for something other than just kind of normal earnings drag? Yes.
Suneet.
By giving these impacts for the next few years I'm really giving you the impacts that I believe could happen.
Other issues I really don't see happening over the next few years.
Let me just reemphasize that.
When we give this guidance we're inclusive of both operating income and balance sheet implications.
So to be quite clear the operating earnings impact from reduced margins to declining interest rates over the next couple of years is the only impact that we see from low interest rates.
.
Our next question comes from Nigel Dally of Morgan Stanley.
With capital encouraging to hear plans for continued buybacks at the close of the year.
But can you provide us an update with all the capital management alternatives such as your plans for leverage reduction how you're viewing the dividend and anything on the consolidation front? Yes.
Let me tackle those in order.
Looking at share buybacks we're generating cash flow at the holding company as I mentioned $350 million to $400 million to be right around $400 million this year.
That really looked -- provides the pool that I would look to for share buyback potential for the year.
As you're right we've done $225 million to the first half of the year.
Look to that number when thinking about share buybacks.
Dividends we'll discuss that with the board in the fourth quarter so no further guidance right now on that.
On the deleveraging front we have a fourth quarter maturity of $250 million.
I'd look to access cash at the holding company right now.
As I mentioned we have $700 million of excess cash which is a couple of hundred million in excess of our targeted level of $500 million.
So current plans are to repay that fourth quarter maturity with excess cash.
And Nigel the only thing I would add to that and you've heard me say this before specifically with the respect to dividends it's our intention and hope that overtime we can increase the level meaningly from where it is today.
When that happens as Randy says a board decision.
But certainly the board and I are consistent in our desire to see that get the dividend rate get higher.
Okay.
And then any comments on the consolidation front? On the what front? ] Consolidation any acquisition opportunities? M&amp;A in the business? Yes.
I think M&amp;A has been slowed down and certainly in the Life industry probably more widely because of the economic uncertainty.
So there may be deals done in the industry but it seems quite quiet right now.
From our perspective specifically we continue to look for opportunities to strategically improve the business and we've said and continue to be consistent that if we were to do something if we're able to buy something and that's not sure we -- our priorities would be to expand the Group Protection and DC business.
Our next question comes from Jay Gelb of Barclays Capital.
Could you remind us how you calculate the $1.6 billion of excess capital? And where would your -- with a 500% risk-based capital ratio that seems awfully high so I'm just trying to get a sense what a realistic target is.
Jay when we calculate the $1.6 billion we're using a 400% RBC ratio and $500 million of cash at the holding company.
So mathematically $1.6 billion is the numbers in excess of that.
I mean when you look at the Life company capital I'd go back to my earlier discussion we're looking at the free cash flow as the cash we have available really for capital deployment but some usage of the excess capital that we have at the holding company.
In terms of Life company I think Life company capital when you look at the environment today it's obviously volatile.
I think we're going to continue to be somewhat cautious with the usage of that Life company capital.
I see.
And on a separate issue you gave us the sensitivity of interest rates stay lower for longer what if the yield curve flattens how should we be thinking about the potential impact there? Jay I'm going to step to the guidance we've given on interest rates which is the 10-year at 3% and the previous guidance we've given and a yield curve that is shaped of somewhat like it is today.
When you think about the flattening of the yield curve the impacts of math would -- we really haven't contemplated in terms of guidance.
I don't think we would see large negative impacts from the flattening of the yield curve.
It's tough to say what the other macroeconomic factors that would be in place if that were to happen.
Yes I think but just add to Randy's comments most of what we're talking about in terms of the impact on earnings comes from the in force business.
Some of this question in particular flattening of the yield curve probably doesn't change that much with that being the impact from the in force business.
But it does open questions about not just for Lincoln but for everybody else product development and product changes and other bigger not in force but new business issues.
Again even if that were to happen we're pretty confident that we can maintain good quality retail products in the marketplace across the board that we could change pricing.
And that the products would still be viewed by the consumer as a quality in meeting needs.
And Jay I would add just the overall position of the balance sheet and liquidity of the holding company we're very comfortable from a balance sheet and a capital standpoint that we're well positioned to handle any environment that comes our way for the next few years.
All right.
It just feels that you have an added potential lever there for ROE enhancement but I understand your position.
Our next question comes from Randy Binner of FBR Capital Markets.
The question on a lot of people's minds and just kind of picking up on where Suneet left off is just  I think it will be helpful to just to review with the DAC charge that was taken in the third quarter of last year as well as the goodwill test of last year.
Just in my recollection is that both of those tests were kind of meant to be for a 10-year yield environment where the 10-year was at 250.
So I think it will be helpful for myself and others just to hear a quick review of where that DAC test was done relative to the 10-year.
And with goodwill in particular I think the discount rate in new business quality also played in so if you could elaborate on those 2 items that would be great.
Sure Randy.
I'll start with goodwill.
The goodwill is first and foremost a test of the Life production.
Life production continues to run strong so that is a good indicator of where we stand on Life goodwill.
On the interest rate side I'd say the impacts are somewhat neutral to relative to last year's tests and that rates that come down tend to pull the discount rate down while at the same time putting some pressure on margins.
So I would describe interest rates as neutral while the main driver the Life production continues to run strong.
On the J curve front if you remember we assessed that at last year in the third quarter with the 10-year right at about 2.5% so right in the range where we are today.
What happened then was then that the rate the new money rate graded up over an 8-year period.
We're running pretty close to the J curve at that time.
I'd say we're up a couple 2 3 basis points behind but a relatively small impact a real small impact relative to the assumption change that we made last year.
So by and large on the DAC front that set of assumption has already been kind of reset for this low-yield environment that we're finding now? Absolutely Randy.
I'd say we feel real good about where we are from a DAC standpoint relative to interest rate assumption.
Our next question comes from Chris Giovanni of Goldman Sachs.
Just a couple of questions.
One for Randy I wanted to see if you can provide an update on your sensitivity to moves in the equity markets on your earnings and then sort of a rough justice impact to RBC assuming maybe a 100-point decline in the S&amp;P.
The impact on the earnings of movements to a -- of a certain percentage in the equity markets is primarily an item that occurs obviously in the DC and the Annuity business.
I would say roughly speaking that growth in the equity markets is pretty closely linked to the growth in the earnings.
So if you saw equity markets move up pick a number 2% or 3% you see earnings move up like amount across the whole business.
I would say it's fairly similar in the DC space.
Those are the 2 primary areas where I'd look to an impact from any movement in the equity markets.
Chris could you repeat your last question? Just in terms of maybe a 100-point decline in the S&amp;P what does that do to your RBC ratio? Yes.
The impact of a movement in the S&amp;P in RBC ratio would be relatively small.
Remember that as I mentioned in my comments we're sitting here today with a hedge program with assets that exceed liabilities and that includes statutory liabilities at $650 million.
So it's a significant amount of cushion against any impact on RBC from movements in the equity markets so very well positioned from that standpoint.
Sort of what level of S&amp;P then where we need to see to sort of absorb that cushion? It's impacted by movements in factors outside of just movements in the equity markets.
I would roughly estimate that you'd be at S&amp;P levels in the 800 to 900 range.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just one for Dennis if you can maybe give us sort of a bit of an update in the VA space in terms of what you're seeing in terms of maybe a pickup in competition and then maybe any changes sort of in guarantee features or pricing.
Competition in any particular quarter I've heard that some companies have reported some pretty big swings can result from any number of things including moving from a higher or more-rich product to a less-rich product.
So it's hard really to judge in any particular quarter what the competition is doing.
And I would come back to what I've said in previous analyst calls that to a large extent we're trying to sell products on our terms and in amounts that we feel good with respect to our overall business mix.
And so what we're focusing on is the continuation of our value proposition distribution productivity and as I mentioned already today we obviously keep an eye on hedge risk and continue to try to make asset improvements that help on that front.
So from Lincoln's perspective irrespective of what others may be doing we continue to sell in good volumes good increases and on our terms.
So I feel pretty good about what we're doing.
And I'll come back to and say at some level the competition is important.
But just to repeat market share is not I think a good place to focus on because you can get market share by franking up products that are good for the consumers but not for the shareholders.
If I can sneak just one last one in.
Just in terms of -- you mentioned in the comment in terms of increasing global uncertainty can you maybe provide a bit of an update in terms of what Fred's looking at? What you guys are seeing and thinking about in terms of long-term strategic planning and M&amp;A strategies? Yes I can.
And it starts with we strongly believe in the fundamental business model that we have right now across all of our businesses our distribution strength the pricing of our products and of course that will change as need be the balance sheet all the things that we've been saying now for quite a while were very -- the fundamentals of distribution product balance sheet strength are as strong now as they have been for years.
So it's continuing to execute by and large on the strategy that's in place.
On top of that we would at some point if the right opportunity comes along like to move our DC and our Group Protection business to a little bit larger percentage of our overall earnings mix and capital allocation.
We've been in business for a long time.
Opportunities for strategic and sound acquisitions come and go but you can't count on it.
And so we continue to focus on the fundamentals of the businesses that we're in and growing on an organic basis.
Before we move to the next question I want to go back to the earlier question on the impact of the movements in the S&amp;P to earnings.
I talked about the impact on the Annuity and the DC business.
You bring it all together and you look in total across the company.
We find there's about 1% movement in the S&amp;P currently has an impact of about $3 million to $5 million to earnings on a total organization.
Our next question comes from Andrew Kligerman of UBS Securities.
Just sort of staying on the S&amp;P issue.
Where might your DAC get impacted? Where would the S&amp;P have to hit? At which point would you have to take a DAC charge? Okay Andrew as we've talked about in the past we're very well positioned in our corridor with an assumption effective long-term run rate assumption in our DAC models that assumes an immediate drop in the equity -- an immediate drop in account values of 15% which equates to a drop in the equity markets of between 20% and 25%.
Before we would have to consider an unlocking we would even have to move through that a negative unlocking through that.
And it's probably in that same range that I've talked about earlier for capital impacted.
In the S&amp;P 800 range S&amp;P 500 operating at about 800 more than 800 000 to 900 000 [ph].
Any sense Randy of like what kind of impact.
Hopefully it won't happen again.
I hate to see the S&amp;P there.
But any sense of the kind of impact or the range of impact that we might see there? You know Andrew it all depends on the level that it would go to right? But as we sit here today on the positive side we're between $350 million and $400 million of positive good guide as of the end of the second quarter.
Perfect.
And then just maybe a little color on the Group business.
I mean the loss ratios have at least stable to modestly improved.
You mentioned I think some increased pricing.
Could I get a little color around what type of pricing increases were seen in dental and long-term disability? Andrew Dennis.
First I'd hope you ask the question when we'd have to release and what level the S&amp;P is going to have release this buildup cushion.
I hope that's the case.
But now to your specific question.
We've taken 2 actions to help improve the loss ratios or 2 principal actions.
One was to raise pricing and the second one was to increase resources on our claims management area.
Let me speak to your specific question first which is pricing.
It's a little bit easier to measure pricing increases on renewals because you know exactly what you had and exactly what you're getting.
So there on the non-dental business we're getting about a 3% pop in pricing.
on the non-dental business.
On the dental business we're a little bit north of 9%.
So we're getting targeted price increases that we had hoped to achieve.
On new business across the board on the non-dental products we've raised prices about 3% so within that same range.
And on dental similarly.
And at the moment we're not having to discount too much in terms of pricing on a case so that low-single digit is what we're achieving.
And again we're pretty happy to be able to do that.
On the claim resource or excuse me on claims management we are making good strides particularly helped by some new sophisticated programming that we use to identify claims that have the most likelihood and opportunity to be managed.
So across the board good price increases and a lot more investment in technology to improve our claim management capability.
Our next question comes from Jammin Bhullar of JPMorgan.
I just had a question on DC flows they were actually negative this quarter.
And it looks like the withdrawal rate picked up.
So I was just wondering what's going on there.
And maybe if you're seeing any disruption related to the new record-keeping system that you're going onto in the fourth quarter.
And if that is the case then why wouldn't you see withdrawals for the next couple of quarters? What we've said is that the negative flows this quarter were predominantly related to our mid- to large-case segment and that just by its nature is lumpy.
I think in fact there was 2 cases that surrendered and they added up to $250 million.
And one was -- both of them were competitive situations and we just couldn't manage the pricing.
But let me come back to some of the more positive pieces of it both in the small cases as well as the mid- to large-case market.
In the small case as I've said we've finished our expansion of wholesalers and we're seeing double-digit increases in deposits in the small case market.
We have a fairly significant for us pipeline of opportunity in the mid- to large-case market and we typically convert those -- that pipeline at 10% 15% of that.
The 10% to 15% of that pipeline is giving us confidence that we'll see good results in the third quarter and the fourth quarter.
And then I would add to this change in technology.
In fact particularly in the consultant marketplace there is one or 2 consultants that I would say put us in the penalty box.
Not everyone did but a couple did.
And now hopefully in the position to put the new business on the new platform in the third quarter.
We'll be out of the penalty box and that should help us as well probably more so in 2012 than in 2011 because these cases take time to -- the sales cycle is more than a couple of months on these cases.
Okay? And then -- and just one more on the share buybacks.
I think you mentioned in your comments that you are going to continue buying back stock.
You also said you've got about $1.6 billion of excess capital.
So the question was on the one hand you've got done [ph] in capital but on the other side the economy is actually not that great.
The market's pulled back rates are low.
So how do you think -- how should we think about buybacks? Would they remain at this type of a base or would they slow down until the economy improves or you're seeing signs of the market coming back? Right now let me just repeat a couple of things that Randy said.
And again this is the way he and I are thinking about it right now.
We're generating and have continually generated free cash at the holding company in the neighborhood of $400 million.
There's capital coming up from our subsidiaries to the holding company roughly $700 million and then reduced by $250 million $260 million of debt interest expense so it's in that $350 million to $400 million category.
Right now in terms of share repurchases and increases in the dividend that's the pool that we're looking at.
I think it will be pretty similar in 2012 to the experience we're heading in 2011.
Again to repeat what Randy said we've used about $250 million of that.
So if we went to the full amount that would suggest a $150 million more capability.
We're not saying we're going to do that.
To your point I think it's a very volatile time right now.
Hopefully there's been a little bit of an overreaction to some of the events over the last -- or some of the reported data over the last couple of weeks.
So to summarize we're thinking about $350 million to $400 million is kind of an ongoing pool of money available for share repurchases and dividend increases.
We are going to further reduce leverage that's coming out of cash so that doesn't affect that number.
And then that leads to $1.6 billion.
Right now we're not thinking about using any significant amount of that for share repurchases.
But as we've said in the past when things improve and of course they haven't in the last 30 to 60 days we'd be more willing to use that money for capital management activities or hopefully as we talked earlier there might be some acquisition opportunity that would strategically move us forward and use some of that $1.6 billion.
Your next question comes from Ed Spehar of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
First of all I hope you don't take the questions on M&amp;A as any indication that any of us want to see a deal with the stock at less than 65% of book value.
I think using equity right now is not a very good idea Ed.
Well yes using any capacity whether that's cash or equity either way it's using equity.
I guess my question is on the buyback is you've talked about a very substantial cushion.
S&amp;P 800 900 both a stat and GAAP basis.
You've talked about no material impact really from a 10-year treasury at really a 2.5%.
And you look at an opportunity here for a permanent value creation with your stock with a 15% earnings yield.
I'm wondering why and understand that it's an uncertain world but uncertain worlds are the ones that create big opportunities if you're confident in the actual fundamental numbers you're talking about.
And so what would it take for you to think about working down excess capital to buy the stock? Let me just state -- restate what we just said.
We said that we were going to buy shares back maybe up to $400 million this year some question around that.
We're going to take $250 million of cash out of the holding company position.
We're already if we do both if we do more share repurchase we're already moving $650 million of capital from the company.
I think that's a pretty strong statement.
Yes.
I just would reiterate Ed in terms of the movement you've seen from us and if we go back to the end of last year we were talk about share buybacks this year of about $100 million.
So as we have seen some stability lately some of that stability has gone away but as we have seen the profile of the company continue to improve as we seen that capital continue to remain strong we have moved it up the capital we're deploying in the share buybacks from as I mentioned about $100 million estimated.
This is recently at the end of last year to what Dennis talked about.
And I talked about a little earlier which is in the range of $400 million potentially this year.
No.
I think it's great that the level this year versus last.
I don't mean to say it isn't I just -- when you look at where the stock is now I'm just wondering if it doesn't make sense to be even more aggressive.
Just one other question Dennis on VA.
I think that you've got a couple of big -- the big 3 I think there's some indication that Met might reduce the attractiveness at least somewhat of this new product that they've come out with when they refile the next version.
Pru has reduced the guarantee percentage or sorry the roll-up percentage Jackson National has said publicly that they're going to be less aggressive with product in the second half of the year versus the first.
If all that stuff is true how much of an appetite do you have? And I think it's good to hear you're not -- market share isn't what drives you but it sounds like there might be an opportunity to write more business as you head into the second half of the year and do you have the appetite for it? We're not going to make any product feature change to drive sales.
We keep pretty close attention to what the competition is doing and although I can't comment specifically in any of the 3 that you've mentioned it does seem like people are coming back to where we are or have been on roll operation and other features.
So we will just Ed I'm happy with what we're doing.
And I mean that in the perspective of volume of sales and selling on our terms.
We could see that improve a little bit in which we'll be comfortable.
But kind of sales growth that you've seen over the last couple of quarters is we're pretty comfortable at that level and somewhat higher than that level if the competitive situation changes.
Our next question comes from Colin Devine of Citi.
I had one question if we could talk about the no-lapse guarantee reserves and what you're holding on a GAAP level relative to what you hold on a stat under the HR [ph] blocks? Yes Colin.
Remembering that stat and GAAP accounting has some linked -- significant differences not just in the reserve levels but in the assets you hold including DAC asset that you hold on a GAAP basis.
The net balance sheet of the 2 items is much closer than the reserve levels I think would indicate.
On a GAAP basis we're building up SLP reserves.
We haven't building up SLP reserves for some time now to the point now where we have built SLP reserves in the range of $1.5 billion behind that book of business.
On the stat basis we have total stat reserves in the range of $14 billion or so and we have total GAAP reserves of $11 billion.
So when you take that GAAP reserve of $11 billion and you add in the SLP reserve to that number you have a difference in that $2 billion to $3 billion range.
Let me restate that Colin.
I believe that the $11 billion includes the $1.5 billion of SLP reserves.
So you have about a $3 billion difference.
Remember that we have been doing excessive reserve financings of statutory reserves with this business.
We've continued those over the last year and we anticipate we'll be able to continue to do those as we move forward.
So we'd anticipate that that difference would come down as we move forward.
Okay.
So if I hear that are you saying that you think on a GAAP basis that you're going to get your no-lapse guarantee reserve level up to somewhere close to what it is on the stat? No.
The stat reserve number of $14 billion is a gross number.
Remember that we have as I mentioned earlier financed reserves in the range right now of $2.5 billion.
So when you net out that $2.5 billion remember what you see is that that GAAP and stat reserves are very much in alignment.
I don't anticipate any negative impact on GAAP reserves from SGUL.
Okay.
And just to clarify what you've financed.
Did you fully finance it or did you reinsure part of the mortality exposure only? No.
It's a separate issues.
We obviously have reinsurance on all of our products on exposures above our retained amount.
Our financings are discrete transactions we enter into on specific books of business.
We've done a number of those that have added up to the $2.5 billion that I talked about.
Our next question comes from Thomas Gallagher of Credit Suisse.
Follow-up on reserves but if I look at Page 24 there was an increase in Life Insurance reserves in the quarter but it was offset by a DAC reduction.
Now my understanding is that it was related to the systems conversion that's going on.
So my question is can you give us a little bit of color what exactly is going on there? And also is that systems conversion occurring for both GAAP and statutory? Yes the conversion is occurring for both.
We've been going through this process for over a year now.
And we probably have about that time left even though we anticipate that we're going to complete the majority of this work hopefully by the end of the year or early into next year.
And I would say that the impact we took this quarter hopefully represents the bulk of any sort of noise that you'll see around that item.
Looking at the specific adjustments what you find inside these models as that these numbers do move together.
If one goes up for instance the liability goes up DAC tend -- will be moved down.
So the models are not independent but they're related.
So I'm not surprised at all that the fact that one went up would cause the other one to go down.
As we estimated earlier in the year the impacts almost perfectly offset each other.
So a noise I think that you saw this quarter while some may continuously go forward.
I think you've sighted sort of seeing the peak of this quarter and the noise offset each other in the 2 lines as you had mentioned.
Got it.
And so Randy if you -- given that it's been done for both GAAP and stat for GAAP you have the DAC offset.
Is it fair to assume on stat you got the reserve 150 million reserve increase but no offsetting impact? So was there a statutory charge this quarter related to this? Or can you help me...
There was no stat-related impact.
Remember that the statutory assumptions which are really set of issue and locked in so you don't have that perspective nature that you see inside the GAAP which is really what drives some of the calculational differences inside the GAAP reserves and DAC balances.
Got it.
Okay.
And then just one question on EITF 09-G.
Can you give us an update on where you stand there any quantification of it? And also a related question is it both DAC and VOBA that are potentially falling under the scope here or is VOBA excluded? Yes.
The VOBA does not get impacted by the EITF 09-G it's just DAC balances.
So the VOBA we established back at time of the merger will not be adjusted as we look to do our retrospective adjustment.
In terms of where we are today really say the first half of this year has been about interpreting the rules.
So we've gone through the rules.
We've come up with our interpretations.
We've pretty much completed our review with our auditors so we have them onboard with our interpretations.
Last half of the year and I would really say the next quarter will be about determining the specific impacts.
We do anticipate that we will do the retrospective adjustment that it is allowed as part of the process.
So uncertain what the net impact is going to be but we should be on track to provide a pretty good guidance as we move into the third quarter call I would imagine.
Okay.
And just how much of your $9.3 billion of DAC and VOBA is VOBA? The VOBA balance I don't have that number right on me.
Jim can provide that number off-line.
Our next question comes from Steven Schwartz of Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions on Annuities.
Something Dennis caught me by surprise.
You mentioned I think that you had introduced a GLWB.
I mean you've had income for Life for quite a while which could be used like a GLWB.
I think you've had lifetime income advantage for a long long time now.
So what is it that you did? I made that comment in reference to adding it to our fixed products.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
All right I didn't get that.
And then another one if I may.
What is today the reliance sensitivity however you want to put it to American funds? I'd have to find the breakout which I don't have right in front of me of the balances and our VAs between the 2 products.
Why don't I ask Jim to get back to you on that? Our next question comes from John Nadel of Stern Agee.
So if the 10-year sits at 3% you've got about 3% pressure on earnings 2 years out.
If we're at 2.5% on the tenure you've got maybe 5% pressure again 2 years out.
So to be frank that seems pretty trivial when you put it in that kind of context and yet it seems to be low interest rates remains the single biggest reason your stock continues to trade at this consistent discount versus the group.
So you see how the market would be wrong on a given stock or even on a given issue like this for a relatively short period of time.
But this discount remains intact now for a long period of time.
What is it that we're all missing? I mean in terms of the risk to the balance sheet or the risk to reserves or capital.
I mean this clearly can't be.
This discount can't -- versus the group can't simply be because of 3% to 5% earnings risk.
I think it's a very good question because what you say is accurate.
And I guess possibly because there's been more volatility in our balance sheet such as the $130 million hit to DAC I guess third quarter of 2010 that it's left an impression that that might happen again.
I don't know.
Manulife has more volatility than that and they traded the premium to you.
Well let me say this.
We think that the premium isn't warranted by the facts or the discount isn't warranted by the facts.
I'd echo Dennis's comments and I think you saw that in the quarter when we accelerated our share buybacks that we had announced earlier.
We did $150 million of share buybacks.
We don't agree with the marketplace that the share price should be priced like this.
Let me [indiscernible] response to an earlier question.
We have [indiscernible] $3 billion is our total VOBA.
So just following up on that that leaves $1 billion of DAC just to be clear? Yes.
Okay.
I guess I would just -- I'm not sure exactly what to ask you for to help us get more comfortable with the risk that perhaps the difference between your UL of statutory and GAAP reserves that that difference between the 2 needs to close over time and then that's a charge to equity.
Or you know where I'm getting at I mean I understand -- I clearly understood Colin's line of questioning and I guess that difference between those 2 reserve levels I think that probably at the end of the day is the weight on your stock.
So can you Randy maybe you can go through that a bit one more time for us? Yes.
And let me go back to that because I think I fumbled that question a little bit.
We have net statutory reserves that is reserves after financings that we've put in place in the range of $11.5 billion and we have GAAP reserves of about $11 billion.
The numbers are relatively close.
Now let me be clear.
I see no additional reserves that we need to put up on either a GAAP or a stat basis on SGUL for the foreseeable future.
Those differences in reserves are solely due to the different calculational techniques.
Okay.
That was pretty clear.
Maybe I'll expand a little bit on the question of valuation.
We worked hard since the crisis to make changes fundamental changes so that the volatility that we saw during the crisis predominantly driven by balance sheet issues don't reoccur.
I'll just go back in time.
We've had good sales positive net flows because of the strength of our products the strength of our distribution in every quarter with the exception of one I think over the last 36 months for sure and probably even before that.
So the fundamentals of the business model continue and did continue right through the crisis.
The crisis hurt us a little bit on 2 reasons: One asset losses; and two at a moment in time we had a net borrowed position and $500 million worth of debt maturing and it's spooked the market.
We've resolved those problems.
Increased -- or lower the risk of our overall investment portfolio and now have about 18 months to 24 months of cash on the balance sheet so we can finance ourselves over that period of time if the world ever gets back to where it was a short 24 to 30 months ago.
So this is why we keep reiterating the fact that the fundamental operating platform of the company has worked throughout the last 3 years and we've made significant changes on the balance sheet cash and investment risk.
And I'll also add to that repriced our products reduced the tail risks took the charges that we need to take related to low interest rates.
And we think we're in a very solid position to move forward and continue to kind of demonstrate good results.
So then Dennis if I can just follow up on all of that so I mean clearly so much progress the world is a volatile place but certainly better than it was a couple of years ago.
Your capital position is strong your risk-based capital ratio is strong.
And yet if I look at a shorter period of time just let's call it the second quarter from the beginning of the second quarter to the end of the second quarter your excess capital is unchanged.
In essence you bought back stock to the tune of your free cash flow during the quarter.
With all of this confidence with your own understanding of your earnings risk to low rates to equity markets if there's this big of a disconnect between your understanding of that risk and the market's understanding of that risk to Ed's point earlier why not spend some of the unbalance sheet excess capital work that down in addition to spending your free cash flow buying back your stock at what -- at least what I would expect in your view is an extraordinarily attractive price even if the market doesn't recognize it.
Yes.
And again let me repeat what I said and what Randy said the progress that we've made and the improvements that we've seen caused us to dramatically increase our actions in and around share repurchases.
I think in a contemplating in a 12-month period removing $650 million of capital from this company and a combination of share repurchases and debt reductions is a very strong statement by management on the confidence that we have going forward.
Now with respect to dipping into the $1.6 billion that is something we're more cautious about not because we don't have strong belief about the strength of the company because we do obviously we keep saying it but because the rating agencies have not quite come along haven't come along quite as quickly.
And again we're only 2 years away from the biggest calamity in recent history economically and in capital markets.
And so those 2 things and quite candidly the results that we've seen -- or not the results but the reports that we've seen over the last 24 months excuse me 24 to 48 hours I guess have suggested that the economy is still fairly tepid.
So we're just perhaps abundantly cautious but cautious.
Again I'll come back to removing $650 million of capital from the company permitting capital from the company in a 6 months period is a fairly strong statement by management.
We have time for one further question from Joanne Smith of Scotia Capital.
Maybe I'll approach it in a little bit different way on what the market's missing.
If I go back to 2008 and 2009 it was the investment portfolio that really got you into trouble and the lack of available cash on the balance sheet.
I guess part of the reasons that you were holding a lot of commercial back mortgage CMBS and RMBS on your balance sheet was because you didn't have the large capability in-house capability to underwrite your own commercial loans.
And so you had this dependency on packaged securities.
And I'm looking at the disclosures as of March 31 and there's still $9.3 billion of RMBS on your balance sheet at fair value.
So do you think that there is something in the market that still has that fear that there could be significant asset losses? We all know that the residential real estate market still is very very bad.
So maybe you could give us a little bit more color on where you stand in terms of the quality of that portfolio and any potential impairments.
Joanne let me unwind a few of those comments.
First on the commercial mortgage loan front.
We originate many commercial mortgage loans.
We have a $7 billion book of commercial mortgage loans and believe we have one of the best underwriting platforms in the industry.
I think that's been borne out by the experience which has been stellar even through the credit crisis that we've been through over the last couple of years.
On the CMBS side relatively speaking we have had actually a lower exposure than our peer companies at about $2.5 billion and we've had pretty good experience in that CMBS book also but some losses recently coming from some of the lower rated collateral.
But all in very good performance from what is a relatively smaller piece of the book.
On the RMBS side which is where we experienced our losses by and large in the last couple of years I'd say that today we sit in a very good position.
And that I think we've been through with the worst of the worst you really started to see -- if you break that book up into its component parts what you'll really see is sub-prime metrics really stabilizing across that book all the metrics getting very close to stabilizing and really the prime book really where you're experiencing any losses that you experienced today which have been relatively modest in recent quarters.
So in terms of both asset classes we feel very good about where we are today.
In a broader issue of the general account over the last 2 years Fred and team I think have done an amazing amount of work to clear out issues holdings that we believe are potentially subjected to more stress in an economically stressed environment so feel very good about where we are.
But you've heard us say this in the past it is credit at the end of the day that is the only item that has generated any capital losses for Lincoln over the years not the hedge program not interest rates it's been credit it's the only area.
So we feel very good about where we are.
That's the one area -- that's an area where we continue -- we're very focused on remaining cautious.
Randy I'm just going to use the example of Ashlock [ph] for example.
There was a period of time where they try to argue to the market that the European financial institution holdings that they have in their investment portfolio were money good and money good and that's all they preached for a really long time.
And it didn't matter whether they were money good.
What mattered was the fact that the market wanted to get rid of them and so they did or largely did.
So maybe you need to -- maybe the market's telling you that you need to reconsider the RMBS portfolio.
Yes.
Joanne let me -- we did quote there's one point I didn't speak to that you made on the RMBS side.
Of that $9 billion exposure fully $7 billion is agency RMBS.
And it's actually -- in terms of what the market thinks straighting up [ph] a significant premium to its amortized cost.
We feel very good once again Joanne just to reiterate very good about the things we've done inside the general account.
But we continue to invest what I would describe cautiously very highly rated investment-grade corporate commercial mortgage loans.
As I mentioned in my comments they really haven't seen value recently in the high-yield space and we continue to selectively de-risk where we see issues.
You've already won me over Randy.
So I'm just trying to figure why the market has your stock trading at 65% above.
Just about one last question and that is going back to the 09-G.
I thought that in the first quarter you gave an estimate of the impact of that was going to be about $200 million to $250 million.
Are you saying that that estimate is no longer accurate? Joanne I don't remember what you're referring to but we have not given any guidance on what the impact on results is going to be on 09-G because we simply don't know yet.
As I mentioned first half of the year was really about interpreting rules and sitting down with our auditors and getting them onboard with our interpretation.
It's really in the next quarter when we'll be determining what the impacts of those interpretations are.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Sjoreen.
Well I want to thank everybody for taking the time to join us on our call this morning.
As always we'll take your questions on our Investor Relations line at 1 (800) 237-2920 or via e-mail at our Investor Relations website.
Again thank you and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
You may all disconnect.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining Lincoln Financial Group's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Jim Sjoreen.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Tyrone.
And good afternoon and welcome to Lincoln Financial's Third Quarter Earnings Call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about liquidity and capital resources premiums deposits expenses and income from operations are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln's website www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to their most comparable GAAP measures.
Presenting on today's call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
And with that I would now like to call -- turn the call over to Dennis.
Thanks Jim and good afternoon to everyone.
We produced another quarter of very strong operating results with increases in operating income operating revenues deposits and flows particularly good momentum in our Group Protection and Defined Contribution businesses.
Highlights in the quarter include sales increases and positive net flows in nearly every business resulting in $5.5 billion of deposits and $2 billion of bonds net flows.
A 6% increase in operating revenues and a 54% increase in income from operations.
Also we accelerated our capital management activities which year-to-date includes $375 million worth of shares repurchases.
On a net basis our results this quarter were affected by abnormally volatile [ph] markets and other atypical items.
Randy will go into these in more detail in a moment.
Low interest rates and capital market volatility continue to drive headlines for this industry.
As we've shared previously although sustained low interest rates would impact the rate of earnings growth for Lincoln over time we do not expect low rates to materially affect the balance sheet.
Importantly given low rates we have taken and continue to take decisive action across the organization to protect aggregate margins.
For example as discussed earlier this year we entered into $1.3 billion of Treasury locks with an implied yield of 6.45% and extended the duration of the life portfolio.
We are actively repricing products as needed to reflect market conditions.
We are making strategic investments to grow revenues and earnings.
We are taking risk out of the organization and actively managing expenses.
We intend to cover several of these topics in more detail at our upcoming investor meeting.
Now turning to the highlights from our underlying businesses.
Sales in our life business were up 4% driven by our comprehensive portfolio of products and multiple distribution channels strategy.
We continue to advance our life offerings in the quarter by improving the competitiveness of our indexed UL product to take advantage of the growing market for these products.
Our strategy of maintaining a broad product portfolio and investing in unrivaled distribution has made Lincoln the #1 or 2 life provider in our top distribution firms.
In our Annuity business DA sales were up 7% while fixed sales were off given low interest rates.
Our consistent approach to this business continues to resonate with advisors and consumers and recent product enhancements such as the guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefit on our fixed product and a new fee-based variable annuity for the Registered Investment Advisor market are already gaining traction and should add results in coming quarters.
We had a healthy production quarter in Defined Contribution with a 15% increase in deposits positive net flows for the quarter and now positive net flows for the year.
We continue to gain momentum in this business as our investments in distribution technology and marketing come online.
Distribution expansion in both mid-large and small-case segments has propelled sales and pipeline development for this business.
Our Group Protection business experienced significant momentum including a 7% increase in nonmedical net earned premium and a 9% increase in sales.
We were pleased to see loss ratios stay inside our target range as actions we've taken including pricing changes on new and renewal business and claims management strategies have led to better results.
We launched a critical illness product this quarter to round out our voluntary offerings and we continue to evolve the distribution force to align the organization for increased productivity and position Lincoln to be a leader in the voluntary benefits market.
We continued to successfully achieve our distribution goals by leveraging the combined strength and reach of our wholesale and retail distribution systems.
At LFD we boosted sales by 8% among our Top 20 strategic distribution partners year-to-date and we continue to see increases in the number of advisors recommending Lincoln products and in wholesaler productivity in most product lines.
Wholesaler expansion efforts this year for MoneyGuard small case 401(k) and mid-large retirement plans are mostly complete.
Lincoln Financial Network continues to execute on its growth strategy by retaining top-level financial planners and attracting experienced recruits.
LFN has increased net active producers to more than 8 000 which helped LFN to meaningfully contribute to Lincoln's sales results in the quarter.
Our healthy capital and liquidity levels give us a surplus of strength that we are using to support our strong ratings and to cushion the company from possible event risk consequences including the evolving situation in Europe.
For the record we have almost no direct exposure to European sovereign debt and limited exposure to European banks.
Our high risk base capital levels are in part the result of general account management actions to de-risk the investment portfolio by rotating into higher quality assets.
In terms of capital management as I mentioned earlier we have completed $375 million of share repurchases and we are not done for the year.
Overall I am pleased with the underlying strength of the company the actions we are taking to navigate the environment and our solid momentum in key earnings drivers.
With that I will now turn the call over to Randy for more details on earnings and the balance sheet.
Randy? Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of $317 million or $1 per share for the third quarter.
Earnings benefited from continued top line growth with operating revenues up 6% disciplined expense management where the expense ratio declined to 9.3% and continued share repurchase $150 million during the quarter.
Return on equity was up nicely to 10.2% while normalized earnings were in line with reported earnings.
Book value per share excluding AOCI grew 10% to $41.27 per share and their overall capital position continue to strengthen with statutory capital expanding to $7.6 billion with a risk base capital ratio of approximately 500% after payment $250 million dividend for the holding company.
Cash of the holding company ended the quarter at $770 million.
Of note our net unrealized gain before DAC [ph] and tax grows to $6.2 billion with $3.2 billion attributable to the life segment.
I mention this because there tends to be a focus only on the liability side with the balance sheet when thinking about the impact of low rates.
The unrealized gain is the other side of that equation and is evidence of the strong ALM discipline which our businesses operate with.
We completed our annual review of assumptions in the quarter.
In total the impact of unlocking during the quarter was minimal.
Looking at this by segment.
Life results were negatively impacted by $8 million the most significant item of note in the life unlocking was a resetting of new money rates to current levels which negatively impacted results by $26 million.
Annuity results were positively impacted by $8 million including a $30 million benefit from a reduction in our ultimate last rate assumption.
Some of the annuity assumption changes also impacted net income which I will touch on in a moment.
DC and Group Protection experienced little impact from unlocking.
Net income was impacted by a number of items during the quarter which fell primarily into 2 categories investments and results in our annuity hedge program both a reflection of extreme volatility in the quarter.
Net realized losses and impairments totaled $28 million driven largely by non-agency RMBS as the volatility in the housing market persists.
Additionally in the investment portfolio we had a $69 million negative impact from mark-to-market assets primarily in our credit linked note holdings.
The underlying collateral experienced widening credit spreads.
I view this as noneconomic in fact we received an upgrade in the rating of 1 of our 2 credit linked note holdings during the quarter and have seen some recovery in value during October.
The hedge program results included a negative impact of $72 million driven by the reduction in our ultimate lapse rate assumption.
We also experienced $83 million of breakage in the hedge program primarily from 2 sources.
Fund spaces risk was roughly half of the impact.
I would expect to get this back over time has been our experience with this item.
The balance of the breakage was due to extreme volatility in the capital markets.
The variable annuity hedge liability increased $2.5 billion during the quarter and the hedge program was very effective covering well over 90% of the increase which is above the assumption we assume when pricing.
Offsetting these 2 items the MPR adjustment was $92 million.
In the steps supplement this quarter you will find a revised Page 6 which clearly details all of the above items.
Finally we recorded a $14 million negative impact from the finalization of taxes on the sale of Delaware and a one-time impact from calling a debt security.
Turning to segment results and starting with annuities.
Earnings during the quarter came in at $162 million or $132 million after normalizing for taxes and unlocking.
Operating revenues were up 8% on an 11% increase in average account values over the prior year.
Strong equity market performance in October should offset the headwind created by the fact that quarter and account balances were about $4 billion lower than the third quarter average.
In our Defined Contribution business we had a very good quarter with earnings coming in at $41 million.
Variable revenues and account values increased year-over-year in line with the markets roughly 7%.
While spreads held relatively steady at just under 230 basis points.
And the pre-tax margin in the quarter came in at 22% comparable to last quarter.
Turning to our Life Insurance segment I told you on last quarter's call that there would some line item noise in Life this quarter and you can see that in our results due both to the unlocking process and the continued conversion of our valuation platforms.
At a high-level the benefits and DAC amortization lines are where the majority of the noise occurred with the impacts essentially offsetting each other.
This line item noise should largely be behind us.
We can provide more detail off line.
Earnings drivers performed as expected with Life Insurance in force up 3% and account balances up 5% quarter-over-quarter.
Normalized interest spreads remained strong in the 190 basis point range and were in line with a year ago quarter.
Life earnings of $132 million were essentially flat with the prior year after giving effect for the notable items in both quarters.
Growth in the Life segment has been mapped by the fact that we have completed a couple of reserve financing transactions over the last year.
These transactions have freed up capital that we have allocated to other areas including share repurchase.
Mortality did increase in the quarter attributable to a handful of large claims.
Looking at the full year our experience continues to be better than price for mortality.
Turning to Group Protection.
We had an excellent quarter with all key metrics showing strong results.
Nonmedical net earned premium grew 7% sales were up 9% and the nonmedical loss ratio for the quarter came in at 71.8% continuing the trend of improvement this year.
Strong growth metrics combined with actions that we've taken over the course of 2011 to build up claims management and increased prices produced earnings of $28 million very much improved from a weak 2010 quarter.
Turning to expenses.
Expense management was strong during the quarter with expense ratios declining in both a sequential and a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Even as we continued to invest in key growth initiatives primarily in the Defined Contribution and Group Protection areas.
Let me spend a few minutes addressing the issue of low interest rates and share with you the information we've provided to the market.
In early September we provided a forward-looking perspective on how a sustained at 2% of 10-year Treasury rate would affect both the income statement and the balance sheet.
We said earnings would decrease by $50 million in 2012 with an incremental $50 million per year in 2013 and '14.
We also said that the balance sheet both statutory and GAAP would not be affected over the next 5 years outside of assumption changes.
Based upon what I know about the dynamics of the business I don't expect any meaningful changes and will provide more color at our investor conference.
Before moving to Q&amp;A I have a couple more items.
The expected impact of Regulation 09-G is detailed in the press release.
By and large the impacts appear consistent with estimates that I have seen in many of your reports.
Turning to capital management.
As noted earlier during the quarter we continued our capital redeployment activities the strength of our balance sheet and holding company free cash flow contributed to our ability to accelerate share repurchase activity in 2011.
Current plans already use holding company cash to pay up a $250 million debt maturity in the fourth quarter.
And as is our practice we will be reviewing our shareholder dividend with the board during the fourth quarter.
I look forward to discussing capital management further with you at the investor conference.
With that let me turn the call over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Suneet Kamath of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> My first question is for Dennis.
I guess in your prepared remarks Dennis you mentioned that in terms of share repurchases you're not done for this year.
Can you give us sort of what you're thinking in terms of fourth quarter sort of order of magnitude? Yes Suneet we're trying to avoid specific guidance.
I won't give you a specific number.
I would say though that the guidance around annual free cash flow continues to be important to us.
But we might back off of that this year a little bit if we continue to feel good about our conditions.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then maybe as a follow-up if you can just maybe Randy walk me through what happened with the RBC ratio this quarter because I think last quarter you said you estimated around 500% I think you're saying the same thing this quarter.
But you took a dividend out and then obviously the equity markets were down.
So if you can maybe help me reconcile how you stayed flat along with those other effects that would be terrific.
Sure.
During the quarter as I mentioned we took out the $250 million dividend.
Offsetting that we did do a reserve financing transaction during the quarter which picked up a couple of hundred million dollars of capital.
So that explains the movement in the total capital during the quarter.
On the RBC side we continue to see improvement in the general account which continues to push down the overall C1 factor so despite the fact that the general account in the company continue to grow you continue to see a less-than-normal growth in the denominator factor which allowed the overall RBC rate to stay in that 500% range.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just quick clarification.
Does that RBC reflect or include any of the captive subsidiaries that you have? And if not what would be the impact if we threw those in there? Yes it does include the majority of the captives that we have get rolled up into the overall results.
And next question is from Ed Spehar of Bank America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Randy following up on some of the statutory questions.
I think you've talked about stat earnings in the $600 million range surplus note interest I think is another $100 million.
When you look at reserve financings how should we think about this as a potential source of additional capital generation looking forward? And then I have one follow up.
Sure Ed.
Historically we've been able to do about $200 million in reserve financings a year which really has represented the growth in both the term XXX and the UL AXXX reserves.
This year we actually have done a couple of transactions so if we've seen a little more capital generation this year from the reserve financing line I would anticipate as we move forward that a couple of hundred million dollars a year is a reasonable estimate given growth in Term and UL across the organization.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when we think about sort of statutory capital generation then it's a number that's in addition to this $700 million by the reserve financings correct? Correct.
Research Division</strong> And one last question.
In terms of the overall strain from new business can you give us a sense of what your view is of the sort of statutory earnings power of just your existing book excluding sort of strain that you are having from the new business writings? Yes Ed I don't want to get into the details of splitting up the in force and new business.
I don't have those numbers at hand.
I would say in general if you look at overall required capital that the required in a normal year inside the Life company would grow roughly $250 million to $300 million.
So of those statutory earnings you referenced earlier I normally expect about $250 million to $300 million to be used up by growth in required capital.
Our next question is from Jay Gelb of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us an update on the potential for how the goodwill testing is coming along in 4Q? Yes sure Jay.
We're obviously -- we're in the middle of the analysis so I don't have the answer on where we're going to end up.
I'd like to focus really on what the primary driver of goodwill is and that's sales.
The most important thing that we can do to drive long-term value in this organization is to sell products that are in appropriate turns.
That's what we have been doing.
Dennis referenced a number of the pricing changes that we've made.
And that's what we're going to continue to do in the face of the economic environment that exists today.
So while the answer on goodwill is going to come out in the analysis let me be clear that we are going make the changes we need to make during appropriate returns on any new business that we sell.
Research Division</strong> To what extent would the stock trading below stated book have a meaningful influence on that outcome? It's an item at the end that you need to take into account.
I still think that the most important item driving goodwill is sales as I just referenced in my earlier comments.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on a separate issue there is some concern raised in the press about reserving for universal life can you give us your perspective on that? Yes.
Jay it's Dennis.
Let me start by saying that I have absolutely full confidence that our reserves are more than adequate and that we comply with this particular regulation.
I further note many of you probably haven't seen it but our main regulator at the State of Indiana came out with a statement this morning that essentially confirms what I've just said.
And with respect to where we are in this process this is at the ending I see that is this not the first time we've gone through this process on AG 38.
We went through it in 2005 and I believe we'll have the same result and that is that we'll come up with a solution that is satisfactory to all the parties.
We have a lot of smart people inside the NAIC that are practical and want to the right thing and we just need to work through this issue.
Research Division</strong> When do you think we'll get resolution on that? It's unclear.
Research Division</strong> And just one last follow-up on that.
What's the actual process that comes into play? I mean it's important that your primary regulator supports the reserving process but what needs to happen for the rest of the NAIC to support that as well? Well what's occured so far is simply we have a group of state actuaries looking at the issue.
They've come to some conclusions that aren't in fact entirely clear but then it moves up through a committee process at the NAIC.
Exactly how this will move through the committee process at NAIC is not clear at this moment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So hopefully we can get an update on that at the Investor Day.
Our next question is from Jimmy Bhullar of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on -- just if you could give us an update on your DC business you reported decent lows this quarter.
Have you seen any disruption as you move to the new technology platform? And is that starting to abate? And then secondly can you talk about incidence and the recovery rates in the Disability business.
Your margins have stabilized the past couple of quarters but they were -- the losses are elevated in 2010.
And if you can talk about the pricing environment of the business as well as any type of price actions that you are taking? First with respect to the D.C.
business the good news is that we're actually putting our first large case on this new system in the third quarter.
And that is going well.
We expect it to be executed very well.
As we said in past quarters some of the advisors that put us in the penalty box until they saw that we were in fact executing on this new administrative platform.
So I guess to the extent that we have moved now into implementation of specific customers onto the platform hopefully that will take us out of the penalty box with those 1 or 2 consultants that had put us in the penalty box.
So I would say that it's going very well and it should continue to improve optically in the marketplace with consultants.
And it will continue to be a good result for the customers as they get on to that platform.
The consumer or the employees themselves will have much better service much better access and we're really quite excited about it.
Jimmy on the group side we're still seeing the incidence level a little bit elevated from the historical level even though it continues to move towards that level.
I'll just say that in combination with the work with we've done in the claims management side the price increases we pushed through have us in a place that we're very comfortable with and we look for this experience to continue.
Research Division</strong> And are you seeing competitor behavior change at all in terms of pricing in the market in disabilities specifically? Well pricing in any of our products and all of our markets is a moving target.
I think the best thing I can tell you is that what we are being able to achieve in the Group Protection at the moment so year-to-date on our non-dental products we've been targeting around 3% we're getting about 4% a little bit more than 4% on our dental target.
On our renewal pricing we were targeting 8% we're getting about 9%.
So on a renewal pricing we're doing better than we'd hope for and so from our perspective that's a good outcome.
Our next question is from Chris Giovanni of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Randy a question on the interest rate commentary you had sort of -- you mentioned the earnings impact as well as the balance sheet impact and how that hasn't changed and don't expect really a material impact absent change in some of the assumptions.
Can you comment to the extent that you changed some of maybe the long-term yield assumptions or others? What -- how we should be thinking about sizing that up? Yes Chris.
Thanks for the question.
The only assumption I can really think of that as I look out over a 5-year period that would realistically be changed as I can think of it would be the long-term run rate assumption.
We've talked about a reduction in that assumption by 50 basis points is roughly $100 million.
I'd note that during the unlocking this quarter we did adjust our J curve.
We brought the front end of the J curve down to be consisent with where we're investing money today and that was about a $26 million hit to earnings during the quarter.
So what we've done is we've lowered the Jay curve assumption to reflect what we know and that's where we're investing money today.
When you look at the longer term where we have been investing over the -- if you look at the full spectrum of 2011 it's really right in line with what our J curve assumption is for the last couple of months it's dipped below but to change it now based upon what we know today just wasn't called for.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe for Dennis just in terms of capital management.
And obviously you guys are committed to share repurchases and make sense given where the stocks at.
But can you talk some about how you're thinking about sort of the dividend policy? Obviously you used to pay a higher dividend kind of just -- at what point would you start to think about trying to bring that back? We've been pretty clear all along myself as well as our board my management team believe in increasing the dividends at the appropriate time to a higher level certainly than it is at today.
We will review that decision with the board the decision to raise or not the dividend in a week or 2 at the board meeting.
Our next question is from Bob Glasspiegel of Langen McAlenney.
Just a follow-up on the NAIC task force you're comfortable they're going to come to their senses.
I appreciate that perspective.
Your comment letter in the journal they quoted you as saying that their position would needlessly constrain the capital position of companies.
If they didn't come to their senses how seriously would this constrain your capital position? The whole process is unclear at the moment.
All my letter did was repeat what their exposure draft said which is that the exposure draft would increase reserves.
But I want to come back to my comments that I made a few seconds ago.
I'm confident that our reserves are more than adequate.
I'm confident that we're in compliance with AG 38.
The State has just reconfirmed that for us publicly and the process is underway and it's unclear if what -- if anything will change.
Okay that's clear.
Would you you would disagree with the journal's characterization that your accounting is more on the liberal side versus others in the industry? I don't remember the Wall Street Journal attributing any conservatism or lack of conservatism in our accounting.
I think they've mentioned us as one of the companies that had made comments which we did.
But I don't think there's any -- to my recollection the article didn't say that.
Our next question is from Thomas Gallagher of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First is Randy I just want to clarify if you changed your aggregate earned yield assumption -- ultimate earned yield assumption by 50 basis points which at least this was on the life insurance product I think it was 6.25% down to 5.75%.
That would only be $100 million total impact to -- I assume that's just an all in sort of capture all balance sheet type impact.
Is that right? Yes that's correct.
We've lowered it 50 basis points last year and it had an impact of right in near of $100 million and we look at if we had lowered it -- were to lower it another 50 basis points it's another $100 million impact.
Of course any impact to that it runs through earnings and ultimately ends up on the balance sheet.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
The next question I had I just want to understand how to think about your RBC.
So the 500 RBC is that consolidated including the captive or is the captives stand-alone in the 500 just your lead life company? Yes.
We can get the complete details off line but yes when you look at the captives you have some that consolidate and some that don't.
But remind everyone is that you don't calculate RBC as if calculated for the blue book on a quarterly basis.
This is an estimate and that's why I say approximately 500%.
What we see is that capital continues to grow.
Things like the general account continue to improve in quality.
So very comfortable with the number as calculated.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And just stepping back for a minute can you get -- can you give us an idea of how -- if we looked underneath the covers within the captives how the performance of your VA liabilities -- and I'm thinking about thiss just from a statutory standpoint how the VA liabilities performed relative to the performance of the hedge assets? Were those a net loss did those look something like GAAP? Or maybe just provide a little clarity there.
Yes Tom I'd point you to the -- my commentary where I talked about the breakage.
So that breakage is essentially that it's the difference in movement between the assets and the liabilities.
So we had the breakage and we had the unlocking impact during the quarter both of which negatively impacted that result.
If you looked at the end of the third quarter we had assets that exceeded our liability by between $200 million and $300 million inside of the captive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so the breakage would look similar in terms of -- on a statutory basis in terms of the way this is disclosed? Yes our -- statutory of course is a different sort of calculation but the statutory liability at the end of the quarter actually is below our hedge target so you would have more of an excess over your statutory liability.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just last question is as I think about the statutory cash flow and the ability to do some securitizations to free up capital did -- let's just say you're able to do $200 million a year.
Are you essentially just accelerating earnings there? Like I'm just trying to think about this conceptually.
If what in a securitization you're basically selling getting cash upfront in exchange for future cash flows.
So aren't you just swapping future earnings for current -- for getting the cash in the door today? Doesn't that -- aren't you giving up future earnings in exchange for doing those transactions? Yes that's exactly right Tom.
You essentially are bringing some efficiency to your capital usage by bringing forward something that would happen over the next 30 to 40 years and recognize it today.
Our next question is from John Nadel of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones.
One is more of a check the box just to make sure my math is right.
Randy I think you mentioned $7.6 billion of stat capital at the end of the quarter and if you're -- is that equivalent to the numerator of what you would estimate at around a 500% RBC? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- in the past you guys have talked about the UL book of business and what proportion of that is currently at minimum crediting rate versus what proportion is not.
Can you just update us on where that stands? Yes I'll spend a little bit -- I'll talk about both Life and the D.C.
business.
We're getting close to our guarantees.
Both of those businesses are in the area of 8 -- have about 8 basis points of room left to the guarantees in total.
I would anticipate where rates are today that over the next 6 months we would move pretty much all the way to our guarantee based on actions we have in place.
And that's why you see when you move out past that the $50 million impact that I talked about as part of our interest rate sensitivity.
We have a follow-up from Chris Giovanni of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just want follow-up on sort of the management position that was created for Fred back in March of last year just see if there's any update given the I guess the volatile macro environment how you guys are thinking about long term whether it's changes in strategy or investment profile? Well we described in our remarks already the rotating of our investment selection process -- new money investments to a higher grade and that's helping with the higher investment grades.
We're doing quite a bit more work around stress testing.
The asset portfolio looking at different ways to get better results over the long term.
We have Fred and his team doing that.
There's excellent work being done and we're going to share some of those stress tests with you at the upcoming IRB meeting.
So I think you'll have an opportunity to see better and more completely what I'd see now which I think is pretty good work.
And the answer has been pretty good as well by the way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if we think about potential capital strain as we look out over the next couple of years I mean do you view capital strain more sensitive -- more sensitivity for you guys for each relative to equity markets or interest rates? Capital strain? Capital strain -- in the Life Insurance industry actual economic hits the capital typically come from investment losses and so that's why we focus a lot on talking about what we're doing in the portfolio.
Interest rates can also in some instances create some reserving changes for your verbal annuity business and we'll talk about all these things.
Yes I would just expand on Dennis a little bit.
It's credit that process capital strain with the hedge program we run against the variable annuity business you see the primary areas where you would have immediate stress from equity market movements or interest rates mitigated by the performance of that hedge program.
Our next question is from Edward Spehar of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up on the question about reserve fundings.
Randy isn't the issue though that it's the amount of capital that you have to commit upfront in the reserves which are deemed to be redundant and that's the reason that there's a securitization market or fund market that exist so that it's really helping with the strain of the business considering the reserving? Is that not correct? Yes absolutely.
What you're doing is you're bringing some efficiency your capital usage.
You're putting capital behind reserves that you deem to be in excess of what you should use from an economic standpoint.
You're not turning [ph] to reserve financing transaction so you can effectively release those reserves and use that capital in other areas.
Like we've done today as I mentioned as part of the Life business where these reserve financing transactions occur.
We've been able to free up that capital and put it to other more productive uses such as the share repurchase activity that we've done over the first part of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess the question that is it's not that -- if you have $600 million of stat earnings today that you're going to have $400 million of stat earnings next year because you've done a $200 million reserves securitization? As I mentioned the $200 million that -- of reserve financing -- you should remember that that would come out over the next 30 or 40 years on these books of business.
These are very long tail businesses.
So the annual impact of running into that is very small and it's more than overcome by the new business that we put on the book.
Ladies and gentlemen this ends the Q&amp;A portion of today's conference.
I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jim Sjoreen for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
And again as always we appreciate your time on today's call.
Just as a reminder as we've referenced in our remarks we will be hosting our annual conference for analysts investors and bankers on Tuesday November 15.
And information will be available on our website on how to join the webcast for that.
So as always we will take your questions any follow-up questions on our Investor Relations line at 1 (800) 237-2920 or via email at InvestorRelations@LFG.com.
Again thank you for your time today.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Speakers please stay on the line.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining Lincoln Financial Group's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Jim Sjoreen.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good morning and welcome to Lincoln Financial's Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about liquidity and capital resources premiums deposits expenses and income from operations are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to listen to Lincoln's -- listen and visit at Lincoln's website www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which includes a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to their most comparable GAAP measures.
Presenting on today's call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis.
Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
In the fourth quarter and the year we drove solid sales and net flows the result of our consistent approach to product and distribution and a continuation of what we achieved in each of the last several years including throughout the financial crises.
During 2011 we took steps to strengthen our franchise including: Reducing asset risk by investing in high-quality corporate securities; escalating share repurchases and debt repayment; repricing life and annuity products to ensure profitable new business; and investing significantly in Retirement Plan Services and Group Protection to increase earning power in future years.
Randy will speak to our goodwill review and end his comments.
In short we incorporated a tough economic and competitive environment for several years in our assumptions and the remaining goodwill asset is a solid number for the foreseeable future.
We accelerated our share buybacks in the quarter with another 200 million of shares bringing our total repurchases to 575 million.
As the year progressed we did increase our plan for share repurchases reflecting the good outcome of our balance sheet stress testing and the very low valuation of our shares.
We ended the year with a very solid balance sheet and deployable capital permitting share repurchases to remain a strong option for capital usage in 2012.
Turning to highlights from our underlying businesses.
Sales in our individual Life business were up 10% in 2011.
We saw a shift in the mix of sales over the course of the year with increases in variable universal life indexed universal life and MoneyGuard accompanied by a decline in secondary guarantee universal life.
The lower SGUL sales more pronounced in the fourth quarter are related in part to repricing actions that deemphasize single-premium type SGUL policies.
Our analysis showed that we would need to accept very low single-digit returns on this business in order to remain in the upper quartiles of competitive pricing.
This would not be selling on our terms.
Our sales mix and emphasis in 2012 would be similar to what we saw in the quarter on our core products.
Total annuities sales were flat for the year as we saw a 6% increase in DA sales offset by a 20% decline in fixed annuity sales.
Low interest rates affected fixed annuity sales.
We know annuities are important planning tools for consumers and we are confident in our ability to grow and manage this business profitably.
Steps we took in the fourth quarter to improve the risk profile and hedging cost variable annuities included implementing a managed volatility investment strategy on nearly $3 billion of in-force assets.
Additional changes we are implementing in April will encourage new sales to move into these low volatility options.
These changes will allow our clients to choose the benefits and investment flexibility most suited to their needs.
Late last year we announced a relationship with Primerica to be the only provider of indexed annuities on their platform and this quarter marks the launch of this program across the entire Primerica system.
In Retirement Plan Services sales increased 5% for the year and 16% quarter over quarter momentum building in the latter half of the year.
We also saw our second consecutive quarter of positive net flows bringing total net flows to more than $500 million for the year.
Our investments in distribution technology and marketing are beginning to take hold as evidenced by the sales results along with improved retention across all markets.
In addition all-new mid-large plans are now being onboarded to our new recordkeeping platform.
We expect to see the considerable progress we made in 2011 carry into 2012.
Our Group Protection business also turned in an excellent quarter.
Sales increased by 33% for the quarter and 12% for the year helped by our enhanced distribution structure and our expanded product suite.
Voluntary sales an area of emphasis for us increased significant in the quarter and we are well positioned to capitalize on opportunities in this growing segment.
Finally we are very pleased with how well the actions we took in pricing and claims management at the end of 2010 and early 2011 created a significant turnaround in results.
From a distribution perspective we expanded the strength and reach of both our wholesale and retail systems this past year.
At LFD our wholesale organization the number of advisors recommending Lincoln Solutions increased to more than 57 000 and the number of advisors recommending more than one Lincoln Solution a key measure of the depth of our relationships grew by 7%.
Lincoln Financial Network continues to execute on its strategy of retaining productive advisors and attracting experienced recruits which helped LFN to meaningfully contribute to Lincoln sales results in the year.
When you add up our robust product portfolio our proven distribution muscle the actions we took in 2011 to strengthen the franchise and our strong balance sheet we are well positioned to grow our business in the coming years.
With that I will now turn the call over to Randy for more detail on the quarter.
Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of $303 million or $1 per share for the fourth quarter.
Overall the quarter served as a high-quality end point to a very strong 2011.
Inside the operating earnings numbers there are a couple of items that I'll comment on.
First operating revenue declined 2.4% for the quarter compared to full-year growth of 4.5%.
The full-year results are more indicative of what I'd consider to be normal results as the fourth quarter had a few unusual items including alternative investment income and income from prepayments was down approximately $65 million from an unusually high fourth quarter in 2010.
And as you remember we had a fair amount of line item noise in prior period results as we converted valuation systems in our life area.
This negatively impacted the quarter-over-quarter comparison by roughly $50 million.
And lastly sales in the Group business were skewed to the last half of the year.
Revenues from those sales won't fully emerge until 2012.
The second item I'd note is that there was very little noise in the quarter.
There were a couple of items that offset each other but at a high-level normalized earnings came in at $1 right on top of reported results.
Turning to net income.
We reported a loss of $514 million that included a goodwill impairment of $747 million $650 million in our Life business and $97 million in the Media business.
Let me share a few thoughts on this year's goodwill analysis.
In Media we wrote down the remaining balance of the $97 million goodwill asset to reflect the fact that with growth in the current recovery somewhat muted we have not seen nor do we expect to see a turnaround in media valuations that we have experienced in past recoveries.
In Life Insurance we went through a very thorough process that involved a detailed review of assumptions affecting the valuation of the business including sales expectations and related profitability.
Reflecting the difficult environment that exists today we made the decision to hit all of the key assumptions that go into the goodwill analysis pretty hard for the next several years before we returned to more normal expectations.
The tough assumptions for the next several years is what drove the goodwill impairment.
So while I believe in the long-term value of the Life franchise I think that it was a prudent decision to take an impairment at this time as it best represents the expected economic climate and leaves us with a life goodwill asset that is supportable for the foreseeable future in a range of potential scenarios both good and bad.
After the goodwill impairment book value per share excluding AOCI stands at $40.19 down 2.6% on a sequential basis but up 5.3% for the year.
Other items affecting net income included net realized losses on investments and the results in our annuity hedge program.
Neither delivered any surprises.
Net after-tax realized losses totaled $28 million in line with recent quarters and the hedge program had excellent performance in the quarter recording a small gain.
The unhedged NPR-related reserve change caused a loss of $47 million as our credit spreads narrowed during the quarter.
As a reminder the NPR is pure accounting noise that will fluctuate between positives and negatives with no connection to the real economics of the Annuity business.
Turning to segment results and starting with annuities.
Recorded earnings for the quarter were $134 million.
Revenue declined 4% from the fourth quarter of 2010 on lower investment income from prepayments and equity markets that were relatively flat compared to 2010.
Net flows came in at $345 million down somewhat from last year as deposits dropped modestly while last experience remains fairly level.
We continue to have ample room to manage annuity interest spreads and expect to have little economic spread compression.
Any decline in reported spreads will be largely due to the fact that the products we sell today are priced to earn a lower spread than the in-force book.
In Retirement Plan Services earnings came in at $35 million on good momentum and deposits in flows as investments in this business began to pay off.
Similar to annuities revenues were down relative to the prior year quarter on lower prepayment and alternative investment income and lower expense assessments as average separate account values declined quarter over quarter.
Unlike the Annuity business we have relatively little room to lower credit rates in the retirement business and this led to some spread compression in the quarter.
Moving forward I would expect to see 3 to 4 basis points of spread for compression per quarter in today's earned rate environment.
Part of the overall spread compression guidance that we've given previously.
I'd also note that all products that we sell today are sold at very low guaranteed interest rates in the 1.5% range.
So that the impact of spread compression is something that should decline over time.
Turning to our Life Insurance segment.
Earnings of $154 million or $150 million normalized remained relatively stable relative to prior quarters after given effect for notable items.
Our earnings drivers performed as expected during the quarter with Life Insurance in force up 3% and average account balances up 5.3% quarter over quarter.
Early in 2012 we made some additional rate cuts that should maintain interest spreads through the first couple of quarters of the year.
After that I'd expect to see 3 to 4 basis points of spread compression per quarter in today's environment.
Once again this impact was included with our previous guidance on the impact of low interest rates.
Group Protection delivered another strong quarter and much improved results for the year.
Non-medical net earned premium grew 5% and the non-medical loss ratio for the quarter came in at 72.2% driving a more than 3 percentage point improvement in full-year loss ratios.
Earnings of $22 million were up 25% from the fourth quarter of last year but were down sequentially due to higher expenses as we got an early start on the strategic investments that we discussed at our November investors conference.
Before moving to Q&amp;A let me do a quick overview of 2011 and what I see as we move forward.
By any number of measures 2011 was an excellent year that demonstrated the strength of both our balance sheet and business model.
To name just a few operating earnings per share grew 33% as earnings grew 27% and our average share count benefited from active capital management.
As I mentioned earlier book value per share excluding AOCI grew over 5% despite the goodwill impairment we took during the fourth quarter.
Return on equity grew to 10.7% for the year benefiting from both strong earnings and share repurchases.
We were very active on the capital management front with 575 million of share repurchases $225 million of net deleveraging and strong growth in shareholder dividends.
I would note that capital usage benefited in 2011 from strong reserve financing performance and continued improvement in the credit quality of the investment portfolio.
And overall capital remains strong with life company capital ending 2011 at $7.6 billion up $500 million for the year.
A year-end RBC in the 500% range and $600 million of cash at the holding company.
Now as we move into 2012 let me provide a few comments.
We will continue to be prudent with our capital usage.
This means that you will see continued pricing adjustments in the Life and Annuity space to ensure that our returns on new business are competitive with other uses including share repurchases which we will continue with in 2012.
Absent other impacts I would expect capital usage on share repurchase and deleveraging to be governed by free cash flow which I'd size at about $400 million.
And while operating earnings growth will be capstoned by the implementation of 09-G investments in our group and retirement businesses and the headwind of lower interest rates I expect that earnings per share growth will benefit from share repurchases.
With that let me turn the call over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Ed Spehar with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Randy on your last comments could you be a little bit more specific when you talk about the $400 million of free cash flow? I think that has been the number that we thought about is for equity holders in terms of buybacks or dividends.
Maybe could you talk about -- is that the number? Or are you talking about that number is going to be to pay down debt as well? Yes Ed thanks for the question.
First let's talk about 2011 because I think it serves as a good platform for 2012.
We had a very strong 2011 from a capital usage standpoint.
$800 million on combined share repurchase in delevering.
Net benefited from a couple of factors that I don't think will necessarily repeat in 2012 although we'll do our level best to make sure they -- to try to make that happen.
Those 2 items were multiple reserve financings which we did over 2011 an improvement in the credit quality of the general account assets.
Those are items that you can't necessarily count on repeating.
But like I said we'll our level best to see that we'll do the best we can on those items.
As in any year looking forward the starting point for capital usage is free cash flow.
And that's roughly $400 million a year.
That's capital usage for both share repurchases and deleveraging.
Now I don't think we're going to be doing huge deleveraging as we go forward.
It's going to be modest deleveraging.
So I would say that the majority of that $400 million I would anticipate going into the share repurchase side.
So $400 million that -- it's the combined number I'd say it's skewed toward share repurchases and we'll do our level best to try to outperform on that number just like we did in 2011.
Research Division</strong> And just one follow-up.
Considering the -- what your outlook is for Life sales now over the next few years could you just give some sense of how much that might affect the free cash flow emergence over that period of time? I mean if you're right about the environment for Life sales I would assume there has to be some impact on statutory cash flow that would be favorable over that few year period? Yes it's Dennis.
It's about 1:1.
So just to pick a number of sales went down $100 million.
Free cash flow would increase $100 million.
And if that were the case it would be one of the levers that we'd use to increase our share repurchases.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us any sense of what the expectations are for sales that are built into the goodwill action? Ed I'm not going to get into the specifics of what's behind the sales levels.
Just let me reiterate we took a good strong run at all of the assumptions that surround the goodwill analysis including sales.
Our next question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up to Ed's line of questioning on RBC ratio.
I think Dennis in the third quarter call and then also at the Investor Day you'd kind of talked about the 500% RBC ratio and perhaps dipping into that a little bit I'm forgetting the exact terminology used but essentially allowing that come down to fund additional capital redeployment.
I didn't get the sense that that's what you were alluding to in terms of your comments and Randy's comment earlier today.
Is that still something that's on the table? Or how should we think about that? I think what Randy is saying is that we're guided every year at the outset of the year by free cash flow.
And that's just a fundamental approach that we take.
We certainly are very comfortable with the amount of or the strength of the balance sheet and don't have any hard and fast rule about not dipping into that if we think it's appropriate.
That's the excess capital.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Then I guess my other question just again goes back to the Investor Day where you showed those scenarios for a low rate environment and your I guess statutory reserve redundancy which if I recall was pretty significant I think in one scenario $8 billion in the more adverse scenario maybe $6 billion.
So I guess my question is is I'm not sure that the market truly is reflecting that level of cushion in your valuation.
I'm actual pretty certain it's not.
So I'm wondering if there's something that you could do maybe securitizing some of those excess reserves just to sort of prove to the market and to investors that these are truly redundant sort of by way of third-party affirmation.
Just wondering if you had any thoughts on that.
Suneet of course we're always looking at all aspects of our balance sheet to optimize capital usage.
And I'd point out in one of the comments I made when we do these reserves financings that's essentially a reflection of reserve redundancy.
We're essentially front ending what our redundant reserves.
And we did multiple reserve financings in 2011 generating roughly $500 million of capital over the course of the year.
So we will look at all aspects of our balance sheet look to what we have done as a reflection of the fact that there is definite redundancy in our balance sheet.
I'll go on to say I haven't seen anything different in the results from this year's cash flow testing process so far.
Of course we're in the middle of it.
I haven't seen any change from what we talked about at the investor conference in November.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Are there any constraints in terms of how much of that you could finance? See I can't think of any constraints on what we could do with our balance sheet.
There are a number of different options that companies have out there.
I don't have any anticipation of using large pieces of our balance sheet.
I'm pretty much guided by the fact that we have been looking at the redundant reserves specifically on secondary guarantee UL as an option for creating capital.
Our next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> A question on Universal Life.
I'm just wondering if Dennis if you have any update on the status of the NAIC's review of the sort of blended UL term product and the reserving requirements around that? Yes there was quite a bit of action toward the end of the year.
And consistent with some of my comments in November it continues to feel pretty good.
The NAIC is certainly looking for a solution that is appropriately gets the level of reserves to the right amount.
And at the same time doesn't so much increase reserves or change reserves that it's not a good consumer product.
So that -- everybody's got the right view which is let's get the right reserves but this is a valuable product in the marketplace and let's not do anything that would change that.
The other thing I would say is that they've taken a bifurcated approach at least at this moment in time.
That's what they've conveyed to us.
And that is that there would be a different outcome for new business versus in-force business and the industry was behind that bifurcation.
So to summarize I think it's going in the right direction.
The NAIC has got a lot of good people thinking about this the industry is actively participating impacting a result that is good for the regulators good for the companies and good for consumers.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for that update.
Just one more question.
I'm thinking more -- I was interested in your commentary earlier about the continued push towards these low volatility investment options that you mentioned inside I believe it's inside the VA accounts.
This is something we keep hearing about.
We keep hearing a big push into these types of funds across the variable annuity industry.
I'm curious if you've done any study or sort of risk assessment as to just how much assets can move into these low volatility type of funds before they run out of the -- before these types of funds begin to sort of break down around that mandate of continuing to hold the volatility levels low.
I'm not sure if you understand that I'm not sure if I worded that quite right.
Is it still a good consumer value? Is that...
Research Division</strong> Well I guess just more the risk more the risk of these low volatility type funds how much in the way of assets can they truly manage and still maintain that type of low volatility performance? Is there a point where -- is there a tipping point? I'd have to have our experts give us an answer on that.
We think it's a -- let's go into more detail on that question.
But it's a pretty deep market for the type of derivatives that we use inside the subaccounts and there's also choice.
But let me tell you what we're doing next year.
I alluded it to -- to it on my remarks.
But again back to this concept of giving our consumers flexibility and choice the action that we're going to take in the second quarter is that we would lower the limited benefit income guarantees by roughly 50 basis points and that would vary by income start age for those clients who do not allocate 100% of their assets to the protective funds.
So our actions go in the direction of quite a bit of money being put into these funds and our ability to manage it.
John I would just add as you're aware well aware one of the items that we're very proud of is the hedge team we have here.
And the hedge team has done extensive analysis of the protected fund product that we have developed and we'll roll out a little later in 2012.
And it definitely does reduce the risk profile of that product from Lincoln's standpoint.
And so we're happy with that.
In terms of the runway I think as with anything there is probably an ultimate amount that you can't get over but I think the runway ahead of us is pretty long in terms of the amount of that product that we can manage on our balance sheet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean that's sort of the point I was trying to get to is is at what point does an industry full chock-full of low volatility fund -- assets and low volatility funds.
Because you hear this from that you hear this from pretty much every one of your major variable annuity competitors just trying to understand how much runway is there.
Yes and I'll come back to just from -- that question in my -- again my earlier comments.
But we'll have 2 choices.
You can have more investment flexibility if that's what you would like but the guaranteed income will not be as high as it would be if you go into 100% in these protected funds.
Our next question comes from the line of Joanne Smith with Scotiabank.
Research Division</strong> I have a follow-up to John's question there.
Just with respect to the rapid increase of these types of low volatility funds and funds where a lot of the hedging is being done now at the contract level or the fund level.
I'm wondering what's the real drive to these projects? I mean I understand risk management by product design.
But I'm wondering if this has anything to do with the potential for the Volcker rule to impact the overall derivatives market? Or is it -- does it have something to do more with just the high cost of hedging and your desire to reduce those costs or maybe diversify the types of hedges you're using? I'm just trying to figure out why this rapid move into product design hedging versus derivatives hedging.
I can't speak for everyone.
But let me come back to our value proposition which is about choice.
And so what we are providing is choice.
And to repeat what I just said if you want to do 100% in protected funds in your subaccounts you're going to get a higher income guarantee than if you don't.
Some people will opt for the -- more flexibility in the subaccounts.
And of course we're well-positioned for that.
You may remember that at the investor meeting we talked about having the highest percentage of higher MorningStar rated funds in our lineup than any of our competitors.
Again an example of what we're trying to do from a flexibly standpoint.
So I can't speak to the entire industry.
I think generally the industry is trying to tighten up on risk but still provide a very good consumer value over the long term.
I think those of us who are have been responsible about the way we've built these products over time continue to believe in it and is just the normal evolution of risk and consumer value and where is the right crossover point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess as a follow-up just in terms of the life insurance sales.
When you're talking about the non-MoneyGuard UL your run rate based on the third and the fourth quarter is now at about $300 million in sales a year.
Is that kind of the run rate that we're looking at? Or you think that you're going to pull that back even more? Well we offer a variety of solutions in our portfolio.
Again we talk about this breadth of solutions to meet different customer needs.
At this moment in time we are shifting our emphasis in our sales and customers are buying a little bit more of our other other parts of our product portfolio.
So we're looking and again we don't give sales projections but we're looking to continue this concept of it's not all about SQL it's not about variable universal life it's not all about MoneyGuard but it's a combination of products that meet changing needs of the consumer over time and with our powerful distribution and product innovation that's what we're going to continue to focus on.
Our next question comes from Jamminder Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just -- the first I just wanted to just follow-up on Randy's comments on free cash flow.
The $400 million that you mentioned that's after whatever you're planning on paying out in terms of dividends on the stock right? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on my question given the pace of buybacks recently should we assume that the M&amp;A market's not that attractive because I think Dennis you mentioned group benefits and retirement businesses are potential areas that interested in.
But -- if you would just comment on what are you are seeing out there in terms of available properties? And should we assume that since you've been buying back at a decent pace the opportunity's not there right now? I think the M&amp;A market in the insurance industry except for those big deals that were done overseas has been fairly muted.
And that's because as the volatility that we've all experienced in the industry is -- can come down somewhat it's still fairly volatile.
And I think managements in general more comfortable with what they're doing than trying to go out and buy things.
So at a high level that's what I would say.
I also would say that when so many of the companies are selling at a discount to book the hurdle rate for doing M&amp;A gets higher.
And so the combination of just the uncertainty higher hurdle rates has chilled in large part M&amp;A transactions.
Having said that we continue to look for properties again against those constraints of share hurdle rate on share repurchases.
And over time there would be opportunities for Lincoln and other companies in the industry.
Research Division</strong> And then just on your goodwill charge.
If you can just give us some idea on what were the main drivers behind that charge whether it's lower sales expectations or low interest rates? And then you've still got $1.5 billion of goodwill in the Life business.
What gives you comfort at that remaining number? Yes Jimmy this is Randy.
Let's go through the whole discussion here and let's go with -- let's start with what we know.
And that's that we're a market leader in the U.S.
life industry.
And we expect fully that the Life business is going to be steady is growing profitable and valuable part of what we do over the long term.
Think about what a goodwill analysis is.
It's a point in time estimate of what is a 30-year projection of future profits from new business and it's subject to a variety a large number of assumptions including the ones we've talked about future sales levels profitability on those sales and the best discount rate to apply to those that income stream.
In our analysis we hit all the key assumptions pretty hard for the next several years really reflecting a difficult environment that the industry finds itself in.
And then we return to more typical expectations in the out years.
So we have tough assumptions for the next several years is primarily what caused the write down.
I think as everyone is aware we've talked about it a number of times.
We've made several pricing changes.
And the market as we look at it today has been has been somewhat slow to follow even though you see it's starting to pick up.
This affects our near-term competitiveness and so we expect this to impact us in the near term in the near to medium term and we think that will even out over time.
If you look at overall conditions today we expect that the profitability on those new sales is going to be towards the lower end of our target range.
So you've seen our target range.
We just talked about our target range as Mark talked about it extensively at the IRB we expect given what we see in the environment that will be at a lower end of that range.
So you've got a competitive environment you've got profitability at the lower end of our range and then you have the additional fact that even though market interest rates were down we did see the discount rate that we would apply to this business follow.
So even though the market rates were down which would have normally imply that the discount rates would come down we didn't see that impact occur.
So all of those things we took into account.
As imagined we hit pretty hard as we went through the analysis.
Again the goodwill charge that we took does not alter in any way our view of the long-term liability of Lincoln's Life franchise.
And just to put an end point on that.
We think this is a good asset for the foreseeable future.
We hit the assumptions hard to repeat what Randy and I have both said.
There's no algorithm here that you stick in 1 level of sales at 1 discount rate you get an answer.
You look at everything in the aggregate and decide what's the best goodwill number.
That's what we've done.
We think it's a good number.
We don't expect it to change in the foreseeable future.
And that concludes my comments on it.
Our next question comes from Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm going to hope to try and follow up for a little bit more quantification.
So as far as hitting the market dynamics hard is it possible for you to give us a little more color on how long you held rates low at what level? And maybe I guess you don't give sales guidance but give it a little more parameters around that.
And I guess the final piece I'm looking up -- to final up on is just to kind of to explain how these assumptions got worse relative to the previous assumptions but why there's no necessary impact to the GAAP or statutory outlook for the same book of business? Yes Randy.
Once again I'm not going to get into the specific actual numbers.
But let's go over some of the facts again.
You talked -- yes you think your first part of your question revolved around the discount rate.
Now despite its very nature the discount rate is something that gets applied for the entirety of a 30-year projection.
So we didn't assume a higher rate than go down in the outyears.
The discount rate as I mentioned did not follow market rates down.
That impacts the entire 30-year stream of income that we discount.
In terms of actual sales numbers once again we don't -- we don't give sales guidance.
We link our goodwill analysis from a sales standpoint very closely to our plan.
We have a strong history of hitting our plan.
So I'm very comfortable with where we ended up in terms of the sales that are inside of the goodwill analysis.
Once again it was a near to midterm thing.
We believe that when you look in the out years you'll see most competitors start to respond raise their prices et cetera.
So you'll see that competitive positioning coming back.
And you'll see all those sales return.
The strength of the Life franchise hasn't changed one bit by what we've done here from a goodwill analysis standpoint.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow up.
Why specifically did the discount rate not follow prevailing rates down? What was the mechanism for those to separate? Yes I mean it's really judgment at the end of the day right? I mean you can simply do a cap and an -- capital analysis a market-based analysis of the discount rate and we do that.
We actually hire an outside firm to come in and do that analysis.
They look at the risk-free rate.
They look at our beta and all the items that go into an analysis like that.
And their input back to us was that the discount rate had actually fallen.
Against that we need to look at the overall marketplace that we live in today.
And when look at that marketplace and we talk to other market experts it was our belief that the market discount rate just hadn't come down like the capital markets model would have said.
In fact we felt that it had gone up a little bit and we reflected that in our model.
Our next question comes from Andrew Kligerman UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just around the sales the variable annuity products came in down 8.5% in the quarter.
And then just noticing that a lot of your competitors are kind of retrenching on the generosity of their product.
I would have expected maybe an uptick.
So can you comment around why you think the variable annuity sales were off? And where you see them going over the course of the next year or so? Andrew it's Dennis.
Again thinking market share in this business is easy if you want to provide a very competitive and rich product for the consumer.
We haven't done that as we've talked about and we continue to make changes which give good consumer value and options to our consumers but continue to improve risk-reward trade-off for the company and our shareholders.
The comments about competitors and again there's always going to be competitor movement in the marketplace.
I think the fourth quarter there may -- you may see some bigger numbers from some of the competitors as you point out because the products are getting they are coming back to where we are if you will in terms of richness.
And while they weren't you were seeing big numbers.
So what I would say is that the demographics are strongly behind this product.
Lincoln and I think the rest of the industry is doing a better risk-reward trade-off of -- in their product design.
And I think Lincoln and the industry is going to continue to see good profitability and good growth from these products in the coming years.
Again coming back to the importance of them to the consumer for guaranteed income and the demographics.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe on the Retirement Plan Services.
A little more color on why the mid-markets product was so strong up 29% or the mid-large markets rather? And then why maybe the micro-product and the multi-fund product were weaker? Maybe just a little color around that.
Yes Andrew the momentum that we picked up across the market really is a direct result of our new administrative platform the direct result of the increase in feet on the street more people talking to more people about Lincoln and we won some big cases.
And so I think it's just fundamentally the investments we're making and we're beginning to see the payoffs.
Just the way I would explain the year and the fourth quarter.
I also think it's important that to mention or repeat what I said in my remarks not only are sales better but our retention numbers are quite a bit better.
This comes back to how we're managing distribution right now because retention is part of distribution salespeople's compensation.
So that's helped.
If you look at the overall retention rates this year it was 12.8% down from 15.3%.
I give these examples as just trying to create the whole picture which is momentum building because of the investments we're making and the payoff from those investments.
Research Division</strong> And just a little color on maybe some of the weakness in the other fund sizes micro and multi-fund though? That multi-fund is not an active product.
So the only sales that come through from multi-fund are existing client's renewals individual employee renewals.
Research Division</strong> So that would be -- that should taper off and then on the micro? Yes.
Excuse me? Research Division</strong> And then on the micro-funds? Yes.
Again a lot of expansion going on there and we'll see good results coming out of that eventually.
Distribution expansion.
Does that help? Research Division</strong> Perfect.
Our next question is from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess a couple of follow-ups here.
First referring back to the VA and the low volatility funds.
It -- I guess my question is is it cheaper for you less expensive for you to be hedging on a subaccount basis rather than I guess for lack of a better term more micro-hedging that you've historically done? Yes it's absolutely less expensive to hedge these protected funds than the broader portfolio of equities and bonds.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the going back to the SGUL discussions sales discussions and what we have just.
I guess my question here is to what extent the pricing has reflected? And maybe to what extent and obviously how that fits into the goodwill impairment the bifurcation approach that the NAIC looks to be taking.
It's -- clearly it's the use on new business the LATF methodology.
You'll at least have to do more.
You'll have more fixed-year reserves you'll have to do more financing that will affect GAAP I would imagine.
And you may be hopeful but I think there's a better chance of the Great Pumpkin showing up than a principal base reserving.
So did that play a role in all of this that's going on? Well let me try to -- there's quite a few questions in there.
Let's speak to AG 38 and what might be the outcome of AG 38.
And first I'd put us all on the same page.
The AG 38 interim solution that's being developed right now is simply that.
It's an interim solution.
And it's going to apply again retroactively it's one -- there's one approach and new business going forward there's another approach.
But that in itself a new business going forward is eventually going to be the reserves are going to be based on risk based not risk based capital excuse me...
Principals-based.
Principals-based reserving.
And it's been the expectation for the last 5 to 7 years that principal-based reserving will increase the pricing on some products and lower the pricing on other products.
And at least historically the expectation is that it would likely lower the reserving on guaranteed universal life.
So at this point I would make the comment that we've got to look to principal-based reserving for the long run reserving practice on the business.
And this interim solution if it's a little bit harsh on new business if it were I don't know that it would be it would be corrected by principal-based reserving.
So that's what's going on.
But let's back up.
This is one of the best products in the industry for key planning purposes particularly estate tax planning.
And so there's going to be pricing elasticity and as I said the focus throughout this entire process has been the right level of reserves and a good consumer product.
So I think at the end of the day this will work out fine from those perspectives.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay Dennis if I can paraphrase what you just said and tell me if I got it right basically the message here is we're not doing anything haven't done anything with regards to this temporary bifurcation approach because we're confident that something will happen on PBR and and in the end will be great.
Is that fair? Say that again please? Inc.
Research Division</strong> What I'm hearing from you is there's a bifurcation approach.
It may be harsh on new business but that's going to be temporary.
PBR comes in things will be fine the profitability will be there.
We don't have to do anything in the meantime with regards to pricing.
Well...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All else equal.
Yes all else equal our repricing does anticipate some increased reserving requirements.
But I think I'd like to separate this AG 38 issue out from just the general reserving and the conservatism that we use.
There is a indirect link but you really don't know what's going to happen with the NAIC solution.
And so we're continuing to build our products around what we think the right reserve level is.
And I'll say again we've increased that somewhat in our new pricing.
And I think that we're pretty good at what we do.
And I wouldn't expect what's going on the regulatory side to be too far different from what we're doing over time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'm sorry to keep beating this.
But now I get -- Now I'm hearing something else because historically the argument from your point of view is we got plenty of extra reserves.
In fact as Randy mentioned we can finance these things.
So why assume reserving is going to be higher in the future? Why build that in? If you're looking at PBR? Yes.
Let me -- I'm trying to weave the whole story here and maybe you're picking pieces that belong to one story or the other.
But let me ask Randy to answer that question.
Yes.
So let's break this down.
We're pricing a new product and when we price that product we need to assume a level of reserves that we're going to hold.
We've increased the assumed reserves that we're going to hold as part of pricing.
Separate from that if those reserves are above some economic level of reserves you can finance those reserves.
Now financing of reserves isn't free it also has a cost.
So you have the base level of reserves that you've assumed inside pricing and that effectively has an equity type cost right? Anything above that if you felt that level was above economic and you could assume a financing cost which is lower than an equity cost.
But in terms of what we're putting in pricing that base level of reserves which gets some equity type cost inside of your pricing model we have increased that.
Because we believe that the amount of required reserves as part of a new approach will go up.
Now we don't know what the final number is and will adjust to whatever in that final number is and will adjust quickly.
But for right now we've assumed that it will go up some and we'll reflect that in our pricing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the costs in the base level of reserves that you would -- you'd have to hold is going to be greater than the...
Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The financing basically? Effectively to think about how it works in a pricing model that base level of reserves that amount you don't finance has an equity type cost.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Glasspiegel with Langen McAlenney.
I'd like to follow-up on Randy versus Randy's exchange.
Specifically interest rate sensitivity to your assumptions -- if the 10 year stays at 2 or 10 years and the credit spreads stay where they more traditionally have been what sort of return on capital are you getting on new business and the Life business today? So Bob let's talk about this.
We've been chasing over 2011 rates down right? So we've made multiple assumption changes and pricing changes inside of our Life products.
When we've made those changes we've targeted getting a return in the low double-digit area.
As rates have continued to fall we've needed to continue to adjust our pricing.
So we've trailed that a little bit through 2011.
Now looking forward as I mentioned we've repriced our products in today's interest rate environment to get a return at the lower end of our target range.
So based upon the rates that sit here today we are pricing our products to get a return at the bottom end of our targeted range low double-digits.
That's the entire book of business.
Remember...
Right I know the other business' bid price in different interest rate environment so...
And we don't just sell secondary RTUL or money where we sell up.
Broad book of business some of which gets 13% some of which may get 10% it all blends together into a low double-digit type of number.
So you're assuming sort of -- there's a discount rate of 2% plus credit spreads over the life of the product that you're pricing today? That's sort of inherent question.
Yes Bob we're looking at pricing in a number of different ways.
We're looking at pricing if rates stay at level if they followed a forward curve if they follow at our J curve.
We're looking at assumptions that cover the breadth of potential outcomes and we're trying to make sure that we get a reasonable return in those all of those scenarios.
So based upon what we're doing today we expect that we will get the returns just as I said Bob at the lower end of our target range in the low double-digits.
Okay.
So if the 10 years stays at 2% for 10 years there wouldn't be any charges related to business that you're writing today? I'm going to back to our the investors conference where we were very clear with the impact of a low interest rate environment for an extended period of time and we don't see any hit to capital with the potential -- with outside of the potential need to lower our long-term earn rate assumptions aside of our jack [ph] models we talked about that the impact of that last time was about $150 million.
So there's the potential that we would do that again should rates stay low for a long period of time.
But in terms of the reserves we don't see an impact on the reserves due to the interest rates staying low for an extended period of time.
Okay.
Last question corporate what's the run rate? Corporate earnings? Yes.
Just for the corporate line yes.
Yes I'd put them in the negative 35% range.
Yes maybe I'll just Bob if you don't mind I understand the question.
But it's been a little tough for the Life business.
We continue to make pricing changes to improve the new business ROEs as we've said for the next couple of years we might be at the lower end.
But I'd also like to remind you and others on the call that we're getting very good ROEs in the balance of our businesses.
So the Annuity business the VA still is in the mid-teens we're getting low teens overall and Group Protection business we're in that 12% range and in our Retirement Plan Services we're pricing for and getting pretty close to the 12% 15% ROEs.
So yes we're working hard to get the Life ROEs up but we've got balancing and better ROEs in the business lines.
Our next question comes from Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I'll make this quick I mean everything was hit pretty hard.
Just a question on group insurance.
I was a little surprised by the strength in sales there.
Can you just talk about what rate increases you're pushing on that? And whether those were part of the Q4 sales or really Q1 '12? Yes let me talk about renewing renewal pricing and Mark touched on this at the IR meeting.
We get a non-dental we're 4% improvement a little bit north of 4% improvement during the year.
On our dental product we're targeting 8% and we got up to 9%.
So we've seen nice improvements on renewals.
It's a little more difficult to translate that into new business but it's not going to be too far away from our new business results.
The strong fourth quarter was really driven by again we talked about this change in our rep structure we've got quite a bit more alignment with our reps quite a bit more activity.
The fourth quarter we saw a growth across our products and segments.
So there was no reliance on any one facet of the business.
As I noted we're seeing continued success in selling employee paid solutions what we call voluntary both our traditional group products and our new worksite products.
And we also remain focused on our core strength and the other 1 000 lives.
So I would say it's a very good solid across-the-board result which did include pricing increases.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But just outside of dental no real range around kind of the average rate increases? Outside of renewals you mean? Research Division</strong> No no outside of dental I think you gave 4% on dental? Non-dental 4%.
Dental 9%.
It's harder to give you price increases on new business.
Research Division</strong> Yes no I meant renewal.
That's fine.
Okay.
Our next question comes from Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions regarding the Life business that follow-on the earlier questions.
First it's my sense from hearing from and talking to lots of life insurance agents that price increases are taking place broadly throughout the industry.
If I'm right about that and I've heard it from several agents I tend to think I am why does Lincoln think it's going to lose share? If everybody is in the same boat so to speak why are you predicting lower sales than you have been predicting? And then I have a couple of real quick follow-ups.
Yes Eric what we said is that the industry hasn't been as quick to follow our pricing changes but that we would expect over time for them to do that.
It's -- there's a lot of different cells if you wish.
But on single pay deal at -- in the fourth quarter we're off as much as say a male of 55.
We were off as much as 17% from the price leaders.
We expect those to change in 2012.
But that was the reality and that affected our competitive support because we don't know how fast the industry's going to move and catch up with us.
We have more pricing stages coming out in the first quarter.
We think eventually and that may be by midyear or just later in the year that this will all even out.
But right now we're not usually we're leading the market on pricing change.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a couple of real quick follow-ups.
In the narrative of your news release describing in detail the goodwill write down and in your comments today you discussed not only the effect of lower interest rates and your need to raise prices as a result.
But just these are my words not yours but I think I have the right idea.
The generally tougher environment for life insurance products I'd like to know one what did you mean by that? The generally difficult environment for Life insurance products apart from the interest rate issue? And relatedly why can't you price? Why are you contemplating or why you pricing your new products at the lower end of your targeted range? What prevents you from pricing in the middle or the high end of the range? Yes Eric it's always a balance right? We've talked about capital usage and how we are being very cognizant of all returns available when we use capital.
And what we've said is that on new business we're going to price those products so that we get a return when you view everything that goes in to the future for Lincoln and the future value that's going to drive shareholders.
Things like protecting the franchise.
So we take all of those into account.
And when we do that right now when we look at the marketplace and we strike that balance as Dennis said the pricing changes we've made have put us well out of the marketplace in a number of areas.
And we take all that into account and I think about the return I'm comfortable with defending on Life sales that's exactly where we've moved to.
So Eric I think we've made pricing changes that when you think about a total balance get me very comfortable with the returns we're getting on those new business sales.
Now the industry is going to respond and you'll see this all shake out so that those returns will move up over time.
But for a period of time when I think about that balance I'm very comfortable with the returns we're getting that it represents a reasonable return on capital taking into account all the potential usages.
Now all that aside been very aggressive on the share repurchase front because I realize that is a compelling return from a capital usage standpoint.
LLC Research Division</strong> But my question Randy was a little different from the one you answered.
I think I appreciate your answer but I was actually trying to hone in on something a little bit different which was that and maybe I'm making a -- maybe I'm inferring something that you didn't intend.
But here is my thinking that in the news release as well as today you were saying there's more stuff going on the life insurance business today besides just low interest rates.
It's an overall difficult environment for life insurance.
If I'm reading you folks correctly what are you saying is going on structurally in the life insurance business beyond low interest rates that we need to understand? Yes Eric I mean I would say that whatever is going on in the marketplace derives from interest rates right? So life products in general perform better at a higher rate environment than they do in an environment that we're in today.
So all of the dynamics that are going on in the marketplace derive from the fact that rates are low and that's causing companies we believe are in the forefront of these changes to adjust their products to move into and out of certain markets to make all sorts of changes.
So you just have a lot going on in the marketplace.
But it's all deriving from the fact that rates are lower and companies are adjusting to that fact.
At this time I'd like to turn it over to our speakers for any closing remarks.
I want to thank you all for joining us today.
As always if you have any follow-up questions please contact us at our Investor Relations line at 1 (800) 237-2920 or via e-mail at our website.
Again thanks for taking the time and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good morning and thank you for joining Lincoln Financial Group's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Jim Sjoreen.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and thank you for everybody on the line.
We were delayed since we were waiting for people to queue up on the call.
So good morning and welcome to Lincoln Financial's First Quarter Earnings Call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about liquidity and capital resources premiums deposits expenses and income from operations are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln's website www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to their most comparable GAAP measures.
Also please note that the financial results for this quarter and all prior periods reflect the adoption and retrospective application of the new DAC accounting guidance.
Presenting on today's call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis.
Thank you Jim.
And good morning everyone.
Overall it was a very strong quarter for us with all of our businesses delivering good results.
Let me share some highlights.
We ended the first quarter with operating return on equity north of 11% on book value per share growth of 4.5%.
The revenue growth in excess of 3% was also an indicator that we are delivering on many of the plans we have discussed during the past year.
Specifically increased deposits and net flows in Retirement Plan Services and increased sales in Group Protection demonstrate that the strategic investments we are making in these areas are paying off.
In addition we are successfully executing the strategy to direct Life sales to higher return products.
I will speak more about this in a minute but this pivot strategy is something we have shared with you in the past.
And finally our strong capital development from earnings combined with our view that our share price remains undervalued led us to accelerate our share buybacks.
Let me now comment on our underlying businesses.
Life Insurance sales for the quarter were $122 million down from a year ago.
This decline was expected primarily as a result of pricing actions taken on our secondary guarantee universal life product  [indiscernible] to continued low interest rates.
In implementing our changes many companies have followed our lead in the making similar price adjustments but not all of our competitors have taken action yet.
Having said this our pivot strategy again moving to higher return life products is taking hold.
Sales of our indexed universal variable universal and term life products were collectively up 11%.
Moving forward our ability to continue executing this strategy and produce strong results will be driven by the breadth depth and capability of our distribution team.
This strength gives us an edge when bringing to market the right consumer solution [indiscernible] appropriately.
Turning to the annuity business.
In life [indiscernible] the variable annuity competitive landscape has shifted in recent months.
I believe that the majority of companies that remain in this space offer good consumer value and price their products appropriately.
At Lincoln Financial we are pleased with where we are positioned in the industry.
And we have maintained a consistent market presence.
As I have said before we remain more interested in offering products on our terms using sound pricing assumption than we are on taking market share.
Positive net flows in the quarter helped drive record annuity account balances of $92 billion.
Variable annuity sales for the quarter were up 8% sequentially driven primarily by strong equity market performance and consistent with overall industry trend.
Involving the design of our income product by recently introducing a series of protected funds is a good option for consumers and is also good for Lincoln.
Good for consumers because they can lower the volatility of the returns and good for Lincoln because they reduce our hedging costs.
Fixed annuity sales in the quarter were down due to low interest rates.
We are very pleased [indiscernible] that our new strategic partnership with Primerica has already generated $50 million of indexed annuity sales through April.
Our relationship with Primerica gives us access to the middle-market broadening our distribution and product reach to this large consumer market and helping to diversify our annuity product offerings.
In our Retirement Plan Services business our strategic investments notably in technology upgrades and in the expansion of our wholesale and network helped us deliver solid results.
Total deposits of $1.5 billion were up 13% versus the prior year resulting in our third straight quarter of positive flows.
Our strong performance this quarter was paced by significant growth in the small market with new sales coming in at $190 million up 74% from the prior year.
In addition recurring deposits of $1.2 billion grew 15% from the prior year reflecting the success of our 300-person work site distribution team getting participants to enroll and consolidate their assets with Lincoln.
In Group Protection first quarter sales of $67 million increased by 47% from soft results in the year-ago quarter.
Sales strength is broad-based and helped by an increase in voluntary sale which is our strategic direction.
Looking ahead our distribution strength our competitive product suite and continuing strong proposal activity position us well to capitalize on opportunities in the group marketplace in the near and long-term.
Turning to distribution.
Retail wholesale and work site distribution remain a source of strength for Lincoln.
These networks help drive the company's strategy by executing on our product pivot strategy in life positioning through protected funds in annuities and leading accelerated sales growth in our Retirement Plan Services and Group Protection businesses.
Combined our distribution networks open us up to new markets and drive consistent productivity.
Before I turn over the call to Randy for his comments let me close by saying that we have a very strong franchise and a sound balance sheet to go with it.
The progress we have made through short-term actions that respond to macroeconomic trends and through long-term investment strategies that chart future growth combined to help drive increased operating ROE and book value growth we experienced this quarter.
With that I'll turn things over to Randy.
Randy? Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of $296 million or $1 per share for the first quarter.
Similar to last quarter there was very little noise in the reported results with normalized earnings coming in at $1 right on top of reported results.
Overall the results were consistent with our expectations and I described the quarter as both high quality and reflective of many themes that we have discussed over the past year.
First that we have a business model that will generate growth even in a low interest rate environment as demonstrated by year-over-year normalized earnings growth of 3%.
Second that our strong capital position will allow us to continue to return capital to shareholders as we executed upon another $150 million of share repurchases during the quarter.
This along with previous buybacks led to normalized EPS growth of 12%.
And third that we would be making investments in key growth Businesses.
While this is negatively impacting current earnings it is building the platform for future earnings growth.
Let me provide some color on the G&amp;A picture.
In the space G&amp;A increased a little over 9%.
I'd note that roughly 1/3 of that increase was due to pure accounting driven noise around how on [ph] accounts and elements of differed comp with the offset to the expense coming through a lower share count.
The remaining increase is made up of normal expense growth and strategic investments that we are making.
Looking forward I don't expect large increases in the strategic investment component relative to what we experienced in the current quarter.
The key valuation drivers of book value and return on equity both improved during the quarter with book value per share excluding AOCI climbing nearly 4.5% to $37.25 while ROE came in at 11.2%.
Turning to net income.
We reported net income of $245 million for the quarter.
The only item of note affecting net income was the unhedged NPR reserve which caused a loss of $84 million.
Outside of the noneconomic accounting noise that is the NPR our annuity hedge programs and general account both had excellent quarters.
Turning in a $34 million gain between the 2 items.
Turning to segment results and starting with annuities.
Reported earnings for the quarter were $137 million.
Revenues were flat compared to the year-ago quarter and up 6% sequentially.
Expense assessment growth during the quarter was muted roughly 1% by the fact that the majority of writer fees are assessed against the guaranteed account value.
This will typically produce slower growth in rising markets and a more stable revenue stream in falling markets.
Interest spreads remain strong in the annuity business.
Looking forward I expect to see only minimal pressure in economic interest spreads with any decline primarily to new business that will put on with lower required interest margins.
As I've spent time with analysts and investors it's becomes obvious that there are those who struggle with the risk-reward dynamics of the annuity business.
From my seat I want to note how comfortable I am with this business whether it's the return profile that we've experienced over the years the demographics that drive demand for our products or our industry-leading VA hedge program we have shown and we will continue to show that the annuity business if approached in the right way is a great business.
Retirement Plan Services produced another solid quarter all around.
Earnings of $35 million were driven by higher account values that hit a record $42 billion in the quarter.
Interest spread performance was very good during the quarter with rate cuts offsetting the impact of lower reinvestment rates.
Looking forward I'd expect to see spread compression of 10 to 15 basis points a year but I'll remind you that all products we sell today are sold at very low guaranteed interest rates in the 1.5% range and that will mitigate the impact of spread compression over time.
Return on assets came in at 34 basis points for the quarter.
We are seeing a shift in Retirement's business mix that will result in modest declines in ROA of 1 to 2 basis points a year.
Although we expect this impact to be more than overcome through strong growth in sales and assets.
Turning to our Life Insurance segment.
Earnings of $142 million were flat with the prior year quarter.
Earnings growth in the Life segment is muted by the removal of capital related to reserved financing transactions that we did last year.
This negatively impacted the current quarter's earnings growth by 6% relative to the first quarter of 2011.
Of course we've used the capital freed up by those transactions to support the share repurchases that we've done over the last year.
When viewed in total impact has been a positive for EPS.
Reported revenue growth of 7.5% was elevated by the work we did in 2011 migrating to a single valuation system.
I'd put normalized revenue growth in the range of 5% consistent with account balances that grew in excess of 5%.
Interest spreads increased in the quarter relative to the fourth quarter of last year due to interest crediting rate actions taken during the quarter.
Looking forward I'd expect to see 10 to 15 basis points of spread compression per year in today's rate environment.
This is consistent with our prior guidance on the impact of low interest rates.
Group Protection business delivered a strong quarter of top line growth as premiums grew 6%.
Elevated mortality caused a roughly 1 percentage point increase in the loss ratio relative to the first quarter of 2011.
This pushed the loss ratio just outside the high-end of our expected range of 71% to 74%.
We have analyzed this quarter's mortality experience and see this quarter as nothing other than one of those mortality blips that will occur from time to time.
On the disability side incidence has returned over long-term expectations.
I see this as a positive as we look forward although as long as the economy stays muted I will retain a note of caution on my positive outlook.
Before moving to Q&amp;A let me touch on a couple of additional topics.
First on capital and capital management.
Life company capital remained level during the quarter at $7.6 billion as strong statutory earnings of approximately $250 million were offset by dividends to the holding company of $150 million and a reduction in our deferred tax asset.
RBC came in at approximately 500% down slightly from year end.
And cash at the holding company exceeded $800 million at the end of the quarter as we took advantage of favorable markets to prefund our third quarter debt maturity.
From a share buyback front we reported another 6 million shares for a total cost of $150 million.
Looking out over the remainder of 2012 capital generation that is benefiting from favorable equity markets and the reduced level of life sales should allow us to exceed our original guidance for $400 million of capital management.
As you know I don't give specific at the guidance around share repurchases.
Our actions over the last 1.5 years are part of an intentioned strategy.
Simply put our current capital position is very strong and we will allocate that capital to the most productive uses while still protecting our valuable franchises.
Let me finish up my comments by noting that I find our current valuation to be at odds with the actions that we have taken and the results that are flowing from those actions including: Share repurchases of $750 million over the last 6 quarters; a 60% increase in shareholder dividends for 2012; multiple price increases in life products that were particularly impacted by low interest rates; risk reduction across our general accounts that has reduced below investment grade holdings by nearly 4%; book value per share that has continued to grow over the last year despite the decision that we made to write off $750 million of goodwill at the end of 2011; and last but definitely not least return on equity that has been steadily improving and came in at 11.2% in the current quarter.
We'll continue to do the things that we need to do to produce those sorts of results going forward.
And I firmly believe that will eventually be reflected in our valuation.
With that let me turn the call over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jeff Schuman with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the Retirement business.
One of your competitors is getting out and I think another at least one of your competitors has already kind of seized some of their distribution relationships and taken some share.
Are you able to kind of take advantage of that situation and gain some share in the near term? Jeff as I said in my remarks first of all we're more focused on the companies that remain in the business than we are the ones that go out.
And as I said I think the companies that remain in the business are high-quality companies with good management.
We're not expecting big increases in market share because of a couple of exits from the industry.
We're comfortable with the kind of growth that we're seeing.
We continue to price our products appropriately.
And again we don't expect to answer your question specifically any big increase in the -- I presume this was the Retirement business that you were talking about.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I'm talking about the Retirement business exactly.
I mean the Retirement businesses I'm sorry or the VA business? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> The Retirement Plans business.
Oh I'm sorry I was answering on the VA business.
We're pretty committed to our program there.
We're in the right segments.
We're expanding our distribution our technology.
We're achieving our pricing targets.
Some of the growth that we've seen this year has come as I've mentioned from the strength of our distribution.
Two particular cases one is the increased productivity of our wholesalers in the small group market that had more tenure and the other one is this 300-person strong work site marketing group that goes and visits specifically with our client firms' employees to try to increase their retirement contributions.
Again you saw that 15%.
So we're getting our returns.
We're making progress.
We think it's a good business.
And I hope that answers your question.
Our next question comes from Ed Spehar with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> The question I had -- Dennis in the past you've given us some sense of where your pricing is in the life business relative to competitors.
I'm wondering if you could update that given the some of your comments about price action you've seen in the market following yours? Yes Ed there's been some movement.
I would say that in the level-pay area roughly speaking we're 3% to 10% across-the-board on our product's off-the-top pricing.
Where it's only 3% we can compete pretty well on that.
In the single-pay area we're still kind of double-digit percentages off the lead players in these markets.
So we're going to continue to see and intentionally sell a decline in contribution of short-pay type payment -- excuse me short-pay premium type of products.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the one follow-up to that would be given the decline in life sales that we saw in the quarter how much of a benefit did you see in the quarter from -- to statutory earnings as a result of the decline in the first quarter sales? Randy and I have talked about this before.
I'm mean rough justice $1 less of a premium is $1 more of capital.
Research Division</strong> And that generally worked out in that fashion the first quarter? Yes Ed that did.
During the quarter as I mentioned we had stat earnings of $250 million.
That's above the sort of $200 million level that you have seen us experience in the past and that benefited from 2 items both the lower level of life sales and the favorable markets during the quarter.
But it was a strong quarter from a stat operating earnings standpoint.
Our next question comes from Chris Giovanni from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dennis you guys have obviously shown discipline and commitment to shrinking business where appropriate and I'm curious what the response has been from your distribution partners.
The company is run very tightly so that our distribution organization internally is obviously aligned on our strategy.
And as I've said the ability of our distribution organization to take that out to our partners and explain why we're doing it and the consequences both to them and to us of it is understood and accepted.
We're pretty delighted that the -- and this takes time to do.
Let's just take an individual life producer.
If he's been building a practice around single-pay or periodic-pay SGUL sales it's going to take some amount of time to have him understand say for example the benefit of an indexed UL sale.
But as I said that shift is occurring off a small base of 11% and our success this year will be to be able to continue to do that.
So in short we're taking the message to our distribution partners.
It's being well received and understood and it's up to us to implement it and execute on it.
It's interesting and just one fact we made some pretty significant changes in the wires on some of the compensation and the wires took our compensation structure and asked everyone else to meet it.
And so there's some leadership demonstrated there.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just on capital.
You've clearly also shown a commitment to accelerating share repurchases based on the share price.
But you also have made comments in the past about wanting to get bigger in the Group business as well as the Retirement business.
And there are some of those properties that are on the market so should be expect that M&amp;A is a possibility or do you believe share purchases just given where the share price is will continue to be the primary use of capital? We've been pretty clear that we're anxious to organically first and foremost build and increase our Group and Retirement businesses.
We spend 100% of our time trying to figure out how to build them organically.
At the same time with a clear path for organic growth from time to time a property might come along that's consistent with the type of business the type of distribution that you're trying to build.
And so there is some economic advantage to accelerating your organic growth plans with a property that's consistent with those organic growth plans.
Let me make 2 comments on that.
One it takes money to grow Group business and the Retirement Plan business.
We're talking about hundreds of millions of dollars of investments in those 2 areas over the next couple of years.
So if we have an investment that we can make that offsets that well that might make sense.
Second thing I would say more specifically to your question about share repurchase versus acquisitions if it's not a dollar-for-dollar equivalency -- when you do share repurchases you're taking capital out of the company which reduces book equity and has other consequences -- and again we're happy to do that we're going to continue to do that -- when you make an acquisition capital is staying in the company.
So you're not for example reducing your equity.
Therefore lowering your ability to meet your debt-to-equity ratios.
So I think that covers it.
Again you have to I hope -- let me just underscore 3 points.
You have to invest to grow the business.
If you do an acquisition that offsets some of that investment the dollars that you spend on that investment aren't gross their net.
And that share buybacks which we'll continue to do we've demonstrated that we're going to do them are not dollar-for-dollar with making a strategic investment.
Okay? Our next question comes from Randy Binner from FBR.
Research Division</strong> I have a question about AXXX.
I haven't seen this in the release or anywhere else.
Has there been any material AXXX transactions completed this year? Not by us Randy.
We have not done a transaction in the first quarter.
As you remember we did 3 last year.
That was more than we typically do in a year.
So when I've talked about this year -- what I've said is that I don't have one in my base plans.
But we're going to work very hard to see if we can execute on another one.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Well a couple of follow-ups there.
I guess my impression was that the plan was to at least have 1 or 2 that freed up around $200 million of capital.
So is that still the plan or could we expect to maybe not see one at all? Yes.
So in a typical year we sort of plan on maybe we can do a couple of hundred million dollars of capital generation.
Last year we did 3 transactions and generated an excess of $200 million.
And you saw that in the capital manage we did last year when we did a total of about $800 million of buybacks and de-levering.
So coming into this year we start that same sort of focus $400 million of capital management.
We'll try to go out and do additional reserved financing transactions and other things like the reduced life sales which are generating incremental capital that's going to allow us to add to that $400 million level.
Research Division</strong> Just one more if I could.
Is there something -- rates are still low the equity markets higher.
I mean is there is cap? Can you just give us quick color on kind of the capital markets dynamics and demand for these types of transactions? I think the supply is definitely out there.
In fact I would say that prices have continued to come down on the transaction proposals that we see floating around out there.
So there is a very robust market with our investment banking partners and bank partners primarily for these sorts of structures.
Good long dated structures at a very good price that's actually below what we've priced for in these transactions.
Our next question comes from Joanne Smith with Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just want to go back to your comments regarding the Disability business.
And you've had decent results whereas others have continued to struggle or are actually seeing some deterioration in their business.
I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit about that.
And then just generally speaking in the group business overall you had really good sales growth and  was wondering how you reconcile that with the fact that all your competitors are talking about very soft pricing conditions? Randy and I'll take aspects of that question.
So let me Randy go first.
Let me just come back to sales.
I said they were up strong off a soft quarter.
But having said that they were broad-based.
So sales by industry classifications remains stable.
We've seen solid growth across all case sizes.
Our proposal activity remains strong.
Back to pricing -- a little bit on pricing.
Last quarter we got into detailed comments.
Kind of hurt our sales efforts because it was a competitive situation.
So we're not going to speak to specific price of changes in the marketplace anymore.
But what I will tell you is that we are getting our ROEs from new business in 12%-plus range with the business that we're selling.
Randy you may want to expand on that.
Yes Joanne.
On your last point of your comment.
What I hear from competitors the few calls that I listen to and discussions I've had is that a lot of people see a market that is actually hardening.
That's what I've heard from a number of competitors.
So I haven't heard necessarily the softening comment that you made there at the end.
It's the other way actually.
So feel pretty good that the market is hardening consistent with the actions we've taken over the last couple of years in this business.
The Disability business is a good high-quality business.
There are a number of things you have to think about when you're pricing a disability case.
As I mentioned we've seen incidents come down to our historic levels and very happy about that.
But undoubtedly we have to continue to be cautious and continue to be very disciplined in a business like this which has some linkages to how the overall economy is performing.
Just one more comment on my side.
You really have a to parse out we talk frequency about the segments are more important than broad industry discussions.
And the most competitive and this is across a lot of product lines but it's always more competitive when you're dealing with bigger sophisticated companies.
You have more people paying attention to it they've got consultants.
They're spreadsheet-ing [ph].
As you go down market it's still competitive but not -- I don't think to the same level it is particularly in the jumbo group size the very large companies.
So as people talk Joanne and you listen to them it's really more segment specific.
Research Division</strong> I just have one follow-up on a completely different subject.
You've had some success with the indexed UL I believe and the variable UL.
Have you done anything there to kind of enhance the product? I understand that strong equity markets has been a factor behind the kind of revival in sales in the industry overall.
But have you done anything to tweak the product to make it a little bit more attractive? We're constantly tweaking products to make them more attractive and so there's a continuation of that but nothing dramatic on variable universal life.
But I will come back to my point that having a broad based strong smart distribution capability enables you to talk to customers and partners about different products and why they might work and it's that rightful focus on these pivot products and the distribution to be able to do that that is going to help.
Our next question comes from Andrew Kligerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess first Dennis you talked about the pivot strategy and of course now you're selling UL VUL indexed UL.
What return are you generating on that business and what's the return on the secondary guarantee legacy UL? The legacy secondary guarantee UL? You're breaking up a little bit on us Andrew.
But I think if I heard the question what's the different new business returns on the pivot portfolio and what are the current returns on SGUL.
The pivot portfolio is -- there are typical 12% to 14% type of new business returns in the products that we're selling we're getting that on.
The SGUL products continue to be below our targeted objectives.
We think this year in the aggregate on the business we expect to sell that we can do better -- and we hope to do better than 10%.
But that depends on us being able to make this pivot to the extent that we have it in our plans.
And so far so good we're gaining traction and moving in the right direction.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the second question would be just going back to the capital and I'm thinking to investor day and you kind of had given guidelines of GDP and well this is growth of 2% unemployment at 9% housing down 3% S&amp;P 11.75%.
You have a capital margin of 1.5% and then as you're alluding to on this quarter with free cash flow around $400 million you could deploy that any which way you want.
And now with Randy I think I'm hearing this right Randy you're saying that you could do a few securitizations that might do a couple of hundred million.
I want to get a sense of how excited you -- I mean Dennis you mentioned earlier that the valuation seems low.
I would absolutely agree.
I mean what's your appetite? I mean do want to go beyond $400 million this year? And are you seeing a lot of M&amp;A opportunities? Is there a big pipeline out there? Just let me get a feel some color around those things.
Yes.
As I said here Andrew as we sit here today I fully expect to go beyond $400 million for the year.
And once again I'm going to go back and link this to sort of how we did this last year.
We came into the year with the same $400 million guidance did some additional reserve financing transactions sold a couple of corporate assets ended up a total of $800 billion of capital management last year.
It's the same sort of approach this year.
We come in with that guidance around $400 million and as I said last quarter I love to under-promise and over-deliver on these things.
And we're going to do everything we can to over-deliver on capital management again.
The key levers that we've got the positive impact we are getting from reduced SGUL sales; as Dennis mentioned about $1 of capital generation for $1 of lower sales there's one; and then incremental reserve financing transactions that we can do.
It's a good robust market for reserved financing transactions.
We still have some capacity on our balance sheet so we're going to go -- the team is going to go do their level best to execute another one of those.
We believe we're undervalued Dennis mentioned it I mentioned it and we're not -- definitely not shy about buying back our own stock.
Research Division</strong> And just the deal pipeline.
Is there a lot out there on the other end of the spectrum? Well I think we're all aware of the companies that have exited the business and announced sales Andrew.
And as compared to 2010 and 2011 2 companies is more than there has been in those 2 periods other than what true and Met [ph] others did overseas.
My guess is that over the next 24 months of that there will be companies refocusing on core businesses and maybe a little bit more M&amp;A activity.
But we're not building our growth plans which -- and we think we can develop even in this interest rate environment as we said very attractive organic growth through the combination of our franchise strength and capital management.
So if something comes along that makes sense great but we're delivering results to our shareholders just based on our organic strategies as we typically do.
Our next question comes from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
In Retirement Plans can you update us on where Lincoln stands with respect to the new disclosure requirements? And I guess around that are you seeing any impact in terms of sales opportunities where either being in compliance or not those new requirements is having an impact on your competitiveness? Yes.
Let me start by saying that we've already put into place all of the sponsor disclosure that is being required.
And so that's done and in the market.
I guess it's an important question but I come back to what we believe is that ultimately it's our value proposition and delivery model that's critical to the success of this business and is going to drive the results.
We're a mid-priced provider with a unique high-touch service model.
We feel good about how we're positioned.
Is there some temporary dislocation in the industry because of this disclosure? Who knows.
But all of us in the industry aren't worried about that as much as we are delivering good value to the consumers.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate those comments.
It was my understanding that there's maybe a couple of sizable competitors who aren't quite there yet in meeting those new requirements and that may be providing an opportunity at the margin for some of those who've gotten there quicker.
Your guess is as good as mine on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just secondly just a quick update.
Randy good commentary and good outlook on the spread expectations as we move forward.
Can you just update us on where you stand I guess at the end of the first quarter on crediting rates in your various businesses versus the minimums? Yes.
We'll go business by business.
Not an issue for the Group business.
Or in the Annuity business we're in very good shape.
As I mentioned.
I really don't see any pressure on economic spreads in the Annuity business.
Significant amount of mobility to continue to manage the creditor rate in response to any declines in the earned rate.
On the Life and the Retirement side we're down to low to mid-single digits 3 or 5 basis points of room.
Even though on the Retirement side we continue to generate additional capacity as we sell these new products at lower guaranteed rates.
So Life side we're down to a few basis points.
I don't see much additional rate cutting coming from the Life business.
We made a pretty significant rate cut in the first quarter and that will sustain us obviously for a period of time here.
I don't see any large cuts coming out of the Life side as we move forward.
So that's why I guide sort of that 10 to 15 basis points of compression which is similar to what I've guided to on the Retirement business.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick follow-up on the Retirement side.
I heard your comment that the new business has minimums in the 1% to 1.5% range.
Where's the crediting rate that you're going out to the market with relative to those minimums recently I guess? We're checking our facts on that right now.
It's kind of a case-by-case situation.
But low single-digit for sure.
Could I amplify on this appropriate focus that everyone has on interest margin compression? And obviously for a company like Lincoln and many other companies in the industry lower rates affect earnings growth.
But let me just add to that.
This management team doesn't feel like they're a victim of low interest rates.
We don't have any additional levers to sort of mitigate the impact of that.
So on top of everything else you heard us talk about this morning we are doing a couple of other things and let me identify them.
The first one is that after 3 years of investing in mostly investment grade bonds and mortgages we have some leeway to take incremental investment risk to boost yield.
It's not something that we are going to do in large amounts and it would develop over the same time frame that we are seeing compression from lower bond rates.
So that will help mitigate this issue.
And we also have initiatives underway to lower our core expenses.
I think over time these 2 things alone on top of everything else that we're talking about will help dent some of the impact on low interest rates.
So I just want to signal to -- not signal but explain to all of you that we keep providing these $50-million-a-year numbers which are accurate with respect to if interest rates stay at these levels.
That's the right number Randy? Yes that's the right number.
That's the right number.
But we're taking other actions on top of all the investment to try to put a dent in that over the next 2 to 3 years.
Yes when we go out with that guidance $50 million a year and growing by about $50 million a year after that and we talked about that over a 3-year period.
That is the worst-case scenario.
It does not assume sort of management actions that we have taken and will continue to make as we move forward.
Our next question comes from Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> First could you just give an update on the assets and liabilities held at the VA captive? Yes we ended the quarter with assets in excess of liabilities -- in excess of $400 million.
And once again just to remind everyone those are real assets generated by our hedge program.
Now the liability itself came down pretty significantly during the quarter obviously with the strong equity markets we saw the liability come down into the end of the quarter just over $1 billion.
So over $400 million of assets in excess of our liabilities with a liability that's a little over $1 billion right now.
LLC</strong> Alright great.
And then commission rates I believe were reduced in March on the MoneyGuard product.
I was wondering if we should expect a material impact on MoneyGuard sales going forward from that.
We don't.
Okay so you think 1Q MoneyGuard sales are a pretty good run rate? We don't give predictions but we continue to expect good growth in the MoneyGuard business.
Our next question comes from Mark Finkelstein with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> You pre-funded some debt maturing later in the year.
I guess the question is are we done de-leveraging? No.
I wouldn't say we're done Mark.
I mean I think there is benefit to taking leverage out of the balance sheet also for companies such as ourself.
We feel very good about the leverage position we're at right now.
But doing some amount of de-levering with our capital management I think is -- there's a lot of benefit to that.
So what I said in the past and what I continue to say is we're definitely skewed toward buybacks at the moment.
But some element of de-levering in our capital management I wouldn't be surprised by.
And we have other levers to do a little bit of de-levering here and there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But that actually would be beyond 2012 I assume.
Well I'm not going to preclude anything in 2012 either.
There still could be some element of that.
If not some major component of capital management.
But could we do some something on the edge? We have flexibility to do that sort of thing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just coming back to the Life business and UL sales.
I know you don't want to give predictions.
But I guess the question is is there anything that you're seeing in terms of the other competitor behavior or pricing change that would give you an indication that the current run rate of sales somewhere in the $45 million to $50 million range is or isn't a reasonable trendable number for the rest of the year? Again we don't give predictions.
And I apologize for repeating this again to everyone.
But end of the year results are going to depend on 2 things total sales for the year.
One is what else do competitors do and we can't do anything about that.
But more importantly what we can do is continue to execute on this pivot strategy and we think we can get it done.
And so I would say the first quarter that would not be our expected run rate for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally on the VA business.
You talked again about kind of this subaccount option in Volatility Management.
I guess what I'm curious about is as more money goes into this accounts does it change? Does it improve the actual return objectives of it or does it really more just manage kind of the outcomes within a narrower band? Are you speaking from the consumer's perspective? Research Division</strong> I'm talking about from Lincoln's perspective.
Let's start with the consumer.
What this does to the consumer is creates a narrow volatility.
So let's just use a number.
If you were targeting a 7% return you might have swings of 30% 40% around 7% and the protected funds are trying to shrink that spread from 30% to 8% 10% 12%.
And so that's just a volatility issue.
Then there's the cost of putting that on [indiscernible] pieces of program.
So the expected returns have to go down the by the amount of cost that we're charging to do that.
Which is not that significant maybe 50 to 100 basis points.
So that's what's happening from the consumer side.
From the Lincoln side we have a mirror image of that.
The pricing of a lot of our derivatives is dependent on the fluctuation of returns on the underlying subaccounts to the extent you've dampened that you've lower the cost of your hedge execution.
Does that help? Our next question comes from Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Just have a question about the larger VA market.
You said you're comfortable with the dynamics now.
But with the sort of -- one of the 800-pound gorillas dialing back are you getting more I guess pressure from your distribution outlets to give them more product or do you see this market shrinking as a whole going forward? Let me separate sort of the practicalities of distribution and who's playing the market from the long-term trends associated with the business.
I'll start with the latter first.
There is no question that consumers are more interested in guarantees than they have been in the past.
There's no question about this big demographic move with more people going into retirement.
So those 2 things are going to build this market over time for everybody.
In the short run the dynamics with distributors are that if people leave the business a company leaves the business there's some adjustment time to that it's not an automatic that that business that they were doing in the short run is going to be absorbed by other companies.
It is just who's been selling what what programs are in place and had to be changed at the distribution partner level.
And so there could be some industry-wide -- depending on the channel I mean in the wires [ph] for example you can see some decline just because of the movement of providers.
But that's short-term.
And longer-term this is a good business with good reason from a demographic and the expectation of consumers about what they want in their retirement.
I would now like to turn the conference back over for closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
And thanks to all of you for joining us today.
For those of you who we didn't get to this morning we will certainly follow-up with you after the call later today.
And as always we will take your questions on our Investor Relations line at 1 (800) 237-2920 or via e-mail.
So again thank you and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thanks for your for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining Lincoln Financial Group's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Jim Sjoreen.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good afternoon and welcome to Lincoln Financial's second quarter Earnings call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about liquidity and capital resources premiums deposits expenses and income from operations are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln's website www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to their most comparable GAAP measures.
Also presenting on today's call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis.
Thank you Jim and good afternoon everyone.
Overall it was another excellent quarter for us with all of our businesses delivering solid results.
Our strong performance underscored the strength of our franchise flexibility of our balance sheet and the aggressive actions we continue to take in response to difficult macroeconomic trends.
We expect that the tough macro conditions will continue as will the deliberate steps we are taking to keep us on track for delivering on our long-term goals and objectives.
Let me now share some highlights from the quarter.
We ended the second quarter with operating return on equity at 12% book value per share growth of 5% income from operations per share of 8% and operating revenue growth of 2% all clear indicators that we are delivering on the strategies we have discussed with you in the past.
Increased deposits and positive net flows in Retirement Plan Services as well as strong top line results in Group Protection demonstrate that our investments in talent technology and distribution are yielding results.
In addition although Life sales were mixed we did experience strong results in the higher return products we had pivoted to the past several quarters.
And finally our strong capital position enabled us to repurchase another S150 million in shares.
With our current valuation inconsistent with the actions we have taken and the results we have achieved buying our shares is one of our best capital management uses.
Let me now comment on underlying businesses.
Life Insurance sales for the quarter were $128 million down from a year ago.
This decline was expected as we've continued to be a leader in implementing pricing actions that respond to the low-interest rate environment.
We are committed to taking additional action if conditions require us to do so.
In addition to making pricing adjustments we've also continued our pivot to higher-return less-interest-rate-sensitive products.
Second quarter sales of these products which include Variable Universal Life Indexed Universal Life and Term were up 20% from the prior year quarter.
Moving forward our ability to keep pivoting to these products will be driven by the breadth depth and capability of our distribution teams.
Turning to the annuity business.
We are also responding to low interest rates and market volatility by implementing product changes on our variable annuity platform by expanding our Protected Funds solutions and by adding new distribution partners and strengthening relations within existing networks.
You have heard me say this before but we are pleased with where we are positioned in the industry.
We maintain a consistent market presence and we remain more interested in offering products on our terms and we are focused on taking market share.
Positive net flows from the second quarter helped drive annuity account balances of $90 billion up 2% from a year ago.
We continue to see strong results from our Protected Funds series as evidenced by 65% of June variable annuity purchasers opting for this solution.
Our Protected Funds remain a good solution for consumers because they can lower the volatility of their returns and a good offering for Lincoln because they reduce our hedging costs.
Our strategic partnership with Primerica also continues to be a source of growth and diversification.
Indexed annuity sales in the second quarter via this network were $100 million up from $25 million in the first quarter.
In our Retirement Plan Services business we delivered solid results in the quarter with the benefits of our strategic investments taking deeper hold.
Total deposits of 1.3 billion in the second quarter were up nearly 8% versus the prior year.
We were also encouraged by our small market segment results which saw an 18% increase in total deposits.
This segment is an area of focus for us given its great growth dynamics and favorable return profile.
Net inflows in the quarter were $194 million compared to outflows of $178 million a year ago.
This marked the fourth straight quarter of positive flows driven by a combination of strong deposit growth and improved retention.
In Group Protection second quarter sales were $89 million representing a 33% increase from the year-ago quarter.
Our sales continued to be broad-based with employers of fewer than 1 000 employees remaining a source of strength for us.
Second quarter sales were also driven by the strategic actions we are taking in this business including a 15% increase in Lincoln's feet on the street.
This increase in sales reps contributed to a 20% increase in independent brokers selling the segment's products.
Our deep distribution combined with the product and service expertise we bring to market continue to position us well to near and long-term opportunities in the Group space.
Staying on topic for a minute distribution overall has long been a strength for Lincoln one that we believe differentiates us from competitors.
It remains core to driving our continued pivot to the higher-return products that yielded good results this quarter as well as enables us to continue to sell products on our terms.
Our more than 8 000 agents and reps in retail 500 worksite producers and almost 600 wholesalers in LFD have brought to Lincoln approximately 60 000 independent producers selling our products.
We will continue to tap this deep resource to deliver good solutions to our clients.
Before I turn the call over to Randy let me state once again that this was an excellent quarter.
Our results were strong and we remain focused on all levers that will incrementally help us to build earnings growth and return.
As I mentioned we have flexibility on our balance sheet to continue share repurchases and we will continue to reshape our products as a means to generate strong new business returns.
The credit profile in our investment portfolio is very strong allowing us to take modest additional risk that will improve our investment yield.
And while we will continue to make significant strategic investments across our business lines we will also continue to take action to lower our baseline operating expenses.
The results we have produced over the last several quarters are strong.
They reflect an unwavering commitment to our shareholders that we will take action that helps to ensure sustained growth and continued profitability.
With that let me turn it over to Randy.
Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of $322 million or $1.09 per share for the second quarter.
It was an excellent quarter that again demonstrated our ability to generate strong and improving results in the face of a challenging environment.
Strong results across all 4 businesses were boosted by our alternative investment portfolio which added 20 million to the quarter's results.
Adjusting for this normalized earnings came in at $1.03 per share.
Looking at key value drivers.
Normalized operating return on equity of 11.3% and book value per share growth of 5.3% continued to perform very nicely.
Operating revenue growth of 1.5% was muted as the daily average S&amp;P grew only 2.4% year-over-year while net investment income growth was negatively impacted by the interest rate environment.
Normalized operating EPS growth of 12% was helped by crediting rate actions in the Life Annuity and Retirement businesses which largely offset the decline in our earn rates; tight management of baseline expenses that is expenses excluding strategic investments which grew 3% year-over-year; and capital management as we repurchased 6.5 million shares during the quarter for a total investment of $150 million.
All in all a very very good quarter.
Turning to net income.
We reported income of $324 million or $1.10 per share.
Net income benefited from a small net realized gain resulting from a positive NPR adjustment which was offset by RMBS and CMBS related impairments mark-to-market adjustments on trading securities and VA hedge performance.
After tax impairment and other net realized losses of $33 million were consistent with the levels we have seen in preceding quarters.
The VA hedge program continued to perform very well particularly in a volatile quarter with assets associated with the hedge program exceeding the liability by $450 million at the end of the quarter.
In my opinion no single statistic better exemplifies that our program is uniformly recognized as a leader in the industry and its ability to continually develop and grow the assets required to fund the liability for the guaranteed benefits that we issued.
Before turning to segment results let me comment on a couple of items starting with the impact of today's interest rate environment.
Previous guidance which assumed a 10-year treasury rate of 2% was for an earnings impact of $50 million $100 million and $150 million in 2012 2013 and 2014 respectively.
Our revised guidance which is based upon today's treasury rate environment and which includes actions that we have taken on credit rates our new business pricing and which incorporates our actual experience for the first half of 2012 is for a smaller impact over the same period of approximately $10 million for the remainder of 2012 $75 million in 2013 and $140 million in 2014 representing a 25% reduction from the $300 million 3-year total of the previous guidance.
I'd attribute most of the improvement in the projections to the actions that we've taken around credited rates and good performance in the investment portfolio.
Looking forward while in the Life and Retirement business we are essentially out of room to cut crediting rates further I do anticipate that there is room for further management actions to mitigate the bottom line impact primarily through expense management in the investment portfolio where we have capacity to take on more risk after an extended period of risk reduction.
My previous guidance are no near to midterm impact on statutory capital remains unchanged by today's rate environment.
As a reminder we have estimated and continued to estimate an impact of up to $500 million in the second half of a 10-year period of low rates.
Looking at expenses.
G&amp;A grew $28 million or 7.7% from the second quarter of 2012 with approximately 60% of the growth attributable to strategic investments that we are making across the company with a focus on the Group Protection and Retirement businesses.
Of course the positive impact of those investments can be seen in the results with strong sales growth in both businesses driven by investments in distribution and technology.
Moving forward we will continue to manage baseline expenses very tightly while growth at strategic spending will level off as we exit 2012.
Turning to segment results and starting with Annuities.
Reported earnings for the quarter were $158 million or $146 million normalized due to better-than-expected alternative investment income and a favorable stack adjustment.
Returns in the Annuity business were very strong with an ROE of 20.4% and an ROA of 70 basis points.
Interest spreads remain strong in the Annuity business.
Looking forward the Annuity business continues to have ample room for further crediting rate cuts.
As a result I expect little pressure on economic interest spreads with any decline due primarily to new business that we'll put on with lower required interest margins.
I made this point last quarter and I'll make it again: when operated in a responsible and disciplined way which is our approach the Annuity business is a high-return business the value of which is not fully reflected in our share price.
Retirement Plan Services produced another solid quarter with earnings of $38 million or $34 million normalized and strong returns with an ROE in excess of 15% and an ROA of 37 basis points.
Interest spreads decreased in the quarter by approximately 7 basis points relative to the first quarter as new investments brought down the earned rate.
Looking forward I'd expect to see spread compression of 20 to 25 basis points a year.
We of course will not be standing still and I fully expect that the strategic investments that we are making in the retirement business will fuel the growth needed to overcome the headwind of spread compression.
Turning to Life Insurance.
We reported earnings of $138 million or $132 million after normalizing for strong alternative investment results.
As I noted in my remarks on the first quarter call Life earnings growth this year is affected by the multiple reserve financing transactions that we did last year.
Adjusting out the reserve financing impact the current quarter's earnings grew by 5% relative to the second quarter of 2011.
Interest spreads were relatively flat for the first quarter as incremental relief on credited rates offset a small decline in yield.
Looking forward I'd expect to see 10 to 15 basis points of spread compression per year in today's rate environment.
The Group Protection had a very good quarter reporting income from operations of $27 million or $24 million normalized.
Net earned premium benefited from several quarters of strong sales and was up 8%.
Non-medical loss ratio of 72.7% returned to the midpoint of our expected range with all product lines experiencing a good quarter.
LTD incidents and severity continued to perform within our expectations and life mortality returned to a more normal level when compared to the first quarter.
Our discount rate for new LTD claims remained at 4.25% during the quarter.
I'd note that we lowered our rate to 4.25% back in the second quarter of 2011.
This early movement on the discount rate should allow us to maintain this rate for the remainder of 2012.
Today's rate environment would likely lead us to lower our discount rate 25 to 50 basis points in 2013 and we are taking this into consideration on the pricing of new and renewal business.
Turning to the balance sheet and capital management.
Life company capital remained level during the quarter at 7.6 billion and RBC came in at approximately 500%.
Cash at the holding company was just north of $800 million including $300 million of debt proceeds that we will use in August to fund the debt maturity.
We repurchased 6.5 million shares for a total cost of $150 million bringing the year-to-date total to $300 million.
As I noted during the first quarter call I expect to exceed initial guidance for the year for $400 million of capital deployment.
Given our belief that our share price remains significantly undervalued we have a bias to skew capital deployment toward share buybacks.
But we'd note that we will also can continue to take leverage over the organization when the opportunity arises.
Let me wrap up what was a great quarter by noting that last week Moody's affirmed our ratings and positive outlook another indicator of both our positive past performance and the strength of our franchise as we move forward.
With that let me turn the call over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Randy Binner from FBR.
Research Division</strong> So touching on the updated rate exposure so the numbers you gave relate to I think GAAP earnings or kind of earnings overall.
Is there any update to the disclosures you had given before about how DAC may be affected by a lower rate environment? Note that DAC which I think you're probably referring to the long-term earned rate assumption.
Research Division</strong> That is exactly what I'm referring to yes the 4.25 versus the 6.25.
Right.
Randy that will be part of our third quarter unlocking process.
I'm not going to front run that process.
There's teams of people across the company working on that right now.
Obviously rates have come down and so we'll take all of that information into account when we think about that long-term assumption.
I would note though having been through more unlocking processes than I care to admit in my life there are always pieces of the unlocking that go both ways.
We will have positive impacts and we will have negative impact.
I don't know what the different -- the individual pieces are.
We will do a thorough job of reviewing all of them and report the results through the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on one other piece of disclosure.
I think this goes back to the investor event in November.
There's kind of a base case and a low rate case scenario for cash flow adequacy the $6 billion and $8 billion redundancy disclosure that you gave.
Would that be affected by this new disclosure as well? Right.
I didn't go to that piece of the disclosure.
What I did say is that my previous guidance for no near to midterm impact on statutory capital is unchanged.
When you go out into that second half of a 10-year period on a piece of our business the SGUL business we projected there could be up to a $500 million impact.
That guidance is completely unchanged from where we were before by the level of interest rates today.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So okay.
So we should improve from that? Then the 6 to 8 would be kind of roughly intact still? I think you can make that inference.
Our next question comes from Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question on your plans for excess capital beyond the buybacks.
I think in the past Dennis you'd talked about potentially looking at deals.
You've highlighted the Group Benefits space and also the pension market.
If you're still doing that and what do you see as activity in the market? And then secondly you reported very strong growth in your Group Benefits business in terms of sales.
What's certainly driving that? And what are you seeing terms of pricing in the Groups Benefits market? Jimmy on the M&amp;A front we continue to be interested in deploying some of our capital towards strategic opportunities particularly related -- particularly in the Group and Retirement businesses.
And that's unchanged.
We'd probably today with where our share price is not make such a large investment that it would stop us from buying our shares buyback -- shares back so we continue to look at this on a holistic basis and take into consideration everything that you should when looking at building the company strategically and appropriately managing to your best return opportunities.
With respect to the Group Protection business let me start by saying unlike some of our competitors we have a sweet spot in the small employer market.
It's not without competition but it's not as competitive our belief the jumbo market is so a little bit less price pressure there.
As I said in my remarks strong sales relates primarily back to an increase in sale representatives some 15% or 17% and an increase in shelf space if you will because we have 20% more brokers who've never used us before selling the product.
But let me give you one more statistic because there's a lot of discussion in the industry around pricing.
I think we have continued to move prices up modestly where we can both on new business and renewals.
And the metric that I pay very close attention to one of many in terms of trying to judge how competitive we are is our close rate because we close we bid on large numbers of cases through the course of the year.
And that close ratio the number of cases that we actually win stays -- had stayed pretty consistently in the 10% area.
So I hope those are responsive to your 2 questions.
Our next question comes from Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm a little tired from the earnings late last night and the calls today.
Can you just go over again Randy the changes in the underlying assumptions around the interest rate guidance that goes from 300 to I think 225 you said I think the primary driver was that you've made some investments at a better return than you originally projected or something along those lines.
Can you just kind of go over that again just so it's clear because I think that's a pretty important point? Sure Suneet.
I mean the primary change going forward is today's interest rate environment right? So the last guidance was with a 10-year treasury of 2%.
Today's guidance looking forward is for today's interest rate environment where the 10-year treasury is bouncing between 140 and 150.
In terms of what's impacted the results what's made them better than before is the actions that we've taken as you look back primarily better action on crediting rates than we originally projected better results in the investment portfolio than we originally thought we'd get and the actions we've taken on new business pricing.
Now in the near term it's the first 2 items that are the primary contributors there but when you look forward that changes from 10-year treasury of 2% to today's interest rate environment.
Research Division</strong> I guess why is that crediting rate better than you expected? Because I mean I was always under the assumption that you have the flexibility to go to the floors.
And so why would that be better than you expected? If this gets in -- I'm going to take this question Suneet.
When we provided these projections the questions that we were getting was not what are you going to do to change the life path? The questions were what if you essentially did nothing what would happen to your margins? And so when we provided the projections we knew that we were going to be able to take some actions to mitigate that.
I'm quite sure we said it.
And so that's the reason -- that's an answer to your question.
Let me go on to say that the second set of projections that we just provided are on that same basis which is essentially everything else being equal and the only variable that changed would be the 50 basis points or so roughly decline in yields that would be the consequence.
But as Randy and I have both said management is not going to accept that.
We're going to take actions on core expenses.
We're taking actions to improve our investment yield.
We're again repricing new business.
So I fully expect that like the 300 came down now the 225 will come down.
Now clearly because much of the drift from 300 to 225 was related to crediting rates you can see that quite clearly or some increase in investment yield.
We're having a look elsewhere now that we've got floors on these crediting rates.
But we're still adding a little bit of risk on the investment portfolio which we'll pass through that incremental gain we'll pass through to our shareholders not to the products.
Our core expense line pretty good at managing expenses but the environment is such that you have to get better.
So the mitigation to the $225 million will occur elsewhere in the balance sheet and I believe a lower overall net income number than you'll see it in the actual interest margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I appreciate that.
And then I guess my second question for Randy you sort of teased us again like you did last quarter in terms of the amount of capital that you'd be willing to return in excess of the 400.
Can you help us out a little bit of order of magnitude? I mean all of the data points you're pointing to in terms of RBC in terms of hedge programs in terms of balance sheet just continue so suggest that a lot of these risks are certainly manageable.
So any incremental info or color on what the buybacks could be this year would obviously be helpful too.
Let me -- I'll answer your question but let me broaden it out a little bit too.
Let's look back first.
We've done a significant amount of share repurchases over the last several quarters $900 million.
That represents roughly 12% of the shares we had outstanding at the beginning of that period.
Now what drove that $900 million was both the strong capital position that we had and the free cash flow that we generate on an ongoing basis.
Now when you look forward and when I project forward at those level of share buybacks at the dividend pays that we have over the life of the company I fully expect that my RBC trajectory would be down 15 to 20 points a year.
What you've seen over the last few quarters especially is that we've had sort of discrete events that have benefited the required capital.
For instance last quarter we had an upgrade on a big holding pretty much took required capital and made a change in that neutral for the quarter.
So we've had these discrete events.
As we've talked about when you look forward and we think about adding a little more risk to the portfolio I don't necessarily think that.
So when I look forward when we're using capital in the way we're using it I fully expect to see sort of our RBC trend to go down as you move forward.
And I think that's the appropriate way to manage the strong capital position that we have today.
When you think about all of the constituencies the environment that exists today constituencies being shareholders constituencies being rating agencies et cetera I think that's the appropriate way to manage the capital today.
We're being as aggressive as we can.
I fully expect to be in the market over the remainder of the year.
I'm not going to give you a specific guidance on what that number will be but we will be deploying capital.
Given where our share price is today we'll skew that deployment towards share buybacks.
We're not coming out of the market.
We're going to go above our original guidance for the year $400 million as a reminder by $300 million through the first 2 quarters.
But we're not going to look -- we're going to be out there in the market being aggressive recognizing our share prices today.
Our next question comes from Ed Spehar from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First Randy a follow-up on your comment about the progression of RBC.
Where in your plan where would you have thought the RBC ratio would be today given the buyback that you've completed versus where it actually has turned out? When I -- when we look out and when we project sort of the behaviors we've had we'd expect to see 15 to 20 points of RBC decline a year.
That's the average.
I mean it jumps up and down but over a 3-year planning period.
And that gives you roughly 50 points of decline.
We started this period with roughly 500 points of RBC so I'd expected us to be in that 480 475 range right now.
And we're at 500.
And the reason we haven't gone down is because of some of these events primarily continually improvement in the risk profile of the general account.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one follow-up.
Just to clarify on the room that you have on crediting rates.
Did you -- did I hear you correctly that you still -- you say you still have good flexibility on the individual Annuity block? That it was the Retirement and Life that you're pretty much at minimums? Yes absolutely that's exactly right.
The Annuity business we have ample room to respond to the declining earned rates so we don't see any pressure on the economics per interest spread in that business.
Absolutely on the Retirement and the Life space were pretty much out of room to recover rates further.
As Dennis mentioned we do have other areas of the company.
We'll look at to manage the bottom line impact of spread compression.
The investment portfolio expense management we're not done managing that potential impact.
Our next question comes from Chris Giovanni from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> The comments around the expense leverage and then the ability to take on more risk within the investment portfolio can you kind of talk some about what those potential expense initiatives could be and then what specific asset classes you guys are seeing an opportunity to take on more risk? Yes Chris.
Let me give you some specific examples things that are in various stages of being in place some of which are still under way.
Let's go to the asset portfolio first.
We have a very small allocation in the alternative space roughly 1% of our general account.
I think we can very easily take that up a bit and be well within the risk appetite.
So we recently issued a $450 million mandate to a high-quality manager to go out and invest in alternatives private equity hedge funds et cetera.
Also in the asset side we have a very favorable liquidity profile.
We have the capacity to take on investments that are a little less liquid.
So we recently issued a mandate for $500 million a year to private placements private placements that we don't really have access to as our current private platform.
Once again we're looking at our capacity and we're going out in finding the best manager out there to fill that need.
That's just a couple examples on the asset side.
On the expense side I'm not going to get any more specific than Dennis has said.
We're very good at managing expenses and you can fully expect that we'll be looking at all areas of general expenses as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then within the investment portfolio by changing some of that asset mix what type of capital absorption does that take you up in terms of the RBC? I think it's embedded in those numbers that I gave you before.
I don't feel that will have any different glide path than I talked to you about sort of that 15 to 20 points a year of decline in RBC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then back in the November investor you guys gave an update sort of under a moderate and severe stress scenario.
And the biggest delta was the investment portfolio.
And I guess given your comments today around the investment portfolio continuing to be better than expected what type of incremental capital are you guys picking up just based on the better performance within the investment portfolio? Yes.
I don't have the specific numbers on me today Chris.
And we haven't gone through the process in a couple of quarters sort of that complete stress.
But we'll do that again.
I feel very good that when we go through that process the results will be better or worse the same as they were before.
I feel very good about the things that have happened besides the general account and the position that's put us in today.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly just quickly on -- can you give us an update on where you guys stand within the DAC quarter? Yes sure Chris.
We're well above the mean a couple hundred million dollars if we unlock down to the mean.
I believe if you look at the actual projection going forward I think first year has roughly a 9% drop in sort of that the way we project out.
So we have a lot of cushion.
It represents roughly a couple of hundred million dollars if we were to unlock back to that mean.
Our next question comes from John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the rates on the incremental or on the new sensitivity on the rates Randy.
Maybe this is tough to provide but I was wondering whether you could help us understand just how much these management actions have impacted the outlook? I think in past conversations with you it sounds like incremental move downward in rates is a linear sort of earnings drag.
So under that assumption with none of the management actions I would've assumed that that $300 million of pressure at 2% would've gone up.
I'm not sure exactly by how much but it would've gone up.
So I'm trying to get a better sense of trying to measure exactly how much the management actions brought that down.
It seems to me that the net impact of the management actions could be easily $200 million.
Well John mathematically over the 3-year period right those management actions represented $75 million.
Now...
Research Division</strong> I just mean versus where you would've been if we assumed the 140 -- the 1.4% 1.5% 10-year.
Right.
The -- John let me go about your question on this way.
The things we've done in the past have improved the results over that 3-year period by $75 million.
Obviously that's a number that continues projecting out into the future so that has a present value much bigger than that.
Going forward we have over that 3-year period a total impact of $225 million.
Not ready to talk to you specifically about what we believe we can offset against that but the items we talked about we believe we can really chew into that number in a serious way.
Now when you look forward the impact continues to remain linear in nature at least over this next 3-year period and even beyond that.
The impacts remain spread compression and reduction in your earned rate on surplus.
Those are very linear impacts when you look forward.
So I wouldn't expect the impact to have big jumps or dips in it as you move forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just turning specifically to Group Protection.
I just hope that you could remind us how to think about a 25 or 50-basis-point discount rate cut.
What kind of sense -- all by itself what kind of an impact that might have on earnings? And then what does that translate into all else equal in terms of your pricing? You were talking about that as potentially a 2013 event.
But if you've got a lot of new and renewal business coming up between now and let's say the beginning of the year if you put in to price -- I'm just trying to get a sense of how much have to raise prices to essentially offset most of that discount rate cut.
Yes.
we'll let's talk about the numbers.
So a 25--basis-point reduction in discount rates translates into $2 million to $3 million of annual income okay? It also translates into roughly 2% to 3% on premium somewhere in that range.
It's very hard to estimate.
It's going to vary case to case to case.
But let's call it that range.
We are taking that sort of impact into account when we price cases today.
Our next question comes from Steven Schwartz from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Randy I want to start and I want to go again to the guidance of $50 million $100 million and $150 million the $10 million $75 million $140 million and maybe you can help me with some math here.
Prior -- so last year you were looking at a $50 million linear increase.
Now we're looking at a $65 million linear increase.
Why does that go up? What's the math? Well because you have a little more incremental year-by-year spread compression right? I mean rates are a little lower so if we got spread compression of X before there's annual spread compression of X plus something today which translates into a $65 million annual growth in that number versus the $50 million we had before.
So it's nothing more than that.
Also the impact of surplus is a little bigger but a little lower earned rate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So basically you're saying look the changes that we made took us 50 down to 10 and then we go on with our lives.
Is that probably the best way to look at it? Well we go along with our lives and we are very active on managing other pieces of the income statement to mitigate as much of this impact as possible.
Yes that's right.
If you lower your crediting rate on your liabilities let's just use an example not a specific example but if we lowered our crediting rates on all of our liabilities by $50 million this year that would repeat next year and the year after that and year after year after that.
Is that the question? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I think Randy got to it Dennis.
Can we look at -- you made a statement about it sounded to me like you're saying if rates continue where they are we could be looking at more price increases on the Life Insurance side from around year end.
If that's an accurate interpretation of what you were saying any sense of what you could be looking at? I think the best thing to say is that we have as you all know and we've said several times we have kept up with what's been a pretty quick decline in interest rates over the last 18 months and we've made pricing changes which will balance our need to get very good ROEs on new business and for taking the franchise.
So in the broadest sense we continue to make it in all of our portfolios if pricing changes reflecting conditions in the marketplace.
Back specifically to the Life Insurance business for a minute I would again repeat what we've been saying is that we're moving away from SGUL into products that already have the turns that are at our targets.
SGUL is already down to only 30% of our sales and SGUL is the product that's most sensitive to interest rates.
So there'd be a combination of pricing changes as needed along with this continued pivot to products that are less affected by the movement in interest rates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And one more Dennis.
Could you give us an update where the industry is where NEIC is right now on PBR? PBR and AG 38 are I think at the moment kind of in the same bucket.
AG 38 and PBR are going to -- the process is coming to a close.
And by the way I would say that in my experience the regulators in the industry have been working as well together on this as they could have.
And no one's ceding by the way their own responsibilities at all just the dialogue.
So on AG 38 specifically and large parts of principle-based reserving the process is nearing its end.
There's still moving parts but we should have some specific knowledge in the next couple of weeks or so.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're saying this summer at the summer meeting maybe actually the summer meeting? Yes.
Our next question comes from Tom Gallagher from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A quick question for Randy.
So you roll forward a little bit further in time.
Rates are lower but actually the outlook gets slightly better due to interest rates and related pressure.
Is that -- should we take that to mean that as we look to 3Q or 4Q considering balance sheet type reviews in terms of goodwill reserves DAC VOBA what -- anything else you might think to add in there that you would also in -- I don't know if I would say better shape but will that give you some cushion as you roll into sort of the testing season to think about how things might pan out? I talked about the unlocking process a little bit ago right.
I'm not going to get in front of that.
We are definitely going to look at both the long-term interest rate assumptions along with all the other assumptions that go with this process.
I fully expect that there will be pluses and minuses.
I don't know what the answer is at this point in time but my experience tells me that there will pluses.
There will be assumptions where we've been better than pricing.
There will be assumptions where we've done worse than the pricing.
And we'll see what the subtotal of it is.
As it relates to the goodwill analysis I'll just to remind everybody.
I started out with the same comment.
I'm not going to front run our process that occurs in the last half of the year.
But I'll remind everybody we took a good hard run at the key components of this last year the profitability of new business the amount of new business and the discount rate we applied for the goodwill analysis.
Now we'll go through that same analysis this year but I feel good about what we did last year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I guess another way to ask it would be if things are panning out better than your stress test are things also panning out better than your embedded accounting assumptions? When I think -- because obviously the accounting assumptions are best estimates and stress test are something worse than that.
But I guess I just want to try and get a sense for -- are the 2 related or should I think of them as completely unrelated? Because one was take -- starting from a much more conservative place.
Yes Tom I'm going to go back my early assumptions.
You're talking about GAAP accounting? Research Division</strong> Right.
Well best estimate sort of assumptions.
There are some of those assumptions that I think we're doing better at.
For instance mortality.
In general when I -- hear for my businesses and when we report it to we generally do better than pricing.
Do I know exactly how that will translate in the amount? No.
But generally we've done been better in that assumption relative to pricing.
Interest rates we've obviously been a little lower than the pricing assumption and we look at that assumption.
There will be some more we do better.
There will be some more we do worse.
It's always that way whenever you go through one of these unlocking processes.
I don't know what the answer will be in the third quarter.
I feel good about where we are and I feel good coming into the process.
Our next question comes from Ryan Krueger from Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> Randy what's your outlook for AXXX reserve solutions in the back half of the year? I think my understanding is that the supply is pretty strong and the price is pretty good right now.
So is there any reason to think you wouldn't be able to complete something in the back of the year? We did a number of transactions last year.
I've talked about that and all that impacts growth in the earnings.
You see it in the Life -- here in the Life business.
And you've seen it reflected in some of the share buyback activity we've had.
So I'm not giving point of guidance at what we're going to do over the remainder of the year.
We obviously look at these things regularly to see if we have both capacity and the ability to do more of those.
You are right.
The marketplace is open.
So there is capacity.
It's at a reasonable price.
I don't know if we'll complete any this year.
Remember that we did 3 of these transactions last year.
We'll see.
We'll do our best but I'm not giving any point of guidance yet.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up on the interest rate discussion.
The 1.5% or 1.4% to 1.5% scenario what does that correspond to for new money rates? We would -- it varies by business right? We would use as part of that process in more of a long-term average credit spread than for instance the credit spread that we experienced in the first half of the year.
So if those treasury rates were more of a long-term look at what credit spreads typically are it varies by business.
It's going to be a little higher for a business like long-term Universal Life or the investment strategy is more of a 30-year strategy than it would be for the Annuity business.
So it varies.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then last one on SGUL have you guys seen any changes in lapse rates to this point in the low interest rate environment? No we haven't actually.
We've seen lapses in that business run a little above what we've priced for.
Frankly we've said that in the past.
So we haven't seen an explicit response to rates being low.
Our next question comes from Joanne Smith from Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> My questions have all been answered.
Our next question comes from Mark Finkelstein from Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Actually just a follow-up to Ryan's question.
What would be the impact of profitability if you did see a decline in the lapse rate? I think you gave some information at your Investor Day where you did see some declines in both SGUL and the non-SGUL books.
I'm just curious if you had say 100 or 150 basis points change in the lapse rate how would that impact profitability? Mark I don't have updated guidance relative to what you've seen before.
We feel really good about both the lapse assumption that's in our current models and the lapse assumption we're actually experiencing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just thinking about rates on the VA business I guess the first question is are you fully hedging the product right now? Or are you taking any kind of rate that's currently? And then secondly do you need to kind of make any further adjustments to the product given where we are today? Mark let me take the first half of that.
We -- it is a hedging program so we continue to hedge the liability as we calculate it.
So I'm not taking any explicit bet with the hedge program right now.
Let me turn the second part of the question over to Dennis.
Mark we did -- as you know we've moved to these Protected Funds and the ROE on that business is pretty good because of the change in our hedge cost.
We're seeing increasingly more of that selection being made so that's a good direction.
Another action that we took was on the non-protected fund asset mix and the sub-accounts.
We lowered the rates 50 basis points the guarantee rate the long-term guarantee rate roughly 50 basis points.
Back to my earlier comment we have a like-for-like focus on getting the appropriate return on our capital.
A lot of moving parts both in the economy and the capital markets and as those become entrenched for any long period of time we'll make the appropriate adjustments.
I show no further questions at this time and would like to turn the conference back to the speakers for closing remarks.
Well we want to thank you all for joining us this afternoon.
And as always if you have any questions please follow up with me at the Investor Relations line at 1 (800) 237-2920 or via e-mail at investorrelations@lfg.com.
Again thanks for your time today and have a good afternoon.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect at this time.
Speakers please stand by.
Good morning and thank you for joining Lincoln Financials Group Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Jim Sjoreen.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good morning and welcome to Lincoln's third quarter earnings call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about liquidity and capital resources and income from operations are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln's website www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to their most comparable GAAP measures.
Presenting on today's call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
So at this time I would like to turn the call over to Dennis.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone.
Knowing many of you on the phone live or work in the Northeast let me first say Lincoln hopes your families friends and colleagues are safe following the storm.
Now turning to our results.
Lincoln had another overall good quarter with our performance driven by many of the actions we have talked about during the course of the year.
On a normalized basis we ended the third quarter with operating return on equity at 11%.
And compared to the prior year quarter income from operations per share is up 14% operating revenue growth a little better -- up a little better than 3.5%.
Actions that contributed to these results include: Significant sharebacks -- buybacks driven by strong earnings redundant reserve financings and the allocation of capital from the Lifeline as we raised prices and saw somewhat lower sales; distribution expansion and reorganization that resulted in improved sales in Group and Retirement Plan Services; product repricing that help maintain a good return on capital associated with new sales as well as a pivot to products that are good consumer solutions and priced better given low interest rates and finally crediting rate actions that help mitigate the interest margin impact of low investment yields.
Our investment portfolio maintains an overall A- rating and we continue to invest in high-quality fixed income securities.
Our net unrealized gain on our investment portfolio has increased to $9.4 billion or 13% of assets.
This is a record level of unrealized gains the amount reflecting a long duration of our invested assets which is driven by our asset liability management practices.
We also continue to pursue incremental yield opportunities that provide attractive risk-adjusted returns such as expanding our sourcing for private placements middle-market loans and increasing the overall commitment to our alternative asset program.
We expect the tough macro conditions will persist but so will the actions we are taking to keep us on track to meet all of our goals and objectives.
Let me now share more on the underlying businesses.
Life Insurance sales for the quarter were $112 million down from the prior year.
Again this decline was related to our ongoing efforts to aggressively reprice guaranteed universal life.
We are beginning to see competitors reprice their GUL products somewhat improving the opportunity for growth going forward.
Our pivot to the sale higher return products like Variable Universal Life Indexed Universal Life and term insurance grew 23% from a year ago.
These products now comprised 32% of our total Life sales while GUL accounts for just 22%.
We remain focused on improving the overall attractiveness of our pivot products as evidenced in the third quarter by the launch of the latest generation of our VUL product.
The breadth depth and proficiency of our distribution teams will help us continue to drive the right mix of Life product sales.
Our Annuity business also had a good quarter overall.
On the product side we continue to emphasize our protective strategies.
These risk-managed funds embed volatility management inside the client accounts benefiting the client and reducing cost associated with the hedging of living benefit riders.
In the third quarter more than 70% of variable annuity deposits went into these products.
Once again moving this much product production to new products underscores distribution strength and quality.
Variable annuity sales were steady in the third quarter at $2.2 billion up 2% over last year.
On the distribution side our partnership with Primerica remains a source of growth and diversification.
In October sales for this network surpassed the year-end goal of $250 million.
More broadly despite an expected bump in fixed annuity lapses positive net flows we saw in the third quarter helped drive annuity account balances of $94 billion up 16% from a year ago.
As in Life many competitors are tightening up their annuity features and pricing.
We are encouraged by the firming of product pricing either through price increase or somewhat lower benefit in both the Life and Annuity businesses.
This is a very good trend for Lincoln as well as the industry.
Turning to Retirement Plan Services.
We continue to see advancement in sales and net flows highlighting our ability to win new business and retain existing clients.
Total deposits were $1.7 billion in the third quarter as our investments in distribution expansion and enhanced web presence and conversion to a new recordkeeping platform contributed to an 18% increase in first year sales across both small- and mid- to large-case markets.
We experienced year-to-date growth in recurring premiums of 7.4% evidence that our high-touch model continues to be valued in the marketplace.
We currently have 100 relationship managers who work closely with our plan sponsors to retain business while our 300 on-site retirement consultants and advisers help educate participants and drive increased participation and renewal deposits.
Collectively these efforts contributed to net flows in the quarter of $232 million.
This marked the fifth straight quarter we have seen positive flows which for the year are 2x greater than a year ago.
In Group Protection third quarter sales were $97 million representing an approximately 30% increase from the year-ago quarter and driven largely this quarter by a 78% increase in voluntary sales.
Sales growth this quarter versus a year ago was also driven by the strategic actions we are taking in this business including a 25% increase in Lincoln sales force and a 20% increase in productivity.
More feet on the street have led a to 15% increase in brokers selling the segment's products.
In addition we rounded out our voluntary solutions with the third quarter rollout of a vision product.
Net premium growth of 8% was about half attributable to net sales growth and the balance in force management renewal pricing and in-plan [ph] employee growth.
It is our view that a deepened distribution network combined with the actions we are taking on product and services will continue to position Lincoln well for near- and long-term opportunities in this space.
Turning to distribution.
Retail and wholesale remain core to driving our pivot to the higher return products that continue to yield good results this quarter as well as enable us to sell products on our terms.
We'll continue to tap these deep resources which reaches 60 000 to 70 000 advisers each year who choose our solutions for their clients.
Our recent realignment that brought the 2 systems into a single structure means that we can now better tap 2 powerful franchises that remain sources of our competitive strength.
Let me say -- let me close by saying that low interest rates remain a challenge but we are clearly not sitting on the sidelines and have taken swift and aggressive actions to respond.
We took another step in September restructuring the organization to improve efficiencies and lower core operating costs.
Although not large in itself it adds to the cumulative actions we are implementing to improve earnings growth and ROEs.
With that I'll turn things over to Randy.
Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of $335 million or $1.18 per share for the third quarter while normalized operating EPS grew 14% to $1.06 per share.
I'll get to the buy segment results in a bit but let me start by talking about some of the larger items that impacted the quarter's results starting with the annual review of actuarial assumptions which we completed during the quarter.
The net impact of the assumption review on operating income was a small positive an additional positive impact on net income.
Notable assumption changes included: A reduction in our interest rate assumption or what we refer to as the J curve.
The change included resetting the new money rate to current levels and then grading to the ultimate new money rate which was reduced by 50 basis points over a period of 7 years.
Well that's a perfectly good description of what went into the change.
It might be more illuminating to talk about the outcome which is that for the first 3 to 4 years new money rates essentially follow the forward curve.
After that the forward curve flattens out a bit relative to our assumption.
We will obviously continue to assess and review this assumption.
But for now I feel very good about where we are.
The total impact of this change was negative $120 million with the majority of the impact in the Life business.
A change in our life mortality assumption to reflect mortality performing better than that assumed in our DAC models.
This had a positive impact of $105 million.
And finally refinements through variable annuity policyholder behavior assumptions that had a small impact on the annuity results accounted for all of the positive net income impact.
Additionally during the quarter we had a net benefit on the income tax line primarily from the closing out of several tax audit years.
This resulted in a favorable operating earnings impact of $60 million with $54 million appearing in the Other Operations segment and $6 million in the Life business.
And finally in the Other Operations segment we recorded $25 million of negative items associated with a legal accrual and a restructuring that we undertook during the quarter.
Between the review of actuarial assumptions closing of open tax years and the other items that I noted there were obviously a number of moving parts in this quarter's operating results.
I am very pleased and believe that it speaks to the underlying quality of the balance sheet and business fundamentals that the net impact of all of the changes had a positive impact on the quarter's results.
Turning to operating revenue and expenses.
Operating revenue growth of 6.5% was impacted by the assumption review.
I put normalized revenue growth at 3.5% to 4% driven by strong equity markets and positive net flows.
G&amp;A grew $38 million or 10% from the third quarter of 2011.
G&amp;A growth was primarily attributable to the restructuring charge and continuing investments in distribution and technology.
With that as a backdrop and looking at key value drivers on a normalized basis operating return on equity of 11% and book value per share growth in excess of 7% continue to trend a strong performance.
Turning to net income.
We reported income of $402 million or $1.41 per share.
There were a number of items that impacted net income.
I will not repeat the detail that we provided in the press release but I will note very strong performance of our VA hedge program which contributed $15 million of positive income to the bottom line.
Turning to segment results and starting with annuities.
Reported earnings for the quarter were $139 million or $148 million when normalized.
On a normalized business ROE in Annuity business was 19% and return on assets came in at 64 basis points while normalized interest spreads remain stable in the 180-basis point range.
All in another great quarter for the Annuity business.
In the Retirement business earnings were $29 million or $32 million when normalized.
On a normalized basis ROE came in at 12.5% while ROA was 30 basis points.
Consistent with previous guidance we did see some impact on interest spreads in the Retirement business with spreads down 8 basis points from the prior period or 5 basis points when you adjust for the impact of alternative investments and prepayment income.
Benefiting from continued positive net cash flows the Retirement business saw strong asset growth in the quarter with the average account values up nearly 9% which helped offset the headwind of spread compression.
Investments in distribution and our technology platform continue to be key drivers in asset and earnings growth in the Retirement business.
Turning to Life Insurance.
We reported earnings of $154 million or $137 million when normalized.
Reported interest spreads were negatively impacted by a number of items.
I put normalized spreads at a little above 1.95% down 3 basis points from the prior quarter.
This is consistent with the 10- to 15-basis points spread compression per year that we expect to emerge.
Average account buys grew in excess of 5% while face amount grew a little less than 2%.
Of note the Life business continues to be a strong contributor to our capital management strategy as pricing increases have caused new business levels to decline freeing up capital for other uses.
Group Protection business had a challenging quarter from a bottom line standpoint reporting income from operations of $16 million.
Top line performance remains strong with operating revenues up nearly 8% over the prior year quarter while the nonmedical loss ratio of 75.7% was elevated by both mortality and morbidity with a total impact of $10 million.
Obviously a tough quarter for the Group business but after analyzing the quarter's results we do expect that the loss ratio should migrate down into our targeted range in the fourth quarter.
While I do believe that the current economic environment is creating more volatility than we are used to seeing I'm encouraged that when you look at the results averaged over a number of quarters that we do see loss ratios more in line with expectations.
Turning to the balance sheet and capital management.
As we approach the end of the year we are getting more clarity on what our risk-based capital ratio will look like.
My best estimate is that all else being equal we should end the year a little below 500% call it 490% or so.
This is 10 to 15 points below where we started the year and is in line with our expectations.
Cash at the holding company was just north of $600 million about $100 million above our targeted level of holding 18 to 24 months of debt service coverage and we repurchased 4.2 million shares for a total cost of $100 million bringing the year-to-date total to $400 million.
Based on where we are today we will exceed our initial guidance for $400 million of capital deployment in 2012.
In closing I'm encouraged by our performance in the first 3 quarters of the year.
Double-digit EPS growth growth in book value per share continued strong ROE performance and aggressive capital management all speak to our focus on those items that over time should drive shareholder value.
With that let me turn the call over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Research Division</strong> First question is on the DAC review.
I guess Randy you didn't unlock for the positive equity markets I'm assuming giving your commentary so that sort of remains I'll call it a cushion out there.
So first is that correct? And then second if you did unlock that mean reversion how much of a positive unlock would that have been? Yes Suneet you're absolutely correct.
We did not unlock that assumption.
It remains in the -- that range of $200 million to $250 million.
Research Division</strong> And is that pretax or after tax? That's a pretax number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess my second question is just on the interest rate sensitivity.
Almost a year ago I think you gave us your reserve redundancy of like $8 billion and then moving to $6 billion if we stayed in a 2% 10-year treasury world for 10 years.
And I guess since then a couple of things have changed.
Obviously yields have come in a little bit.
I think corporate spreads are a little tighter and then you have AG38 get some clarity.
So sort of factoring in those 3 things and anything else that will influence that how are you thinking about that $6 billion number now? Well Suneet first it's a fourth quarter analysis the appointed actuary and the team are focused on doing that work as we approach the end of the year.
As we sit here today based upon the environment that existed over the last year I think we've performed pretty much in line with our expectations.
I don't expect material changes but work's being done here in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> So we'll get an update on that analysis when you guys report fourth quarter earnings? I would assume we'll eventually give an update on that.
Our next question comes from Chris Giovanni from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you maybe just provide an update in terms of kind of continued philosophy around capital management actions related to buybacks the dividends as well as well as further debt paydown? Sure Chris.
Well as always it is the -- we're approaching our November Board meeting which typically when we discuss dividends with the Board.
So I'll hold off on that assumption.
At a macro level we remain very well-capitalized.
We have a very strong capital position strong cash flow strong ability to push cash to the holding company.
So the number on a normalized basis continues in that $400 million range.
Obviously we're leveraging a bit.
Our strong capital position this year as I mentioned in my notes expect to go over that $400 million number this year.
So we're not going to give you a specific guidance but we're not done for the year.
We remain well-capitalized.
We have a lot of cash at the holding company strong position in life companies and we'll remain very proactive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you made some additional comments in terms of asset classes you're expanding to within the investment portfolio.
I think last quarter you talked about maybe 15 to 20 point of RBC drag from taking on incremental risk.
I guess has that changed? And then as you increase exposure to alternatives just managing kind of the volatility within the investment income line.
Well Chris let me first say that broadly speaking our program which includes increasing alternatives sourcing additional private placements sourcing additional middle-market loans not all of those activities are a call on RBC.
We did about 425 million of that so far this year and we expect that the return on it would be 250 basis points above over time what we'd get on investment grade corporates.
So we are pushing that as one of our yield enhancement strategies.
Again very cautious about getting the right risk-adjusted returns.
I don't think that we see this as a dramatic change in our RBC but Randy may want to expand on that.
Dennis I'd absolutely agree.
Chris as I said in the past when we look forward distributing capital the way we're distributing we expect RBC ratio to drift down 10 to 15 20 points a year so just as we project forward and the risk in the organization grows et cetera.
So we'll look at these programs.
They do use a little more incremental capital but I don't expect that they'll fundamentally change that analysis Chris.
Our next question comes from Ryan Krueger from Dowling.
LLC</strong> How should we think about the impact of the mortality adjustments to the Life DAC assumptions? And I guess my question relates to the go-forward operating earnings impact.
Should we think about getting some negative go-forward implications since you've now assumed a better mortality assumption that's already baked in? Ryan no looking forward I would expect no negative impact relative to the assumption.
How I'd think of the assumption change is no different than I think of any other assumption change.
Ryan as with all these things when we get credible information we reflect it in our models.
We did that on the J curve side and that was also the case in the mortality side.
We had a lot of credible information.
Obviously we're a large player in the Life Insurance business.
We have a lot of data that we can use.
We were running better than our DAC models and so we reflected that in the models net of positive benefit but no impact on go-forward earnings.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then a broader question.
It's pretty clear that you guys have been frustrated with your stocks valuation.
And over the last year I guess we've seen Genworth monetize a couple of Life Insurance blocks that's freed up capital at 20x the lost cap earnings.
You also have seen Hartford of their individual Life business that freed up capital at 12x GAAP earnings.
You're structured at 6x earnings and I think it's fair to assume that a lot of that relates to the individual Life business.
So I understand there's differences between the businesses but why not look to monetize at least some portion of your individual Life block to capitalize on the apparent valuation discrepancy? Any thoughts there would be appreciated.
Yes this is Dennis.
Let me say like you we're very aware of all of the capital management opportunities that are in the marketplace and we'll select the ones that we think translate into best shareholder value over the long term.
So right now share buybacks is the best place to put excess capital but we'll continue to look at the trade-offs.
Ryan let me also mention that every time we do a reserve financing we're generating capital from the Life business.
So I can't think of anybody in the industry who's done more reserved financings than us.
So we have capability there.
We've used that capability in the past.
It helped us do things like accelerate share buybacks.
So we're not standing still.
We're generating capital.
We've talked about -- very openly about the price increases we've put through on the Life side which lowers sales which frees up capital.
So I think we are being very proactive on that front.
Our next question comes from Steven Schwartz from Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple here.
First I think for Randy the discussion of the J curve if I understood you correctly tell me if I'm wrong that you're assuming that for 3 to 5 years rates kind of follow the yield curve -- the forward yield curve and then you move from there to assuming some type of parallel shift in the curve.
Is that the way to think about this? So let me go through this again.
First off you mentioned that the absolute -- the key point which is that for the next 3 to 4 years we're very tight with the forward curve.
Just factually if you look at the forward curve after that it flat -- it really does sort of flattened out.
Even though I think it's really -- it's anybody's guess what rates will be 5 years from now but just the forward curve itself flattens out after the 3- to 4-year period.
While our assumption continues to move up.
We moved down that ultimate rate by 50 basis points but we go from current rates to that ultimate rate over a period of 7 years.
So in the last half or so of that 7-year period we're going to deviate a little.
I feel very good about where we are today.
We'll obviously we'll continue to assess this.
We've done this a couple times.
Very proactive I think we get in front of these assumptions as good as anybody so we'll continue to assess but we're happy where we are today.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Relative to AG38 how are you feeling about the reserves on the in-force block? Yes I'll handle that.
Let me first say that the resolution that was approved I guess in last 60 days was a very satisfactory one for the regulators for the companies.
We know it has 2 pieces 1 is retroactive and 1 is new business.
To specifically answer your question although we have a little more work to do as we get toward the year end we don't expect any significant increase in our aggregate reserves as a result of the adoption of the retroactive change.
On a new money -- new business basis reserves are a little higher we've anticipated that in some of our repricings that we've already done.
And as we get into the new year whether or not we'll have to take further action will depend on all of the considerations that go into pricing new business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that was actually going to be my next question.
So new business it's -- you're basically using at least right now you're basically using the same types of products the same design of products just lifting rate a little bit? Yes.
But there -- my point was that independent of the design the new AG38 requirements across different designs for new business reserve requirements are higher.
My point was that we anticipated some of that in the pricings that we did this year and that next year we'll look at if we have to do more.
Our next question comes from Mark Finkelstein from Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question just going back to the DAC division is if you were to actually go down to the curve in terms of the long-term assumptions the forward curve what would the DAC impact have been on that basis? Mark let me take [ph] you back to the sensitivities we've been giving for a long long time because they don't changed which is each 50 basis points is roughly $125 million.
I think our curve relative to that flattening in the forward curve roughly 80 to 85 basis points of difference I think out there at the ultimate point.
So you can do the interpolation.
But once again key point for those first 3 to 4 years tight of that forward curve.
We feel very good about where we are today.
I would just add to that on a present value basis if would be hard for you actually do that calculation because on a present value basis it's the early years that make the big difference just to -- as we all know that what happens when you're doing discounted flows.
It's a fair point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess in the fourth quarter you'll kind of go through your goodwill review and share that with us.
And I guess I'm just -- theoretically do you go through that study any differently this year than you did in the past? And I guess I'm thinking about Met a little bit in terms of that charge that they took yesterday which was very much related to a fair value test.
You guys historically have kind of used that as a first step and then kind of in step two did the -- kind of looked at the future value of new business et cetera to justify that goodwill.
I'm just curious if you look at the study any differently this year just kind of knowing how valuations have continued to be very depressed.
Well Mark first off it's an accounting-based test it's a 2-step test so I don't think the way one company does it is any different than another company.
But let's talk about us specifically.
You're right absolutely right.
We do this analysis in the fourth quarter so I'm not going to get in front of that analysis.
But let's talk a little bit about the facts that we do know.
It's about 4 years ago when we got ahead of this issue and wrote down our annuity goodwill by $600 million.
I would note that that impact was driven by an increase in the discount rate to the Annuity business.
Over the last 4 years we've written-off 100% of the goodwill behind our media business.
And last year end I think we got in front of the Life issue with a $650 million write-down.
So we're doing the analysis as we speak but we have been very proactive.
I think we've been out in front of these issues for the last 4 to 5 years and I feel very good about where we are today.
Our next question comes from Jeff Schuman from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if we could talk a bit more about mortality.
It was just a few years ago there was a lot of concerns about industry pricing and underwriting for higher ages and big-face amounts and concerns about life settlement folks kind of picking off the industry.
Now we see you making a favorable adjustment to your mortality assumptions behind DAC.
I mean can we interpret from that that you feel pretty good about how that older age underwriting and pricing is holding up? Jeff we have always felt good about our underwriting and our mortality experience.
Mortality for as long as I've been alive has been getting better and our underwriters have done a great job of reflecting these trends and changes over time.
So we have always felt good.
I feel great that this quarter we had the credibility enough information to reflect that in the models but we're in a great place and we've never really had a hiccup in mortality if you go back over the decades.
Jeff I'll just add the -- just stepping back and looking at the overall DAC adjustments but we've talked about all the issues in the Variable Annuity business as to why we're getting good results.
We talked about the Life business.
But a part of all of this is that as we're pricing products and this is inside baseball and hard to compare to other companies we simply just don't push every one of the assumptions to the corner of the envelope.
We try to take a very practical and reasonable approach to what might evolve over time and here's an example of where it's actually -- even though we -- mortality's improving it's still better than we had anticipated..
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful there.
And if I can ask one other area I haven't looked at for a while.
I'm just surprised that the media revenues don't seem to be up that much this year.
I would have thought with some of the heavy political advertising in some of your markets in Florida and Colorado et cetera that we'd see more lift there.
Should we look forward to a little more pick up in the fourth quarter? Jeff I can't speak to specifics there.
I think the political advertising has been a little late to the game this year.
So I think you're probably right.
We haven't seen much in the third quarter.
Now we'll see if any comes in the fourth quarter.
But remember that not all of our stations are in what are called the "swing states" where all the advertising is going on.
And a lot of it Jeff as we all have seen on TV rather than radio.
But the last point Randy made is the best point which is it's very location-specific.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes [indiscernible] thought.
I think you're in Florida and Colorado still which I think are pretty active but maybe it varies within those markets as well.
Our next question comes from Eric Berg from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> In any case I wanted to get a sense for sort of where you stand in terms of the competitiveness of your variable annuity.
Dennis in your prepared remarks you rightly indicated that many companies have been pulling back.
Historically Lincoln has been a follower probably a good thing rather than the leader in terms of offering rich guarantees.
As the landscape has shifted where do you now stand? Well Eric I think I'm going to stick with the general comment that we both in the Life and Annuity line we're seeing competitors announce changes.
You'd have to get into a lot of detail to say where in each product line and what sell for example in Life where we stand.
But generally in the Lifeline prices are going up on GUL people are making changes that haven't made changes in the early part of the year.
And in the Annuity business we're seeing people lower payout benefits seeing them increase premiums.
At this point in time although the competitors have come closer to where we are already the combination of the strength of our distribution and the overall positioning that we have is still pretty good.
We picked up a little bit of market share might pick up a little bit more.
But as you know we don't look at market share as a driver here.
We look at putting well-priced products well-hedged products into the market that are good consumer values and good return and risk profile for our shareholders.
LLC Research Division</strong> My second question relates to what would appear to be a growing maybe a trend.
It's not clear whether it's a trend but developments in the marketplace regarding some of your competitors Principal Prudential entering into these pension closeout transactions.
My question is one that I haven't had a chance to ask before of others so I'd like to ask it of you and your colleagues at Lincoln.
It's my sense that from talking to the consulting actuaries that everybody not just the insurance industry but pension plan sponsors have sort of not gotten it right with respect to longevity risk have repeatedly underestimated the pace of progress in lifespans and that therefore we should have some concerns perhaps about the ability of life insurance companies such as your competitors and Lincoln -- should it pursue this business -- to price these pension closeouts correctly because of the risk of getting longevity risk wrong given the industry's history.
Is that -- is my assessment of the history correct that there has been a problem in pricing longevity risk? And what is Lincoln's appetite for this business? That's it for today.
Eric I'm going to leave the specifics of the answer to that question to the people who are in the business because we're not in the business.
Let me tell you why we're not in the business.
We're not in the business because we are almost 100% focused on the manufacture and distribution of retail products which requires a distribution network.
It requires product manufacturing capability.
It requires good service across the board.
It's a holistic view as to how to get good returns on your money.
We've never been in wholesale businesses where somebody's on the phone calling up for funding dollars overnight and then trying to take some type of either ALM risk or credit risk I mean that's not anything that we've ever been in or do we plan to go into.
So we like what we do which is building a holistic approach to making money on real retail product.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a question first on just your Disability business.
And overall obviously pretty strong results this quarter but the Disability margins did weaken a lot.
And I remember a couple of years ago you had an issue where margins compressed; they had been improving.
So just wondering what drove the uptick in loss ratios in both the Disability and maybe to a lesser extent the Group Life business.
And then secondly just on capital deployment you've been buying back stock at a steady pace.
I just wanted to see what your appetite would be for acquisitions or block transactions because there are certainly several of them in the market.
And if you are interested in those what areas would you be interested in in terms of the businesses? Jimmy let me take the first one and Dennis will take the second one.
First off back to my remarks I do believe that the economic environment we're in is giving you a little more quarter-to-quarter volatility that we're used to.
But when you look at it over time I think you're seeing results that on average are within our targeted range.
Factually this quarter but if the Group business was severity that was a little higher than we probably [indiscernible] expect.
So we dug through the business.
We've done a ton of analysis and don't see anything systemic about that other than sort of an ordinary blip.
In fact I think if you look at the LTD loss ratios this quarter really stands out compared to the 4 or 5 before it which were all very reasonable loss ratios.
So we don't see a systemic nature in what occurred this quarter but it was little bit a severity.
With respect to M&amp;A we've been straightforward with I think our comments on this which is one we've got a very good history with this team of pricing and integrating acquisitions and have used that as a tool to grow shareholder value for a long time.
So we're quite comfortable trying to find deals that do that.
The areas that we're most interested are the Group Protection business and Retirement Plan Services.
And as opportunities in those areas come along we will be taking a look at them.
As we've also said at least for the capital that could otherwise -- our excess capital that could otherwise be used for share repurchases the litmus test for return on those acquisitions is higher than it's been in the past.
That would capture...
Research Division</strong> That's given the lower stock price and then user buybacks as an alternative? Excuse me? Research Division</strong> That's just the hurdle rate's higher just because the stock price is lower and you could use the money for buybacks otherwise? Well let me say it the way we think about it which is we look at what we think we can get on as a return on buying our stock and that becomes sort of best indicator of what we would expect from an investment return perspective.
I think we...
Research Division</strong> And overall it seems like in the benefits and the pension market there are actually more interested buyers than there are sellers at least that's been my impression what's your view? Again we've been doing this for 10 years and there's always some company that has more enthusiasm for a property than another company has or at a moment in time a particular business.
So maybe right now there's a little more interest in one business versus the other.
These things change over time and I think it persists consistent approach to sourcing pricing deals and eventually something will happen.
And I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I will turn the call back over to Jim Sjoreen for closing comments.
Thank you operator and we want to thank all of you for joining us this morning.
As always if you have any additional questions you can contact me directly at (484)583-1420 or via our Investor Relations line at 1 (800) 237-2920.
Again thank you for your time this morning and have a good weekend.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for standing by.
Thank you for joining the Lincoln Financial Group's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call  [Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Jim Sjoreen.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good morning to all and welcome to Lincoln Financial's fourth quarter earnings call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about liquidity and capital resources premiums expenses and income from operations are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and the soon to be filed 10-K.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln's website www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to their most comparable GAAP measures.
Presenting on today's call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis.
Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
As you've already seen we had a strong fourth quarter contributing to a very good year.
Operating earnings per share was up 13% operating return on equity was 12% and book value per share growth was up 15%.
Recapping for a moment some of the actions and strategies implemented in 2012 that contributed to the strong results for the year: Reshaping and repricing products combined with our agile and capable distribution system allowed us to pivot away from low-return products and transition to higher return products; we introduced new solutions that have bolstered our overall product offerings to better meet customer needs; we repurchased almost $500 million in shares for the full year and effective use of capital given the current stock price; our strategic investments in technology and distribution notably in Retirement Plan Services and Group Protection laid the foundation for ongoing organic growth.
Let me now share results from our underlying businesses.
Individual Life had a very good year offering new solutions and executing on the pivot strategy to shift the sales mix.
Pivot strategy gained momentum throughout the year and fourth quarter sales reached the same level as last year's fourth quarter an excellent result.
The sales mix reflected the successful transition to solutions that not only meet customer needs but also achieve higher returns in a low-rate environment.
Our pivot products include variable UL indexed UL and term insurance.
Collectively these products represented about half of our Life sales in 2012 and almost 2/3 of our sales in the fourth quarter.
[indiscernible] through our early implementers of pricing changes in the GUL space which accounted for just 23% of 2012 sales down from 40% a year ago.
We are seeing more companies now taking similar action and we will continue to take the steps necessary to improve the risk return profiles of our offerings.
Further enhancements to our Life portfolio will include the first quarter launch of an innovative Indexed Universal Life solution as well as the repricing and relaunching of Term products.
Our Annuity business also had a very good year with distribution product and an effective hedge program contributing to our strong results.
Annuity deposits of $11.6 billion drove positive net flows of $2.5 billion.
Account values of $97 billion were up 13% from the year-ago quarter.
On the product side our Protected Strategies which we introduced in late 2011 accounted for more than 75% of the $3 billion in fourth quarter variable Annuity deposits.
In addition as of the end of the year 11% of separate account funds were in Protected Strategy funds.
I have said this before but these risk-managed funds are good client solutions effectively embedding volatility management inside accounts and lowering our hedging costs.
During the quarter we expanded our Protected offerings and made changes to our variable and fixed indexed products that will improve margins as we move through 2013.
We remain pleased with our approach to the Annuity business.
As we look at the market there is a lot of activity on the supply side.
We view this as an opportunity to improve returns rather than capture more market share.
We will maintain our consistent presence in the Annuity space selling solutions that help Lincoln continue to achieve its strong results.
Turning to Group Protection.
Full-year sales were approximately $460 million.
Our sales remain driven by the strategic actions we are taking in this business including adding Group reps which enables us to add and effectively serve more brokers.
Full-year net premium growth of 9% was about half attributable to net sales growth and the balance to in-force premium growth which includes renewal pricing and in plan premium growth derived mostly from our clients adding employees.
Our strategic investment in the Group business will continue with a focus on talent technology and distribution.
We are investing for the long-term in areas that offer high growth potential in the Group space including businesses with fewer than 1 000 employees and the voluntary market.
As in our other businesses we see opportunities for price increases during 2013.
Our expectation is that all of the steps we are taking will lead to significant profitable growth in this business 2 to 3 years from now.
In Retirement Plan Services our results continue to benefit from strong sales and positive net flows.
The 12% growth in account balances for the year was aided by the combination of market appreciation solid retention across all markets and record deposits in the small-case market where first-year sales were up 66%.
66% was related to a new product introduction and seasoning of our expanded wholesaler force.
Total deposits for the year were up 15%.
Net flows for 2012 were approximately $1 billion almost doubling the amount we saw last year.
Investments we are making in RPS notably to enhance our recordkeeping platform and to expand wholesale distribution helped us increase deposits and net flows.
We will continue to take strategic steps in this business that yield both near-term returns and long-term growth.
Turning to distribution.
Our retail wholesale and work-site teams continue to deliver outstanding results.
All 3 systems are key strengths for Lincoln.
Central to our advantage is the depth and breadth of the strategic partnership we have with advisors agents brokers and consultants.
Approximately 65 000 producers chose to sell Lincoln Solutions last year.
Distribution effectiveness has also enabled us to consistently sell products on our terms as evidenced by our pivot strategy in Life Protected Strategy in Annuities and by accelerated sales growth in RPS and Group.
We ended the year with 8 300 advisors affiliated through LFN more than 600 wholesalers in LFD and 500 representatives within our work-site teams.
We will continue to tap into these powerful resources which are important pieces of how we run our businesses how we create value for Lincoln and how we continue to deliver a distinct client experience.
Spending a minute on the investments.
Our net unrealized gain in our investment portfolio has increased to $9.4 billion or 13% of assets.
We continue to have a record level of net unrealized gains the amount reflecting the long duration of our invested assets which is driven by our asset liability management practices.
We also continue to pursue incremental yield opportunities that provide attractive risk-adjusted returns such as expanding our sourcing for private placements taking advantage of additional supply in middle-market loans and improving the overall strategy and commitment to our alternatives hedge fund and private equity program.
To date we have put approximately $600 million to work in these opportunities with an expected incremental net yield of greater than 200 basis points over investment grade corporates.
We do remain cautiously optimistic that macroeconomic conditions are improving and we are taking prudent proactive investment actions to meet all of our goals.
Let me close my comments today by looking ahead.
Lincoln will build on its strong performance in 2012 by continuing to expand and deliver on the core strategies in place for our 4 lines of business.
We'll keep investing in these areas with an emphasis on greater organic growth in Retirement Plan Services and Group Protection.
We will also maintain our focus on new business returns across all business lines just as we did in 2012 by reshaping and repricing our solutions when needed.
Underpinning and driving all of this will be a powerful distribution franchise one that enables us to deliver to clients the solutions that are best suited to their diverse financial needs.
With that I will turn the call over to Randy.
Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of $310 million or $1.10 per share for the fourth quarter up 21% from 2011.
The quarter's earnings serve as a high-quality ending to 2012 which saw full-year EPS of $4.47 up 13% from the previous year.
Return on equity of 11.2% for the fourth quarter and 12% for the full year were both up from the comparable periods of 2011 continuing a pattern of steady improvement while book value per share excluding AOCI was up 15% for the year.
We also saw strong top line performance as operating revenue increased 8.5% for the quarter and 4.9% for the full year as growth across the businesses offset the drag on investment income caused by low interest rates.
Normalized expense growth came in at 4% to 5%.
Reported growth of 14.5% in expenses was due to a number of items including: investments made across the company focused in the Group and Retirement businesses; strong production at the end of the year that drove increases in some non-deferrable expenses; an additional $6 million accrual for the restructuring launched in the third quarter that I discussed on last quarter's call; and the reimbursement on a previously-settled legal case that lowered 2011 expenses by $11 million.
The quarter's results included a few items that on a net basis benefited consolidated earnings by $8 million or $0.03 per share which I'll cover in the respective sections.
Also note that net income of $320 million for the quarter and $1.3 billion for the full year both exceeded operating income.
I believe that speaks to the overall quality of our earnings and our balance sheet.
All in it was a great year from a top and bottom line standpoint that positions us nicely as we move into 2013.
Before I turn to discussing business results let me discuss an adjustment to our prior-period results that we undertook in the quarter.
Review of our tax accounting primarily how we were accounting for affordable housing tax credits led us to lower 2010 and 2011 earnings by approximately $3 million per quarter while increasing 2012 earnings by $20 million while equity at the beginning of 2010 was reduced by $113 million.
Going forward I expect the quarterly impact to be about negative $3 million which is fully reflected in our fourth quarter results.
Our stat supp provides detail on the few line items that were impacted and the Form 10-K will provide some additional information.
Turning to segment results and starting with Annuities.
Reported earnings for the quarter were $162 million or $154 million normalized.
Revenues increased nearly 11% from the fourth quarter of 2011 primarily on higher fees driven by a 12% increase in average account values.
Interest spreads continued to perform nicely in the Annuity business.
As a reminder we expect little economic spread compression in the Annuity business as we continue to be in a position to manage in-force Annuity spreads.
Returns in the Annuity business continue to be very strong with ROE coming in at 21.2% for the quarter and 19.5% for the year.
The hedge program had excellent performance in both the quarter and for the year as the hedge liability tracked very closely with the hedge assets for both periods.
Hedge assets exceeded the hedge target by $760 million at the end of the year.
In Retirement Plan Services we reported earnings of $28 million or $32 million on a normalized basis.
Revenue growth of 5% was held back by lower investment income.
However average account values were up 12% driven by a combination of market appreciation strong deposits and net flows.
Interest spreads came down 7 basis points from the third quarter at the high end of our guidance.
Spreads can be influenced by the timing and magnitude of cash flows but in general with interest rates at their current level we expect spreads to decline by 20 to 25 basis points on an annual basis in the Retirement business.
Normalized ROA in Retirement of 29 basis points has been negatively impacted by the interest-rate environment.
As we look forward while we may see some modest erosion in this measure I would expect that the rate of decline should slow as strong net flows continue to fuel account value growth.
Ultimately I see the Retirement business returning 25 to 30 basis points from a ROA standpoint.
Turning to our Life Insurance segment.
Earnings of $147 million or $138 million normalized remained relatively stable compared to prior quarters after giving effect for notable items.
Our earnings drivers performed as expected during the quarter with average account balances up 6% and Life Insurance in-force up 2% quarter-over-quarter.
Interest spreads continue to perform in the Life business coming in at 203 basis points for the quarter.
Looking forward I continue to see 10 to 15 basis points of annual spread compression in Life Insurance.
Group Protection earned $13 million for the fourth quarter -- below our expectations.
There's a way of understanding what you should expect in the Group business.
I think it's best to focus on everything that went on in 2012.
For 2012 we earned $72 million with the year impacted by 3 main themes.
Life mortality which negatively impacted 2012 by approximately $7 million.
After analyzing the year's mortality experience which during the fourth quarter was very strong we do expect 2013 to return to historical levels.
Elevated loss ratios in the Disability business that impacted 2012 by approximately $20 million.
The increase in loss ratio has been driven by an increase in severity focused in our higher salary bands.
We've been tracking this issue for a time and have started to reflect it in pricing in the last half of the year.
But while we should see Disability results improve as we move forward I believe that it will be 12 to 24 months before we fully put this issue behind us.
And lastly continuing investments in distribution and technology that will continue in 2013.
As we see things today and when we wrap all of these items together we expect to see a recovery in earnings to the $80 million to $90 million range in 2013 for the Group business.
Before moving to Q&amp;A let me do an overview of 2012 and what I see as we move forward.
2012 was a year of active capital management focused on improving performance.
Highlights include $1 billion of capital upstream to the holding company which allowed us to deploy over $500 million in 2012 largely in share buybacks while still holding $700 million of cash at the holding company at the end of 2012.
Looking forward we enter 2013 expecting to upstream $800 million to the holding company which should allow us to deploy $400 million with the majority going into share buybacks.
Life company capital of $7.6 billion and an RBC ratio of approximately 490% both came right in line with expectations.
RBC came down approximately 15 percentage points this year as we manage down our excess RBC position.
A 50% increase in our shareholder dividend of $0.48 per share on an annual basis early pricing actions in the Life Insurance business that both helped returns and freed up capital to deploy elsewhere disciplined pricing actions in the Annuity business as we reported our third straight year of ROEs in excess of 19% in this business a third-quarter assumption unlocking process that saw us adjust both policyholder behavior and our long-term earned rate assumption but essentially no financial impact a fourth quarter goodwill review that validated our current balances and actions including a restructuring that took approximately $30 million out of annual expense crediting rate cuts prudent actions in the investment portfolio and strong share repurchases that when looked at in total allowed us to mitigate much of the negative impact caused by the interest rate environment in 2012.
Taken all together it is safe to say that 2012 was a year of excellent financial performance that exceeded the investment community's expectations for the year but was consistent with our view on the strength of our franchise.
With that let me turn the call over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Randy Binner of FBR.
Research Division</strong> Hard to know where to start but I guess I'll address the lack of the goodwill charge.
Just wondering if you could give any color on kind of how that process worked in determining the fair value versus the carrying value and if it's still the same kind of evaluation of new business and value of business in-force? But any color on the lack of development there would be helpful.
Yes Randy.
As always every year we do a real thorough analysis on goodwill.
It includes both internal and external resources.
We bring in a lot of opinions into the process.
And last year when we did that analysis that led us to impairment of $750 million.
I think what I said coming out of that that I felt really good about the goodwill balance.
And when we did the analysis this year it led to no impairment.
I feel real good about those results and we'll provide some more details in the 10-K.
But outside of that we feel real good about where we ended up.
The next question is from John Hall of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was going to ask a question about the variable Annuities.
And Dennis you mentioned I guess managing the process of not getting too much market share which based on the competitive environment out there there could be a fair amount of market share available.
How do you do that? Well first let me say I'll repeat what I said in my remarks John we repriced in December and we've already seen a decline in AB count as a result of that repricing.
We do expect growth but not outsize growth in 2013.
I'd also point out that 5 years running we have maintained the same market share and we prefer to modulate demand by pricing adjustments.
I don't like to take artificial actions like pulling a hot product for a short process for a short period.
And so if somebody does something like that or somebody changes their supply in the marketplace and we start getting a little bit more share we'll move our pricing up.
So in a quarter you could see some adjustments for increased market share because of actions other people have taken.
But we've been very successful.
Again I'll repeat it our market share has been consistent at 5 for the last 5 or 6 years despite the fact that number 1 2 3 and 4 some of them aren't in the market anymore some of them have moved around.
So pricing adjustments is the way we want to modulate demand or -- excuse me temper demand.
And as to supply in the marketplace actually it's not as clear to me that it's going to decrease.
I think that was the point of your question.
There's actually a lot of people who are coming back into the market.
So we'll have to see what the supply-demand situation is in 2013.
I'd also comment you didn't ask this question but I think it's very encouraging to see smart money coming back into the variable Annuity space.
We've seen some acquisitions of blocks and some reinsurance transactions one just announced yesterday which I think are -- well not I think but the people who are doing this are pretty smart people.
And so I think that will be helpful to people better understanding this marketplace over time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I just have a second question on leverage.
Your debt capital ratio for the supplement is now below 20%.
Is there a thought process around leverage capital management buybacks that you could talk about? Yes John this is Randy.
I think as I said in my comments we expect to continue as we come into the year to deploy roughly $400 million of capital with the majority of that going into buyback share buybacks.
I do expect that when given the opportunity we may do some modest amount of deleveraging.
We feel pretty good about where we are from a leverage standpoint but we'll continue to allocate small amounts.
To give you an example I think early in 2014 we have $500 million of debt coming due or so.
So that's really the next big opportunity we would have to do anything.
But for the near term over the next year I'd say most of the capital will be allocated to share buybacks.
The next question is from Steven Schwartz of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the VA discussion.
Dennis could you give us the parameters of what you did in December? Yes.
We lowered the payouts on age bands under 65 so that the income benefit on the withdrawal product is lower than it was in the past.
And I believe we dropped 50 basis points on those age bands.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could I guess follow-up on the goodwill issue.
I believe in the fourth quarter you also do your asset adequacy testing Randy.
I was wondering how that came out? Yes.
We're still going through the work.
But I continue to be very encouraged.
And I think the guidance that I've given in the past is that I expect no increase in in-force reserves and I continue to have that same opinion.
We do anticipate that with the new AG 38 you'll see an increase on new business reserves and -- but we had anticipated some of that in our pricing of our GUL product.
I think that's probably one of the reasons we were so far off the marketplace in 2012.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on employee benefits -- this is kind of off-the-wall.
But the EBSA recently put out an FAQ where it addressed some indemnity products sold through a -- sold through on a Group platform.
And whether or not those products would be ACAA exempt.
I'm wondering if you're familiar with that and have any thoughts about it if it might affect you? I think we'll have to dig into that a little bit.
We'll be glad to get back to you on the answer.
Steven just one other quick point in the VA space we also lowered commissions so that'll help temper down demand.
The next question is from Suneet Kamath of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a first question on capital.
Just in terms of your prepared remarks Randy I think at the end I missed what you said about share repurchase.
It sounded like maybe you were guiding us to $400 million of dividends or free cash flow and then -- and some of that would be used for buyback.
Is that what you had said? Yes.
I'll just walk you through the math.
I expect to upstream to the holding company $800 million in 2013.
From that $800 million we have interest expense and other uses at the holding company of roughly $250 million $260 million.
And then we have our shareholder dividends that will be roughly $130 million.
So at $400 million between debt interest expense and shareholder dividends that will leave us $400 million for other capital deployment with the majority of that $400 million going into share buybacks.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And is the dividend I think it's lower -- the expectation it's going to be lower in '13 versus '12.
Is that because of the -- to Dennis' comments about the sales level in the Life business sort of being in line fourth quarter of '12 versus fourth quarter of '11? And so that's creating some strain? No.
I don't really anticipate a lot of incremental strain from the Life business as we move into 2013.
I think it has more just to do with the fact that we had a very good 2012 from a capital generation standpoint.
And so we continue to have very strong performance from the RBC denominator for instance.
So going forward I expect $800 million which is sort of what I expect coming into any given year.
We just outperformed a little bit this year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just lastly on the RBC ratio if you were to include -- I'm assuming that's just for your primary writing entities combined.
So if you were to include your offshore captives into that calculation how much would the RBC change if at all? Yes it's really -- I'll break it up into 2 components.
You have the onshore captives which are fully capitalized just like any Life Insurance company.
And our RBC ratio is very comparable if not a little above the main insurance entities.
Then you have the offshore captive where you have primarily the hedge program.
I talked about the amount of hedge assets in excess of our liability so that entity remains very well capitalized from that standpoint.
Where if you were to fold all of those entities back in you would actually see an increase in the RBC ratio.
The next question is from Chris Giovanni of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dennis I wanted to follow up on your comment about the transactions we've seen in the VA space so if you could expand a little bit on that? And curious if there's a role that you think Lincoln can play within the consolidation? Chris it was a very general comment which is you haven't seen private equity money or a big insurance company like Berkshire Hathaway which is public knowledge come into the market in an announcement yesterday in a reinsurance transaction.
So generally speaking I think when you see smart money moving into a market there's opportunity.
And I think insofar as Lincoln is concerned we're getting 19% to 20% returns on this business.
We're doing it the right way as we've said.
So I don't see any specific implications for us just a general observation that when money starts moving into a marketplace that's generally a good sign in terms of the economics of the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of those 19% to 20% returns that you're generating there is the carrier kind of retrenchment that we can debate whether that's occurring or not.
But you made the comment around a focus for improving returns versus growing volumes.
So can you comment what is kind of the targeted returns you're shooting for now with the new product? And if we're generating 20% why shouldn't we be comfortable with you guys maybe gaining a bit of market share here as we move into 2013? Again I guess I'd come back to -- our market intelligence suggests that there's as many companies wanting to come back into the marketplace.
So anecdotally some people saying some producers saying double the business that they've been doing in the previous year.
So some players are going out some players are coming in.
But I'll fall back to what I said we haven't -- the fourth quarter was a little bit different because people pulled out of the market and we got some of that share.
But we've been very effective in keeping demand or sales at the levels that we're comfortable with by changing pricing or reducing commissions as I've said.
So that you can't turn it on and turn it off in a particular quarter.
But over time we can do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the targeted returns on the new product? Yes we're still in that high-teens range.
And when we have strong markets as you saw the returns might show up a little bit better on the GAAP balance sheets.
The next question is from Jimmy Bhullar of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a question first on your Disability business and I think you mentioned that -- and you were seeing some higher severity.
But I was wondering how much of the problem is potentially just underpricing in the past few years? And you are in the process of repricing the block and just some details on how much you've repriced already and by when do you expect it to be fully priced? I'm assuming there most of the book has 2- to 3-year guarantees? And then on Variable Annuities even if you maintain the same market share yours -- flows are positives so the business is growing and it's actually growing faster than some of your other businesses.
So at what point would you say that it's just too big of a part of your business mix given the nature of this product even if the returns are good or -- and are you at that point already because it's -- that's I would argue one of the main things that's been weighing on your valuation and one of the main reasons you're not trading at a multiple that you should trade at is purely on your ROEs? So let me speak to the Group question first.
As you would expect all of us in the Group business have very precise analysis of where the claim increase or -- excuse me where the -- what's causing the increases in the claim ratios.
So what's caused it at Lincoln over the past -- in this year is an unusual cell and that is we're seeing a little bit more increase in loss ratio related to severity.
And the severity is related to the fact that more people in the 8 -- excuse me in the salary band over $56 000 are putting in claims.
The point is that there's nothing coming specifically from the new business or the old block that's too different.
It's just we're seeing something that we've never seen before.
So to answer your question and that might be related to just the post-crises and the long-term higher unemployment.
It's hard to figure out.
Other carriers are having that same result.
So a way to resolve that is to increase prices.
We did do that last year and we think the market is going to receive or be such that we could increase prices again.
And I think the timing of the recovering earnings is what Randy's related to.
So very specific severity issue where we haven't seen it before and over time we'll cover that with pricing if it persists.
With respect to VA at the level of sales and that we're getting right now and the proportion of earnings that we have we're not uncomfortable.
And as I've said we're going to modulate our sales through pricing increases so I don't expect that we will see dramatic moves in Group -- excuse me in the earnings coming from our Annuity business over the foreseeable future.
Now let me also add that I think sometimes people look at the Annuity earnings and think all Variable Annuity earnings.
I'd like to remind you that included and we don't publish it this way but there's a lot of fixed Annuity earnings in that segment.
So when you look at just Variable Annuity earnings it's significantly smaller than what you see in our reported results for the same -- for the whole line.
And maybe we'll in the next analyst presentation we'll break that out a little bit more.
The next question is from John Nadel of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to revisit.
Randy could you just remind us it sounds like $700 million holding company sort of ongoing cash position or buffer cushion or whatever you want to call it is about right? Is that accurate? Yes John.
Our target is $500 million so we ended up the year a little above our target.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a second question is just any outlook or any -- what does the outlook look like for potential reserve financings? I think entering any given year we expect to generate roughly $200 million from reserve financings.
We did that again in 2012.
We did a little more than that in 2011 if you remember.
So I come into the year expecting to do a couple hundred million dollars again and the marketplace looks very amenable to that sort of level.
Research Division</strong> And is that included as part of the $800 million or would that be separate? Yes that's all part of the $800 million of cash going to the holding company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question is just on DAC specifically around the VA business.
Given continued market strengths it seems like that cushion that has built up reflecting the reset that you did on equity markets back in I don't recall if it's exactly late '08 or early '09 but it seems like that cushion that buffer is probably getting pretty significant.
Is there any expectation for actually a favorable unlocking around equity market assumptions? Of course we look at those things primarily during the big third quarter on lock interviews [ph].
But I think we're still very comfortably within our range.
We ended the year with a couple hundred million dollars of cushion on a pretax basis.
So we're still comfortably within our range.
The next question is from Ryan Krueger of Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> First question is do you guys expect any impact from the change in Dodd-Frank collateral requirements on derivatives set to go in place in 2013? You broke up a little bit on that.
Could you repeat the question please? LLC</strong> Sorry about that.
We're just wondering if you expected any impact from the change in collateral posting requirements on derivatives that Dodd-Frank requires in 2013? Ryan no no appreciable impact with the implementation of the Dodd-Frank rules as we understand them around the initial margin requirements so nothing of note that I would point out.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then you gave a bunch of segment expectations.
But just in total is the prior guidance for a $65 million headwind from low interest rates on earnings still a good guide for '13? Yes Ryan.
No update to that guidance at this time.
I think that guidance was given with the 10-year a little lower than it is today.
So that would have an effect.
I don't have an update for the number right now.
I would note that we've had an extended period now where we've been beating the Street by a little bit.
And I think one of the things is that that's a gross number that I think people are modeling.
And what's not getting fully reflected I think is that there are a number of actions that we take as a company outside of that that handwit [ph] of interest rates like expense initiatives like some prudent things we've done in the investment portfolio like the strong capital management that we've been able to do that are offsetting some of that negative impact.
So I would just point that out for you.
LLC</strong> All right.
And then the last one is on statutory cash flow testing.
I understand your comment that you don't expect much of an increase in stat reserves from that over the next few years.
But I guess I'm -- what I'm curious is I think you've said after a 5-year period there could be an impact.
I'm wondering what causes it to be cliff-type of event because a lot of your peers have suggested that they would just gradually build statutory reserves because of low interest rates where I think you differently are suggesting that there wouldn't be any impact but then there would be a larger impact that would occur all at once? Well let's talk about this in total.
One we've said it's $500 million towards the end of the decade and $500 million relative to the size of our company especially when you move out a decade is a relatively small number.
So I wouldn't describe $500 million as a cliff in any sort of way more of a bump.
And by saying that I'm not necessarily saying that would all happen at one point out of that point in time.
So I don't describe the number or the way the impact may occur as anything that I would describe as a cliff Ryan.
LLC</strong> All right.
So we should just think about it as no impact for a while and then if rates stay low there could be some impact over time that could reach $500 million? And that's why we spike out this unrealized gain.
Now we all know the unrealized gain is because interest rates have gotten lower.
But when you relate the size of ours to the general account at 13% I think if you sort of did that across the industry you'd see that ours is higher that is our unrealized gain as a percentage of the general account is probably higher than the majority of our competitors and naturally so because we have a little -- well I don't know that for sure.
But that $9.5 million -- $9.5 billion is why Randy can be so confident about reserve confident in our reserve levels for a long period of time.
The next question is from Mark Finkelstein of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> My first question just back to the VA business.
A number of your competitors have taken DAC revisions related to policyholder behavior assumptions largely around lapse.
I'm just curious how your experience is trending relative to the expectations on policyholder behavior and whether there's any issues that you see on the horizon? Well Mark I'd point out that we went through in the third quarter a complete review of all of our policyholder behavior assumptions in the VA business and the net impact of that was essentially 0.
So we adjusted our lapses.
We adjusted our utilization.
We adjusted all of those assumptions to be consistent with the experience that we've seen over the last 5 6 years.
So experience that reflects the crisis and all the changes in behavior that that caused.
So feel really good about our policyholder behavior assumptions feel really good that we're able to go through that process with essentially 0 impact which once again in the Variable Annuity business differentiates Lincoln from almost any other company I can think of.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just back to the Life business I guess it sounds like you in your comments and you said this over several quarters that the pricing largely reflects the implementation of more stringent rules around the reserving for AG 38 into '13.
I guess how meaningful is any further changes that you have to make number one? And then secondly as the competition comes down or up towards your pricing do you expect to see a meaningful ramp up in UL or guaranteed UL production? Yes the -- I was listening.
I sort of forgot the first part of the question.
But on the second part of the question pricing has come back on GUL for both periodic pay as well as short pay.
We still don't want short pay business.
And so effectively you can prevent that from coming in by putting some rules into your systems.
And so we're not accepting very significant amount of short pay business.
I'd also point out that with respect to GUL in general it's now down to I don't know it'll probably even get lower -- it's now down to 23% or 24% I forget what the number is of our fourth quarter sales.
So it's not as significant an issue for us as it was in the past.
And the first part of the question was? Research Division</strong> It was around the pricing.
I think what you'd said was that you're largely there in terms of the pricing on AG 38 for '13 and I was just curious what further revisions if any you need to make and how meaningful those are to get the pricing appropriate for the new reserving standards? Yes.
I'm being corrected the SGUL sales were only 15% of fourth quarter.
And we anticipated the increasing reserves associated with the changes in AG 38.
And so we took action last year.
We price for the overall portfolio in any particular year.
We're taking another look at the entire portfolio to see if we need to change prices to increase returns.
And as I've said in my closing remarks we're doing this in each of our businesses.
There's a stronger push this year to get higher returns in general on our new proffers.
So the AG 38 issue on a prospective basis is an issue but it's one of many as we look at how we want to price business in 2013.
The next question is from Tom Gallagher of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Randy I just wanted to circle back to the cash flow to the holdco and the building blocks of that.
The $800 million that you expect to dividend up I got the $200 million was related to securitizations.
Can you just remind me what the components of the $600 million are? Because I know there's a surplus debenture or I believe there is one that funds part of that.
And so what would that imply your level of stat earnings for the year that you're expecting? Yes.
Well let's talk about this year.
We had statutory operating income of high 7s.
We're still nailing down the final stat but the number will come in a little below $800 million.
So when you come to the $800 million that goes to the holding company as you were right to point out about $100 million of interest between $80 million and $100 million of interest on some surplus note debentures and the balance comes from the Life companies including the $200 million that you mentioned from reserve financings.
So that's what I expect in total for any given year.
Of course we have increasing capital requirements in our Life companies we continue to grow.
And so that reduces your distributable earnings a little bit.
But to the answer of statutory earnings we made roughly $800 million this year.
I don't anticipate huge changes in that number next year.
Research Division</strong> So Randy as a good rule of thumb then -- so that would be of your Life earnings you expect to earn $800 million retain about $300 million take about $500 million then you get $200 million of securitizations and $100 million of surplus debentures.
Is that the rough math? Yes I think your math Tom was pretty good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess my question if that all stays the same next year and VA sales momentum remains strong is that going to -- would that mean you need to hold less to support that growth or do you expect sales to -- the inflows to decelerate so that won't be an issue? All of the sales for all of the products next year Tom are embedded in that number sort of that guidance I gave you.
And they reflect all of the comments that Dennis has made on what we expect from market share what we expect from new business returns.
So everything is reflected in the numbers I gave you.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then my other question is just on can you give any color on what's going on with use of captives in the industry? Is that something that you anticipate you'll be able to still utilize in the future? Do you think there's going to be restrictions on that whether that would be just new sales or in-force? Any color you can give would be helpful.
Look Tom this is a pretty -- the issue is being discussed in the industry right now.
As a matter of fact I represented the industry in -- with the commissioners in St.
Thomas over the weekend and we talked about this issue.
I think it's safe to say that both the regulators and companies in the industry want to make sure that these structures are appropriate.
I think we'll find a good answer.
But it's very early to say what changes if any will be made.
But there's a confluence of interest again between the regulators and the industry to make sure that the structures are -- transfer the risk appropriately and the assets are good assets.
So I'm reasonably confident we'll come to a good guiebing [ph] -- the regulators and companies come to a good solution here that's good for the industry and good for the companies.
But it's hard at this point to give any guidance about what changes if any will be made.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And Dennis just my last follow-up.
So just as you think about things that are being discussed related to use of captives is there an outcome that would make you feel differently about either your Annuity or Life Insurance business as a result? Or do you feel like pretty much most -- any plausible outcomes you see wouldn't meaningfully change your view? Well Tom again not knowing at all how this might evolve and what changes if any are made I can't really comment on if it would affect our businesses.
I would say that from Lincoln's standpoint the large majority of the captive structures that we have on the books have maturities that extend out 15 and 20 years.
And so far no one's talking about anything retroactive.
Again so far no one's talking about anything retroactive.
So the large majority of what Lincoln has is in place and doesn't -- it goes out decades in its term.
And then we had what Randy's referred to as a small amount each year.
So I feel pretty comfortable overall that there's not much that assuming there is no retroactive look at things with which no one is talking about to my knowledge I feel pretty good with the way we've structured our deals particularly the term of 15 to 20 years on most of them.
I'd feel a little bit differently if we had a lot of stuff coming due in the next 12 months.
There is some uncertainty but we're really in good shape.
And so I don't see this.
Again I can't predict what's going to happen.
It's very topical.
It's an important issue for the regulators.
We're engaged as an industry with them.
But because of the way we're positioned it doesn't seem at the moment to change anything that we're doing or raise concerns.
The question is from Joanne Smith of Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the alternatives investment strategy and if you could just elaborate a little bit more on where you're putting money to work and what the opportunities are in that asset class? Yes.
We -- we're going to commit around $400 million more to our alternatives book which I think is about $900 million today.
We've engaged some very good outside help.
We're looking at clear strategies both at a deal level and an overall portfolio level.
And we'll just -- add over time.
We're not jumping to this -- into this in a sense that we've got to do $400 million in the next 30 days.
We're going to put it out over time and be cautious.
More exciting are -- and well that's exciting but as interesting to me is having this additional sourcing of private placements.
And here we're going to ask for 30 basis points of yield.
We have access to product we didn't have before and the credit quality is similar to what we have on our books today.
So there you get 30 basis points of yield just by adding distribution opportunities.
Similarly in the middle markets we're adding specific advisors that can help us structure good portfolios.
The advisors have very good track records.
And all of this over time will add incrementally to yield.
And we're pretty excited about and comfortable with the strategy.
There is no significant right turn in terms of credit risk or volatility in the overall $80 billion portfolio as we move forward with this program.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And just on the Group Protection business you had very strong sales there in the quarter and I was just wondering if you could -- so obviously the poor Disability experience has been pretty much across the space and so I'm just wondering what you're seeing from a competitive perspective there and just talk about how you achieved the type of growth in sales that you did? Yes.
The -- I'm going to connect a couple of thoughts here.
But in direct response to your question the increase in sales comes mostly from the fact that we've expanded our distribution by roughly 8% -- 18% year-over-year which gives us 2 things access to -- it gives us more reps but access to brokers that we haven't used before.
So a lot of the growth is coming from new sources of business.
And expansion of distribution and additional shelf space is something we do all the time across our businesses.
It's the best way to drive growth over the long term.
And I want to connect the question about the Annuity earnings growth rate with this strategy.
We are willing in the short run because we're investing so heavily in the Group business to take a little bit lower earnings while overall Lincoln Financial Group is growing at a good pace.
But we expect more growth and more profitable growth and a bigger percentage of earnings 2 to 3 years out coming from the Group business and the DC business.
So everything is going well from a growth perspective right now.
We want to get these 2 businesses to be a bigger part of our overall earnings mix.
But it takes investment to begin to do that organically.
And so for a little while here maybe the earnings mix will shift slightly away from those 2 businesses.
But 2 or 3 years out from now we're expecting it to increase -- those earnings to increase dramatically.
It's a very clear strategy on our part to invest and sacrifice short-term earnings in those 2 businesses in order for the benefit of the long-term growth rate of them.
Research Division</strong> Dennis is that -- is there like a fine line in terms of pricing where you make a mistake in terms of sacrificing a bit of profit for the growth? I mean I just -- seeing these numbers turn on a dime for so many players so quickly in the past? Yes I understand that question but let me come back to -- we're not talking about getting growth by pricing actions.
We're talking about getting growth by investment in technology and investment in distribution.
So let me be absolutely clear there is no strategy to gain market share by aggressive pricing none whatsoever.
Now back to your question about can things turn quickly in the last decade at Lincoln we've seen quarters where typically following a recession where long-term disability rates move very quickly and then you've got to change your pricing.
So that can happen.
Our business has a net income margin of 4%.
And so you have some room in the loss ratio and some room in revenue growth where you're not going to see for small changes a movement from profit to loss.
But it's a business that has volatility in it.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over to Jim Sjoreen for closing remarks.
Okay.
I want to thank everybody for joining us this morning.
As always we will take your calls and your emails at Investor Relations.
So with that we're going to conclude the call and thank you again for participating.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good morning and thank you for joining Lincoln Financial Group's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Jim Sjoreen.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
And good morning and welcome to Lincoln Financial's First Quarter Earnings Call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about liquidity and capital resources premiums deposits expenses and income from operations are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln's website www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to their most comparable GAAP measures.
Presenting on today's call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
At this time I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis.
Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
Operating earnings per share was up over the prior quarter but operating earnings were down due to high mortality in Group Protection and Individual Life and low alternate investment earnings.
These will be covered in more detail in a moment.
Looking through to the drivers of long-term earnings improvement we had a very strong quarter including account value growth in every business with total account values at a record $186 billion.
Sales results up in every business segment after solid price increases in our Group Individual Life and Annuity businesses.
Expense management producing no increases year-over-year reflecting actions taken throughout last year and the repurchase of $100 million of our shares.
Reflecting these results we ended the quarter with operating revenue growth of 4% and book value per share growth of 14%.
Let me now share highlights from our underlying segments starting with Individual Life.
First quarter sales in Individual Life of $150 million increased 23% from the prior year as we maintained our pivot toward product solutions that achieved higher returns in a low-rate environment.
Guaranteed UL sales were down 26% from a year ago and now represent only 18% of total Life sales.
Sales of our Pivot products which include Variable Universal Life Indexed Universal Life and term insurance were up 82% from the same quarter last year.
They also now comprise more than half of our total life sales closing the quarter at 51%.
Crossing the 50% threshold is significant for us and serves as an excellent example of our ability to successfully deliver on the Pivot strategy we have discussed with you in the past.
We remain focused on improving and expanding our product line as evidenced in the first quarter by the successful launch of our new Treasury Indexed Universal Life product.
Launching this offering bolsters our already strong portfolio of solutions and affirms our position as an industry leader focused on bringing innovation to the marketplace.
We will keep reshaping and repricing products with changes in the second quarter planned for Guaranteed UL products and MoneyGuard.
Underpinning it all remains the depth and proficiency of our distribution teams which enable us to keep driving the right mix of sales.
Turning to our Annuity business.
Strong equity markets and positive net flows advanced ongoing growth in account values that collectively contributed to a very positive result in the first quarter.
Annuity sales of $3.2 billion drove positive net flows of $885 million up from $293 million in net flows a year ago.
On the product side our risk-managed funds strategies remain an effective way to embed volatility management inside client accounts and reduce hedging costs.
Of the $2.9 billion in sales of variable annuity gross profits in the quarter 78% of the deposits included a guaranteed living benefit rider built on our risk-managed fund strategies.
And 9% of the deposits had no living benefit guarantees at all.
In the second quarter we will expand our risk-managed fund strategies further.
Also we continue to improve VA margins.
Importantly we are reducing income benefits on the bulk of our joint survivorship living benefit riders.
These riders comprised roughly half of all the guaranteed living benefit rider elections in the first quarter.
This action is likely to flow sales for the balance of the year though second quarter will be somewhat elevated as product changes are implemented.
We remain comfortable with our approach to the Annuity business and we will maintain our consistent presence in this space.
Our focus remains not on taking market share with low-price offerings but on selling solutions valuable to our customers that help Lincoln achieve good returns and manageable risks.
In Group Protection the first quarter sales of $71 million increased 6% from the prior year.
We remain focused on voluntary market where we grew sales by 61%.
Looking back to 2012 and the most recent market data we saw consistent market share and rankings year-over-year and we finished in the top 5 to the life -- Life and Disability product lines by case count.
Our field force grew by 13% from the prior year end as we continue to invest in the group business to support the 3 400 brokers who currently sell our products.
With this growth and this group of brokers we expect to grow sales.
In line with what we have shared on the last few calls we expect nice pricing to firm in the market particularly in the disability line where we have seen some positive progress over the last few quarters.
Given the market-wide focus on profitability in the group space we will remain diligent in our focus on overall profitability of new sales and renewal actions and our expectation is that all of the steps we are taking in this business will generate profitable growth.
In Retirement Plan Services it was another excellent quarter for all leading indicators highlighted by strong total deposits solid retention and positive net flows.
First quarter deposits of $1.7 billion were up 10% from a year ago driven largely by advances in our mid- to large-market business.
Our sales pipeline is strong and continues to grow.
The successful completion of our new recordkeeping platform in the mid/large market has directly helped us further penetrate the consultant and advisor communities.
In fact consultant firms who previously did not place business with Lincoln now account for 50% of our active sales pipeline in the mid to large market.
This has resulted in significant new sales over the past 2 years.
Net flows for the first quarter were $344 million up 62% from a year ago.
Strong inflows combined with no large terminations contributed to our seventh straight quarter of positive flows.
It is clear to us that our investments in RPS are paying off and we will keep investing in this business to increase our competitiveness market presence and overall growth.
Turning to distribution.
As we've said one of Lincoln's primary strength is the size and scale of its distribution franchise.
Collectively our retail wholesale and worksite sales teams reach annually more than 65 000 active producers.
Producers who sell one of our products.
And the number of advisors recommending our solutions in the first quarter increased by approximately 25% from a year ago.
This is a tangible example of how strong -- how our strong franchise enables us to move forward key strategies including: the Pivot in Individual Life where we had a 52% increase from a year ago and the number of advisors recommending our life Pivot products; the Pivot in Annuities to our risk-managed fund strategies; accelerated growth in sales and net flows in RPS; and a push to stronger voluntary sales in Group Protection.
As I've said in the past we will continue to build our strategic investments in distribution with an eye on expanding an already deep and powerful resource that includes 8 350 advisors affiliated through LFN approximately 600 wholesalers in LFD and approximately 550 representatives within our worksite teams.
Spending a minute on investment management.
Our net realized gain in our investment portfolio was $8.7 billion or 11.6% of assets.
We maintained a strong level of net unrealized gains the amount reflecting the long duration of our invested assets which is driven by our disciplined asset liability management practices.
With low investment yields persisting we continue to incrementally invest new money in high-quality and well-diversified asset classes such as private placements commercial mortgage loans and middle-market loans.
During the first quarter we invested more than $700 million in these asset classes with an average yield in excess of 4% more than a 200-basis-point spread over the average tenure treasury during the quarter.
Our private equity book experienced lower-than-expected investment performance this quarter after a very strong 2011 and 2012.
We do expect quarterly earnings volatility from our alternatives portfolio.
It has over the last 2 years generated strong returns and we would expect good results in the future.
Let me close my comments with you today by saying once again that although we experienced fluctuations in the quarter that affected earnings the underlying drivers of long-term earnings and ROE growth were very strong.
Moving forward we'll keep taking aggressive steps that help us to increase revenue and improve profitability.
In 2013 expense management product repricing to drive new product returns and active capital management are important priorities.
With that let me now turn things over to Randy.
Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of $285 million or $1.02 per share for the first quarter up 3% from the first quarter of 2012.
Overall it was a solid quarter with earnings negatively impacted by few items of note including $8 million in expenses that were recorded in the Other Operations segment.
Adjusting for these expenses I put normalized operating EPS at $1.05 per share.
In addition we experienced $19 million of elevated mortality spread across both the Individual and Group Life segments and $6 million from lower-than-expected income on alternative investments.
I've chosen not to characterize the mortality and investment income experience as one-time in nature due to the fact that both of these items will fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter but felt that the deviation from our long-term expectations were large enough that they should be noted.
Return on equity came in at 10.2% as it was negatively impacted by the earnings negatives I detailed a little earlier while book value per share excluding AOCI increased by 14% to $42 for the year-ago quarter.
Operating revenue increased 4% for the quarter and expenses were flat with the prior year.
Net income of $239 million came in below operating income primarily due to the nonperformance-risk component associated with our variable annuity GLB reserves.
This component moves the credit spreads and is not hedged.
Net realized losses on the other hand were minimal at just $4 million.
Turning to segment results and starting with Annuities.
Reported earnings for the quarter were $159 million while ROE came in at 21%.
Operating revenues increased 6% from the first quarter of 2012 primarily on higher fees driven by an 11% increase in average account values.
Interest spreads remain steady as we continue to be in a position to manage in-force annuity spreads.
Results specific to our VA guaranteed riders reflect both the quality of our book of business and hedge programs as the net amount of risk associated with our living and death benefits continued to decline to $450 million in the case of living benefits and $1.1 billion for death benefits both measures right around 1% of associated account value; while the hedge program had another good quarter with breakeven hedge performance and hedge assets $840 million in excess of guarantee liabilities.
Across all metrics this was another very strong quarter for the Annuity segment.
Of note account values exceeded $100 billion at the end of the quarter a record level for this important measure.
In Retirement Plan Services we reported earnings of $35 million which included $2 million of excess investment income.
Quarter-over-quarter revenue growth of 3% benefited from an 8% increase in insurance fees the result of an 11% increase in average account values.
Market appreciation strong deposits and net flows again contributed to the growth in assets under management which ended the quarter at $46 billion an all-time record level for this key driver of growth.
Interest spread of 1.98% was down 19 basis points from the first quarter of 2012 roughly in line with our expectations for 20 to 25 basis points of annual spread compression for the Retirement business.
Normalized ROA remained at 29 basis points on a sequential basis in line with our expectations for 20 to -- 20 -- 25 to 30 basis points.
Turning to our Life Insurance segment earnings of $112 million were down as a result of the fluctuations in mortality and alternative investment income.
These 2 items reduced Life earnings by $20 million for the quarter with $12 million of the impact coming from mortality.
The quarter's mortality experience was driven by a few large claims primarily in our term insurance book of business.
To provide some context our actual-to-expected mortality experience for 2010 2011 and 2012 was 79% 79% and 78% respectively while this quarter came in at 86%.
While we will have outlier mortality quarters both good and bad I expect that when viewed in the context of a longer period such as a calendar year that we will return to levels more in line with that experience in the last 3 years.
Turning quickly to the Life earnings drivers.
Average account balances were up 6% and Life Insurance in force up 2% consistent with recent performance.
Reported interest spreads were down on the weakness of the alternative investment portfolio.
On a normalized basis spreads came in around 185 basis points down 13 basis points from the prior year and in line with our expectations for 10 to 15 points of annual spread compression.
Group Protection earned $14 million in the first quarter with mortality negatively impacting the quarter's results by roughly $7 million.
The mortality results for the quarter which are similar to what we experienced in the first quarter of 2012 were driven by seasonality and fluctuations that will occur from time to time.
As I mentioned with the Life segment when viewed over a longer period we expect a return to more normal experience.
Loss ratios in the disability business recovered nicely on improved recovery rates and stable incidents.
It's premature to extrapolate these results to the rest of the year as incidents can trend higher and recoveries moderate.
However both metrics show well against the respective 5-year averages which is a positive development.
Investments in distribution continue to drive stronger premium growth which came in at 10% for the first quarter.
We did reduce the discount rate on new claim incurrals by 50 basis points to 3.75% which decreased earnings by $1.4 million and increased the nonmedical loss ratio by approximately 0.5 percentage points.
Before moving to Q&amp;A let me comment on a few items of note.
We continued with our disciplined capital management strategy during the first quarter repurchasing 3.4 million shares at a cost of $100 million.
Cash at the holding company came in at $647 million and statutory capital ended the quarter in excess of $7.5 billion so RBC was approximately 480 both measures down slightly from their year-end levels.
While Guaranteed UL sales were relatively modest in the quarter it did generate some capital strain driven by the new reserving requirement that went into effect at the beginning of the year.
We expect that we will be able to largely reverse this strain with the reserve financing transactions later in the year.
While as I noted earnings were negatively impacted by a few items this quarter we are very encouraged by the continuing strong performance that we see in key growth and operating metrics including: strong earnings driver growth with both average account values and group premiums up 10%; good expense management with G&amp;A flat year-over-year; excellent sales and deposit growth as noted by Dennis; continuing price increases across the portfolio; and a strong capital position that allows for continuing share repurchases.
With that let me turn the call over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Steven Schwartz of Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions guys.
First on the mortality which I guess we'll probably get a lot.
The term was just a few -- on the term side it was just a few large claims.
On the group side did -- was there any commonality between what was going on types of accounts distributors anything like that that might indicate something else than just a random fluctuation? Now Steven this is Randy.
We've looked across the entire book.
And it was I'd say of the excess mortality about 1/3 of it was probably seasonality.
We typically see a little higher claims in the first quarter and the other 2/3 is really spread across the entire book.
Once again to provide a little context around group mortality if you look over the last 3 calendar years the mortality rate is incredibly stable it varies less than 1% year-to-year.
Looking at the first quarter we're roughly 10% above that level with about 1/3 about attributable to seasonality like I said.
So I fully expect that if you look forward and you look over a longer period like a calendar year that will return to the type of experience that we've had year after year after year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the corporate side you noted $8 million of after tax expense there that you thought was nonrecurring.
That would drive if you were to take a look at that that would drive that commission other expense line to certainly lows over the last 5 quarters maybe even longer.
Would that be a sustainable run rate going forward Randy? I think that we had very good expense management across the company.
Now typically when you look at expenses historically you'll see they trend up somewhat over the course of the year as projects get rolling and production typically moves up over the course of the year.
But I'd note that I fully expect that account values and premiums and face amount in force also grow over the course of the year to cover that sort of the expense growth.
So I think it just reflects very solid expense management.
I wouldn't be surprised to see expenses trend up a little bit over the course of the year.
But I expect revenues will continue to grow also.
Our next question is from Jimmy Bhullar of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question just on -- you mentioned limiting sales of secondary guarantee UL just how comfortable are you with the business that you have sold over the past couple of years given the rate environment and just given the reserving requirements? And then secondly on the dental business the loss ratio seemed high even x seasonality.
So wondering if you could actually just discuss what drove that? Let me speak to the first question about how comfortable we are with the guaranteed universal life sales that we've had over the past year.
Each quarter we have been reporting that the expected new business returns on those products were in the 9% maybe the 10% collective when you add all sales up together.
And that those have been 1% or 2% lower targets.
But the fact of the matter is it's a very difficult environment.
We continue to increase our pricing as I've mentioned.
We're going to do it again pretty significantly in the first -- in the second quarter.
So the answer is we're getting 10% on new business sales our surplus is earning 3% or 4%.
We continue to improve pricing.
So yes we're pretty comfortable with the sales that we've made.
But we're going to continue to improve the pricing and be very careful about the mix of sales as we go forward.
I can't be more proud of the execution around this Pivot strategy that we have mentioned this quarter and before.
Randy do you have something on the dental? Yes.
Jimmy you typically see seasonality in the dental loss ratio.
It's a calendar year benefit and so you see the loss ratio is a little higher at the beginning of the year as people use up their benefit and it trends down as people run out of benefit later in the year.
I don't think there was anything in the dental loss ratio outside of that typical seasonality.
Research Division</strong> But it seems like it was been higher than it's been typically in the first quarter that's the reason I was asking.
So normally it does pick up but it picked up a little bit more? Yes Jimmy.
I think it was well within our expectations for the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe I'll ask another one on share buybacks.
Last year you bought back a lot more in the first half than you did in the second half.
Should we assume a similar pattern this year on -- because the buybacks were at least a little bit lower than what we had assumed? Jimmy as always we guide to roughly $400 million of capital management in the course of the year.
I fully expect that we're on track to do that again.
As I say every time that I give this answer we always strive to overachieve and I don't expect any different this year.
We're going to be working hard to get things like reserve financings done.
I mentioned that we'll reverse the strain we experienced on the Guaranteed UL in the first quarter I believe with financing transactions.
So I'm very comfortable with the way we're using our capital to do things like share buybacks and I think we'll continue as the opportunity arises.
Our next question is from Suneet Kamath of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Randy I just wanted to follow up on Jimmy's last question on the share repurchase.
Interested in your comment about wanting to overachieve again this year like I think what you did last year.
If you did do more than the $400 million should we be thinking about higher level of reserve financings being the primary driver there? Or is there something else that you're thinking about that could influence the pace of buyback? Yes I think if you look back to the last couple of years it's been a combination of strong reserve financing a couple of years ago.
And then last year just leveraging a bit of our strong capital position.
We remain very well-capitalized a very strong capital position.
So I think it's going to be a combination of all of those things if we're able to.
Once again my guidance is for $400 million.
We're always trying to overachieve on everything we do.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then can you just talk a little bit about the reserve financing market? I mean you said that you're going to trying to reverse some of the strain that you experienced in the first quarter and I guess how likely is it? And then from a timing perspective when would you expect to pull the trigger on something? The reserve financing marketplace from the suppliers is as strong as it's ever been.
It's as if -- I think the only caution I put out there is that we continue to work with the NAIC captives.
I believe that at the end of the day we'll end up with capital solution -- captive solution that is in alignment with how we have historically used captives but that's the one caution I'll note there I'd say.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just another one on the Group Protection business.
I think in your prepared comments you talked about the voluntary business being up.
At Unum's last call called the last hour they talked about some pricing challenges in that business perhaps some competition some impact from health insurance reform health care reform.
So I guess I'm just curious in terms of what's driving your growth? Is it new plans that you're adding or increased business with existing accounts? It seems like you're seeing a little bit of a different trend than perhaps they were guiding to in terms of the first quarter.
That's a good question.
I think Unum is -- well I shouldn't say I think Unum -- Unum dominates the market and they have a very large market share.
I think the dynamics for them are a little bit different than they are for us because we have a smaller share and so our percentage increases don't require as many dollars of new sales frankly.
But it's a combination of a couple of things.
One as you heard me say our sales force is up 13% I didn't mention it again this year but -- this quarter but last quarter we talked about that sales force being able to reach a lot of new brokers.
And so it's driven in part by the increase in our sales force.
Also it just so happens this quarter that we had 1 or 2 larger cases than we'd typically get on the voluntary side.
And so that helped with the increase.
Insofar as pricing is concerned at least relative to True Group we continue to get better ROEs on our voluntary business.
So that's better business for us from a profitability standpoint.
So we're going to continue to try.
I -- the 61% increase that we saw in voluntary I don't expect that percentage increase to continue through the course of the year but it was a good year -- a good first quarter.
I'm proud of it.
It's good business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one last one on the mortality just so I understand the messaging Randy.
So when you said the 1/3 2/3 was that just for the group insurance business or did that include the individual life? And then I guess as we think about getting back to that -- those mortality -- actually the expected numbers that you were talking about should we assume that you'd probably get the back the 1/3 from the seasonality maybe as soon as the second quarter but that the other 2/3 might take a couple of quarters before that comes back? Or just wondering how that's going to trend as we move forward through the year? Yes.
I mean seasonality and mortality are a little higher.
Mortality in the first quarter is pretty typical across -- we've seen is pretty typical across all of our businesses.
And specifically I spiked out the third in the group business.
It's is a little more volatile in the individual business I'd say.
Now as for the timing of getting back that I don't know.
I think once again on the life side at the end the day our A to E is incredibly steady year after year after year on a calendar basis.
There's nothing in the mortality that leads me to expect that we should expect any different going forward.
As to the timing of when it comes back I can't talk about that.
Our next question is from Erik Bass of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question and VAs.
I just wanted to get your perspective.
I guess the pricing has gone up significantly over the past years and features have become less generous but still seems like we're seeing strong consumer demand for the product.
Just wondering if you have any sense from your discussions with customers or through your distribution as to kind of how much more the industry can reduce feature generosity before customers kind of won't buy the product? I'd just be interested on your thoughts on that.
That's a great question.
We give it a lot of thought around here.
What I look at the Lincoln fact situation we've increased pricing pretty significantly either through reducing the benefit levels or from actually increasing the charge on our riders.
Collectively we've done that over the last couple of years.
We've -- sort of separate from the consumer we've decreased commissions we've also recently restricted add-on payments.
So there's quite a bit that we've done.
And I think as you've pointed out others have done the same thing yet we continue to see good demand from consumers.
So I don't think we've yet reached the point where the price changes the industry has been making is at a the point where consumers don't think VA is still a good product for them for part of their portfolio.
How much further we can do we can go I think we'll just have to see.
It's a combination of not just VA but what other alternative investment opportunities are available to consumer.
But so far so good.
And again at Lincoln we're producing 20% ROEs on a consistent basis.
You heard Randy talk about the hedge fund performance and Standard &amp; Poor's and Moody's both publicly say that Lincoln's hedge performance -- excuse me hedge strategy and risk management is singularly the best in the industry.
So we'll make adjustments as we can.
It's good business and in the right amount we're quite happy with it.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And to follow up on that last point when you say the right amount how do you think about that? And I guess if we are in a scenario where pricing alone is not kind of enough to dictate demand then would you consider actions on the kind of the distribution side that I don't know if need be to kind of manage the sales volume? Yes let me put my comment of the right amount into perspective a little bit.
I think because we aggregate fixed annuity earnings with variable annuity earnings that we leave the impression that variable earnings -- maybe we leave the impression that variable annuity earnings are a larger portion of total earnings than they actually are.
If you add up business segment earnings and by that I mean if you add up the Group business the Life Insurance business the RPS business and the individual Annuity business variable annuity earnings are about 36% so a little more than 1/3 of the total of those -- of that aggregate.
So it's probably lower than what you all think.
I am not uncomfortable with that level as we move forward with our program.
Again we want to see growth but we're not looking for 15% to 20% growth year-over-year.
And how much we will do is a function of earnings mix it's a function of frankly the multiple applied to that by the market over time and I think that's going to get better rather than worse.
We have to look at the potential calls on capital from the size of the book that we have.
But right now we're in very good shape.
I think Randy mentioned just throwing another fact in here that the living benefit reserves and the mortality reserves are only 1% of our -- not the reserves but the net amount of risk is 1% of our account values.
So 1% of our account values excellent risk management continue to change pricing.
And let me just comment -- and then I'm on running on here a little bit but in May we're going to reduce by 50 to 100 basis points the payouts on the benefit on our joint survivorship business which represented about 50% of the business that we had in the first quarter of 2013.
So again in the second half because of that pretty substantial benefit change we expect sales to be tempered from what they otherwise might be in the second half.
Eric just let me add a little bit to that.
I'd say that part of the reason they've come up -- the earnings are about 36% is because the equity markets have performed so darned well.
And I'd definitely put that in the camp of a high quality problem.
Our next question is from Mark Finkelstein of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Randy I think you alluded to it a little bit.
But -- maybe you or Dennis can you just give us an update on where we are in the captive discussions? You guys are clearly involved in discussions that we don't see.
Yes.
First of all the starting point if I can compare it to AG38 is much different because the starting point on AG38 was both a prospective and retrospective application of the new -- whatever the new reserving practice or rules would be and ended up being just mostly a prospective thing some cash flow testing retrospectively.
And I do think in aggregate the industry really had to change its historical reserves in total by much if any.
With respect to captives I think we're pretty much starting from prospective that a lot of good captives have been put in place.
There might be 1 or 2 things that the regulators are concerned about in some of the structures.
But that by and large both the industry and the regulators are looking at this more on a prospective basis.
And the discussions are ongoing.
Lincoln along with other companies in the industry are engaging directly with the NAIC leadership.
And I expect a similar good outcome on this as to what we saw jointly between the regulators and the industry on AG38.
What we're looking for both of us in the industry and the regulators are -- want the captives to be strong.
We want -- we have a focus on solvency when we do these things at Lincoln making sure that they're substantive they're real there's risk transfer.
And I think the regulators once they are satisfied with some of the more sound structures and they can get some comparability and some understanding transparency that it will work out.
But it's in its early stages and it will take a while to work through.
Research Division</strong> I guess just on the life changes.
You talked about kind of putting through some rate increases in SGUL and I think MoneyGuard as well.
I mean how meaningful are the increases that you're making and how do we think about kind of sales levels of those 2 products going forward? Yes.
Well first sometime in the first quarter we restricted single pay premiums completely -- not completely but significantly while we are repricing the products.
On single rate product or short pay products single pay or short pay products we're looking at some pretty substantial increases and premium 16% to 30% so those are big changes.
But with the new reserving requirements and the low interest rates that's what it takes to get these returned.
On MoneyGuard sort of 2 things that we're trying to do.
One is move more of the business to flexible pay which has the better return pattern.
And then we're also increasing the premium requirement on the single pay by 5%.
We're eliminating some single pay -- we're eliminating single pay for ages over 70.
So we're doing quite a bit more at the margin.
But the 5% is a pretty big increase in the movement to the flexible pay versus single pay is important as well.
So it’s pretty significant movement on that.
And just as you've been listening to me speak we're -- last year and this year we're talking about strong price increases across all of our product lines.
You hear us talk about 5% -- excuse me middle and single digits to upper single digits.
In the life side 15% and 20%.
So we're going at it aggressively.
And we still as you saw it had pretty good sales results across all of our lines.
So we're feeling good about it.
Our next question is from Chris Giovanni of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a question in terms of the sort of response from the distribution and that's the major point I mean guys are putting through aggressive price increases.
The industry is doing that broadly.
I mean sort of how are they responding as they look for products to sell? Well let's talk about how this works at Lincoln and then we'll talk about how it might be received by our distribution partners.
So at Lincoln any decision about product changes or price increases is a collaborative decision between our distribution organization and our manufacturing organization.
But that's still very important because as you get to the end seller of the product the financial advisor at Merrill Lynch or the financial advisor at Morgan Stanley we have to make sure that the changes that we're making either in the design of the product or the pricing of the product is going to meet with their needs.
And so everything we do takes significant input from not only internal distribution people but discussions with our distribution partners outside.
So my answer is that we don't do anything that we don't think is a good balance between what the distribution organizations need -- again our partners the 67 000 different individuals that sell our product lines and what we need to get decent returns for our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the product changes that you're making on the VA Randy can you comment maybe just how much you're boosting sort of ROEs or IRRs are you getting on the new product versus the similar old product or comparable old product? Could you ask that again please? Research Division</strong> Yes just in terms of the ROEs or IRRs that you guys are measuring for the product that you're going to be focusing on now in terms of the VA sales changes the changes you're making versus what you sold maybe just a quarter or 2 ago? The change in the ROEs? Research Division</strong> Yes please.
Yes.
Generally we're going up 1% to 2% on the internal rates of return across the board.
That's sort of what the objective is on some of the different products.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just following up Dennis on the last call you made the comment around smart money kind of looking into the VA space.
Curious if you can provide any more thoughts or insight in terms of what you're hearing or seeing on that front over the past 3 months or so? Yes there was the flurry of activities that was -- that were done by the private equity firms I guess predominantly Apollo and Guggenheim.
Everything we hear is that there is -- because they've been so successful and the profitability on what they have done has been high that there's other product private equity firms that are out looking for similar opportunities.
So I think private equity in the fixed and variable annuity business will be a growing phenomenon over time and hopefully a positive impact on the business in general.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just -- would that be your view? I mean I guess you sit on a lot of boards and represented the industry I mean I think there are some concerns that people have on increased risk on the asset side maybe putting companies or the industry at risk.
I mean is that something that you would be focused or worried on or not as much at this point in time? That's a question that I think we have to see how it evolves.
Anecdotally what we've seen is that the private equity firms are barbelling and so that in their portfolio they're putting more private equity in which would be a higher risk more volatile asset.
But they're compensating for that by limiting the rest of the portfolio at least in the cases I've seen to more like NAIC 1-type investments.
And in some instances the actual C3 risk or the call for capital in the portfolios they structure is less than what maybe a typical insurer would do.
So that would lead you to believe that there is no more risk in what they're doing and what the average annuity portfolio is doing.
Having said that that's anecdotal and we'll have to continue to watch as more private equity firms get into the market to see if there's a change in posture that would change my view on it.
Our next question is from Tom Gallagher of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First a follow-up question on the universal life product changes.
The single-pay and short-pay SGUL that you referenced you were changing pricing on what percent of sales would those represent let's say in 1Q or the quarter before that? Is that meaningful as a percent of overall sales? Not since we've introduced the limits of the amount of single pay business that we let flow through the system.
But we want to get out into the marketplace and have single and short pay that's profitable business.
We want to have a complete portfolio of business.
And so it still would represent a small portion of what we do is my expectation but we'd have a product that meets our total returns.
Research Division</strong> Dennis I guess my question -- I just wanted to try and get the context of that change.
If you're not selling much of it by changing pricing presumably it'll go close to 0.
I just want to understand what's going on behind the scenes? Why flag this if it's not really moving the needle in terms of sales volumes to begin with? AG38 came out -- and again I'm just going to repeat what I said.
It's important for us for our distribution partners to have a complete suite of products.
And right now our old single-pay short-pay product is way underpriced for the type of returns that we want to achieve.
So as a stopgap measure and something that we don't like to do we've essentially limited the amount of business that come in on that basis.
So the next step is to get back into the market even though it's a small piece of what we'll be selling but we'll have a product that's a good product for the consumer it's -- it has acceptable returns even with the new AG38 reserving requirements.
And again we'll build out the product suite.
And that's important because people don't come to us for a single product they come to us for a suite of products.
And so we want that full suite of products that strengthens the relationship with our distributors or our end distributors.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
So the reason the sales volume is low is because you're just limiting the amount.
But you don't like the profitability as per new AG38 requirements so you had to get it to acceptable levels even on even on that limited amount.
That's the way I should be thinking about it? Yes.
I think that's a good summary.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The -- and Randy just to go back to the actual to expected I just want to understand that I fully get the message here.
The 78% to 79% a year seems like a very good result.
And this quarter's 86% was worse but still certainly doesn't sound bad in the grand scheme of things.
So you'd said 2 things.
One was that if you looked at it versus a year ago in the 1Q '12 it was fairly similar.
I think I got that right that's what you said.
I just want to make sure that's what you said.
And then I want to understand should we take these numbers to mean even if they do drift up to the mid-80s actual to expected that would still be pretty favorable relative to reserving levels even if the absolute earnings we're going to see is going to be low? Sorry for the long-winded question but I just want to try and get -- better understand this.
Sure.
On the first part I think you were mixing the 2 businesses.
I think I said group was similar to last year and the percentages you were referring to were the numbers I gave for the individual business.
So on the individual side we were higher than we were last year on a -- from a mortality standpoint.
As to the second part the mortality that we assume in our GAAP models and in our recipe reserves that is -- reflects our experience as a company.
And I don't see any threat to those assumptions inside of those models as we sit here today.
So I have no reason to expect that the assumptions we are using in our models need to change at all because we had one quarter of bad experience.
As to our -- your -- just the theme of your -- that your last question about mortality drifting up to 85% that just is not something I would ever expect to happen.
I mean 99.9% of the people that were with us for the last 3 years are the same people that are part of our mortality experience today and those people haven't suddenly decided to die at a 10% faster rate.
I mean experience is going to be what it has been in mortality and it doesn't change at a very fast rate.
Research Division</strong> And then Randy just following up on that.
In 3Q of this past year you did make some I think it was assumptions to your DAC model which released some of the conservatism on the mortality side I believe.
Is that too small to move the needle or is that -- is it possible we're starting to see some of that flow through? Yes I don't expect that we experience this quarter will have really any impact on the assumptions in our model so I don't really see a threat from what happened this quarter.
Our next question comes from John Nadel of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on alternatives.
Just because I'm so curious by the results this quarter.
I mean I think Lincoln is the first and the only company that I've seen so far this quarter across frankly all of insurance that is seeing alternatives investment income coming below expectations.
Is there something specific a specific fund or something like that that might have driven that? That is a great question.
We're -- you expect the performance of at least the private equity to follow the stock market in some fashion.
Let me just give you some statistics that might help to put this into perspective.
Our total vaults [ph] -- total portfolio is $841 million at the end of 2012.
We're taking that up to $1.1 billion by the end of 2013.
And during -- in 2012 that portfolio earned $125 million.
In 2011 it earned $90 million.
But when I look back over the last 24 months -- I'll just pick out some points for you.
In December we had negative $2 million in December of '11.
In March we had positive $42.5 million.
So year-over-year we've had pretty consistent total earnings.
But in any one quarter we've seen swings as high as $45 million quarter-to-quarter.
So my guess is this is just one of those quarters where you just have a bad result and there's no systemic reason for it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so this -- it's helpful.
I was going to ask you so you already sort of answered with how much you expect to take this portfolio size up through this year.
So we should expect as the size of the portfolio grows I suspect your return expectations will be similar is that a fair to assume? So a normal level of alternatives investment income should grow with the size of the portfolio? Yes.
The only caution I would give you there is the same J-curve concept in private equity which is -- particularly on brand new investments it takes 2 years 3 years or 4 years before you begin to see earnings developments.
And so we try to balance sort of the richness of -- or the age of the portfolio and not overload it with too much new stuff because that would drive down in the short run the earnings.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then Dennis I got a question for you just on the variable Annuity business and market share.
I think you've said in the past that Lincoln has been very steadily over some lengthy period of time about the #7 player in the VA market.
But in short term periods of time I suppose that can move higher or lower.
My guess is it's moved higher here recently with your 35% year-over-year VA sales growth much faster than what we've seen from at least the publicly traded peer group.
So I guess my question is this long-winded way of asking it but what level of market position are you comfortable with? Are you comfortable with moving into the top 5? If more of those who are currently there continue to pull back as much as they seem to be doing? If I might just correct the market position I don't know maybe you put more people into that bucket than we do.
But we have been fifth for 5 years.
And we're putting the IRB slides together and we have a very powerful slide in there that in terms of quarterly fluctuations in sales that over the last 5 years -- and when you see this you'll see that our quarterly fluctuations have been extremely modest relative to the industry and that's because we've never chased market share by having a low-priced product.
So again the way we run the business we're comfortable.
We'd rather tamp down sales.
Again we're not looking for 30% 35% sales increases this year.
We can't turn on $0.10 because we don't like to take product off the shelf we don't think that's a good strategy vis-a-vis our partners our distribution partners.
And so we have to do with pricing changes.
And sometimes it just takes a little longer for us to get a pricing change.
I mean it takes 3 4 5 months to properly redesign and get the product approved.
But this May change that we're making is consistent with our strategy.
We've see our volumes get a little bit higher than we'd like them to see.
We have opportunity to improve returns even above already high returns that we're getting and expect sales to slow over the second half of the year.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for joining the Lincoln Financial Group's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Jim Sjoreen.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good morning and welcome to Lincoln Financial's second quarter earnings call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about sales and deposits expenses income from operations and liquidity and capital resources are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Form 8-K 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln's website www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to their most comparable GAAP measures.
Presenting on today's call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis.
Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
Overall it was great a quarter with all of our businesses performing very well.
At our recent investor conference we reiterated our strategy to capitalize on Lincoln's key strengths in the current economic environment and earnings mix driven by growing equity markets rising interest rates and mortality and morbidity coupled with an unusually strong distribution franchise that allows us to pivot nimbly between products that maximize returns from among this earnings mix as market forces change and consumer demographics that increase the demand for what we sell.
This quarter underscores those strengths and demonstrates our execution on that strategy and the numbers speak for themselves.
From the conference you may recall that a little more than a 1/3 of our earnings are driven by equity charges.
The combination of strong net flows and rising equity markets consequently drove equity-based revenues up 20% which contributed to company-wide revenue growth of 6%.
You'll also recall that another roughly 1/3 of our earnings are driven by investment spreads and that those spreads have been declining as interest rates fell.
Rates have firmed up a bit allowing us to invest new money at about 190 basis points over the 10-year treasury today for a gross investment yield of around $450 million.
This gross yield was about 85 basis points less than our portfolio yield.
The good news is that the rate of investment spread compression will abate at today's market yields and the possibility of a turning point to improving investment spread may be coming sooner than we expected.
Remaining earnings are derived mostly from mortality and morbidity and we saw much better mortality and morbidity results in our group Life businesses as compared to the first quarter.
We highlighted at the conference the strength of our distribution franchise and our ability to pivot to both good customer solutions and more profitable products that improve ROE.
This trend continued in the second quarter with outstanding sales results in every business accompanied by stronger new business returns.
Following the collective pricing actions we have made most of our products are expected to achieve unlevered returns in the 13% -- 11% to 13% range with leverage 13% to 15%.
A positive exception is our VA business which is producing unlevered high-teen returns.
We will be focusing on improving product returns even further in the coming months.
Taking action to significantly improve new business returns along with the repurchase of $150 million of our shares reflects our continued focus on capital management and deploying capital at good returns.
We also indicated during the conference that we lowered the amount of certain long-dated guaranteed products.
In other words fewer sales of GUL and VAs with living benefits relative to total sales on a profit-adjusted basis.
Despite a temporary spike in VA sales in the second quarter these long-dated guaranteed products represented about 40% of our product sales in the first half down from 50% a few years ago.
Our midterm plans focus on keeping long-dated guaranteed sales around 30% of total sales.
I'm also pleased to report that Moody's upgraded our ratings and Fitch affirmed them.
The agencies site diversified earnings mix distribution strength and superior risk management as key strengths for Lincoln.
Let me now share from our underlying segments some highlights staying with the broad themes and starting with individual Life.
Second quarter sales in individual Life of $183 million are back to pre-Pivot levels quite a remarkable accomplishment which speaks to our broad solution set and our powerful distribution capability.
Pivot products which include Variable Universal Life Indexed Universal Life flexible premium MoneyGuard and term insurance were up 137% from the same quarter last year.
Guaranteed UL sales continued to decline accounting for just 15% of second quarter sales.
Repricing continued with new versions of single and joint Life GUL products being introduced in the quarter.
Changes to our MoneyGuard product were also introduced and we will continue to make revisions to boost returns while walking -- working towards the launch of a redesigned product early next year.
In our annuity business it was a very good quarter.
Annuity sales of $4.2 billion drove net flows of $1.7 billion.
Account values increased 14% reaching $103 billion.
We anticipated strong VA sales in the second quarter in part the result of accelerated sales ahead of benefit changes rolled out in May.
Average sales volume has declined by roughly 25% of the May run rate and we expect VA sales to moderate in the last half of the year.
Our risk managed fund strategies on our VA products continue to anchor new deposit flow.
Of the $3.9 billion of deposits in the quarter 80% included a guaranteed living benefit rider built on these strategies.
Also 9% of the deposits had no living benefit guarantees at all.
Let me remind you of the significant value that our risk management fund strategies provide to Lincoln and clients alike.
These solutions embed volatility management inside client accounts enhancing account value stability and lowering our hedging costs.
In Group Protection second quarter sales of $95 million increased 7% from the prior year.
Our performance remains driven by targeted strategies in the voluntary space and disciplined distribution expansion.
We continue to achieve strong results in the voluntary market.
Sales grew by 64% in the second quarter led by good growth in both new and existing products.
Our field force grew by 9% from the prior year as we keep investing in the group business by making selective hires that complement our emphasis on the voluntary market and that can deliver our broad portfolio of solutions.
As we have shared on the last few calls we remain diligent in our efforts to achieve strong profitability through new sales ROE and renewal actions.
We are seeing results with new sales profitability in line with our expectations of 12% plus and renewal actions meeting or exceeding our expectations for both rate increase and persistency.
Moving to Retirement Plan Services it was another excellent quarter for all leading indicators with strong total deposits solid retention results resulting in positive net flows.
Second quarter deposits of $1.6 billion were up 25% from a year ago driven mainly by ongoing momentum in the mid-large market.
Net flows for the quarter were $337 million up 68% year-over-year.
Strong inflows combined with no large terminations contributed to our 8th straight quarter of positive flows and record account values of $47 billion up 14% from a year ago.
We continue to broaden our market presence through new distribution opportunities.
Two notable examples are: we recently expanded our partnership with Bank of America Merrill Lynch one of the largest distributors of small employee DC plans through the launch of our small markets solutions.
And our Pivot push in the mid-to-large government space is already adding to our sales pipeline.
These initiatives as well as others will drive further growth of RPS and increase our overall presence in this business.
In distribution our retail wholesale and worksite sales teams continue to drive our core strategies and remain again a differentiating strength for Lincoln.
Annually we reach more than 65 000 active producers and that reach is expanding as evidenced by 16% more producers recommending our solutions in the first 6 months of this year versus the same period last year and the expansion of strategic partnerships in the quarter such as the Merrill Lynch partnership that I just mentioned as well as the introduction of new fixed annuity products for Primerica and JPMorgan Chase.
Selling additional products through our active producer base is the key strategy with many of our sales initiatives tied to these results.
We have seen good traction in the last year.
Notably the number of advisors selling multiple Lincoln products increased by 9%.
We will keep making strategic investments in distribution as we look to expand a powerful footprint that already includes 8 400 advisors affiliated through LFN 600 wholesalers in LFD and approximately 550 representatives within our worksite teams.
Spending a minute on investment management I want to highlight the quarter's strong alternative investment performance compared to the first quarter.
Pretax alternative net annualized return was about 14% in the second quarter compared to 3% last quarter.
Our alternatives program has historically produced solid results albeit variable.
Going forward we expect to see similar results that being attractive long-term returns with period-to-period volatility.
We have made progress in committing capital to our alternatives program both private equity and hedge funds with the carrying value of our alternatives program increasing by more than 20% year-over-year -- as we grow our program from 1% of total assets to about 1.5% of total assets over the course of the next 2 years.
At 1.5% of total assets this is well within our risk appetite and is significantly lower than the average of our peers.
We continue to find more yield and select core strategies such as private placements direct middle-market loans and commercial mortgage loans as we have mentioned previously.
Let me close by saying once again that it was an excellent quarter of reported results with good progress made on actions to build our franchise and expand our growth potential.
An environment of slowly rising interest rates growing stock market consumer preferences certainty and demographics are powerful tailwinds for our industry and Lincoln specifically given our earnings mix.
With that let me turn things over to Randy.
Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of $351 million or $1.27 per share for the second quarter up 17% from the second quarter of 2012.
Overall it was a very strong quarter across all key metrics.
Of note excellent top line performance with operating revenue growth of nearly 6% up from the 4% to 5% level of recent quarters.
Tight management of controllable expenses with growth in G&amp;A primarily attributable to strong production and share price performance.
Adjusting for those 2 items G&amp;A was up roughly 3%.
Account balances increased to a record level of $189 billion; strong general account performance with realized losses related to investments coming in at a very manageable $22 million and balance sheet strength with GAAP book equity per share excluding AOCI up 13% to $43.21; $693 million of cash at the holding company; an RBC ratio of 485%; $150 million of share buybacks; and return on equity of 12.4% for the quarter.
As noted in the press release we had no normalizing in earnings adjustment in the quarter but we did quantify $19 million of positive earnings impact from higher-than-expected investment income on prepayment fees.
All in all a very good clean quarter.
Turning to segment results and starting with Annuities.
Reported earnings for the quarter which included $9 million of higher-than-expected prepayment fees came in at a record $195 million while ROE came in at 26%.
Operating revenues increased 11% from the second quarter of 2012 primarily on higher fees driven by a 15% increase in average account values to $104 billion.
This was a very good quarter for the annuity business that really exemplifies everything that we covered at our June investor conference: a history of responsible product pricing on VAs that has put us in a very favorable risk position relative to our peers with the net amount of risk on both living and death benefit guarantees at roughly 1% of account value; a high quality book of business that has always delivered strong returns that are being pushed to record levels with the strength of the equity markets; a consistent and disciplined approach to controlling new business flows that saw us increase pricing of VA products during the quarter; and a hedge product that continues to deliver excellent performance with no breakage in the quarter.
In Retirement Plan Services we reported earnings of $39 million which included $5 million of higher-than-expected investment income from prepayment fees.
Quarter-over-quarter revenue growth of 5% benefited from a 9% increase in insurance fees the result of a 14% increase in average account values.
The success of our Retirement business to attract and retain assets under management continued in the quarter.
Account balances at quarter end were $47 billion a record level and up 14% over the prior year quarter.
Interest spread performance for the quarter was strong coming in at 2.14% as retirement benefited from the prepayment fees mentioned earlier.
Adjusting for this return on assets came in at 29 basis points right in line with our expectations.
Turning to our Life Insurance segment.
Earnings of $135 million included $5 million of excess investment income from prepayment fees.
Life earnings drivers continued to grow at a mid single-digit pace with average account balances up 6% and Life Insurance In Force up 3%.
Interest spreads came in at 1.98% with the quarter's strong performance benefiting from the prepayment fees mentioned earlier.
Group Protection earned $22 million in the second quarter which marks a nice turnaround from recent quarters.
The non-medical loss ratio returned to the targeted range coming in at 73.5% for the quarter.
I'd attribute the improving loss ratio to strong performance from the disability book as key metrics such as incidents continued to perform nicely and an improvement in life mortality from last quarter's elevated levels.
The group business is also benefiting from strong premium increases with renewal pricing up in the mid-single digits during the second quarter.
Non-medical premium growth which came in at 9% continues a positive trend of high single-digit growth rates the result of increasing our distribution presence new product offerings in the voluntary space and pricing increases.
There was no change to the discount rate on new claim incurrals which was reduced to 3.75% in the first quarter.
Before moving to Q&amp;A let me comment on a few items of note.
The increase in interest rates will have a positive impact on potential spread compression.
Entering 2013 we had had provided guidance that was the 10-year treasury at 1.5% that we would experience roughly $100 million of negative earnings impact in 2014.
Assuming that the 10-year treasury stays in their current levels I'd estimate that the negative impact on 2014 results has been reduced to approximately $35 million.
We have also taken advantage of the slope in the forward curve by locking in the underlying treasure rate on another $850 million of future reinvestment needs.
Including previous rate locks we now have in place hedges on over $1.8 billion of future investment needs at an average rate that is roughly 110 basis points in excess of today's rates.
The majority of these rate locks are associated with our Guaranteed Universal Life book of business and represent roughly 50% of In-Force GUL cash flows over the next 4 to 5 years.
The Life companies sent $215 million in cash to the holding company during the quarter while statutory capital and RBC remained level for the quarter at $7.5 billion and 485% respectively.
With $250 billion of share buybacks so far in 2013 we are on track to meet or exceed our beginning of the year guidance for $400 million of capital deployment.
With that let me turn the call over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Yaron Kinar of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to maybe dig in a little deeper on the rate sensitivity and sort of thinking about kind of reverse sensitivity namely with the free cash flow coming in higher than your expectations.
I know that on the 10-K you had given some disclosures of roughly $35 million of headwinds that you just talked about in the opening comments as well.
What happens if free cash had come in 50 basis points above your estimates or 100 basis points above your estimates? Have you done any sensitivity work on that? Yaron this is Dennis.
This is sort of what I was driving at we're about 85 basis points lower than our portfolio rate.
So if -- just rough justice if rates -- our new investment yields get up to our portfolio rate that would stop spread compression.
Yaron this is Randy.
I'll just add -- I want to make sure we're comparing apples and apples.
The $35 million you referenced was what we put in the 10-K and it was the impact on 2013 results with rates at 1.5%.
$35 million is my updated estimate for 2014 which is down from $100 million previously.
So we've seen a significant reduction and improvement in potential spread compression because the treasury rates have increased 75 basis points or so.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
But maybe -- so let's say -- I don't know what your forward estimates are but let's say that you're actually 50 basis points below or 100 -- whatever number you want to choose what impact does that have on 2014 numbers? Yes we don't give the impact of x basis points.
But as Dennis mentioned we're roughly 80 85 basis points below our portfolio today which is -- we've come about halfway and it's cut the impact substantially.
So I would say if you got another 75 basis points or 80 basis points in an increase in treasury rates you'd see the negative impact across Lincoln eliminated.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second -- the follow-up question is on the Retirement business.
Clearly mid-to-large market accounts are growing.
Can you give us an update as to what comparative trends you're seeing there and what demand's looking like there? Yes.
Overall I would say that it's a competitive marketplace in the mid-to-large market rebid activities remain high.
We're seeing a little more competition move -- small-market providers move up into the middle market.
Pricing pressures sort of continue to be there.
In the small market again becoming more crowded but we're still getting our fair share.
What I'd say in general is in the small market we're achieving our returns we're getting good growth we're expanding distribution we have new systems.
We have again expanding distribution.
So that's a good long-term market but we need to continue to invest in the expansion of distribution.
Again the shelf space is pretty remarkable the achievements we've made there.
In the mid-to-large market we have this emphasis in the government space as I mentioned that has a good growth characteristics -- a little bit less price sensitive a little harder to get done.
So overall from Lincoln's perspective I continue to see pretty good growth in this business and pretty good ROE development.
A little tougher in the mid-to-large market to get the returns that we want.
But again I think we have a very good position getting better known in the marketplace for all the achievements that we've made over the last 24 months and we're pretty positive on the continued growth of that business.
Our next question is from John Nadel of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you really centered around Annuities.
So if I look at the Annuities segment results this quarter and I strip out those higher prepayments that you mentioned earnings really jumped about -- I don't know about 15% 16% from the average of the past few quarters.
I'd expect I think we would all expect that higher account values stronger markets that the EGPs are higher and that all of sequel even deck amortization should come down a bit.
Maybe you could update us on where you are how much you expect that deck amortization to be lower than it has been previously.
And then within the corridor given the strong market performance I know you're already reasonably close to the upper end where are you know now? John it's Randy.
Let me answer your question this way.
First I'm going to compare second quarter to the second quarter of last year and then I'll talk about the sequential quarter.
If you look year-over-year earnings are up 23% or so and that's pretty much primarily driven just by AUM growth and the growth in the amount of fees we're collecting per dollar of assets.
If you look at average separate accounts year-over-year they're up 19% and when you look at what we're getting from an expense assessment standpoint they're up 6 basis points.
Bring those 2 items together and what you see as expense assessments are up 21% year-over-year and that's pretty much the driver of earnings growth year-over-year.
It all makes sense.
When you look at the sequential quarter it's that along with a couple other items that I'll mention.
So if you look sequentially earnings are up 23% 17% if you strip out the $9 million of strong prepayment fee income.
But first and foremost the driver is strong expense assessment growth.
You see average separate accounts at 5% and you see our average expense rate up another 4 basis points.
You bring those 2 things together you get expense assessment growth of 7% or $27 million and that's the primary driver of the earnings growth.
In addition what you see is that we had very strong results in our broker dealer during the quarter.
I'd attribute that to expense savings from a consolidation we did in our distribution system and the benefit in the retail channel of strong AUM growth so strong results in our broker dealer which I believe are repeatable.
And third as I mentioned is the cum benefit -- the cumulative benefit on deck amortization would have been a period of very strong performance in the equity markets.
I believe when you bring all those things together I'm very comfortable with the annuity earnings in that mid $185 million -- $180 million range.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
That's extraordinary helpful.
Then the other question I just had is just to -- Dennis I think you mentioned in your opening remarks that let's not all get scared that VA sales are -- jumped as much there was some acceleration in front of your product refresh and benefit change; and that the production levels have come down about 25% from the levels in May but we don't really know what the levels were in May.
I'm assuming they were significantly stronger in the front half of the quarter given the May new product launch.
But can you give us a little bit more help there? Yes I can.
First let me remind all of us that Lincoln has been -- has had about 1/5 market share for 5 -- we've been #5 for 5 years.
So we've done an exceptionally good job of getting the business on our terms without reaching for market share and we do that through price changes.
If we see the market -- see our demand getting too strong we'll change prices as we did in May and of course we've done consecutively over the last 24 months.
Sometimes in a quarter it's hard to have that same consistent result in part because competitors are making sharp turns and we for a moment in time might get a little bit more market share from them because they've exited the market or changed their pricing.
So my point is that we've done a great job at this over 5 years.
This is one quarter when things popped up a little bit.
Specifically it popped up because our -- although we made changes to the benefits on our single Living benefits product we didn't -- we waited until June to make it -- the product changes on our joint Life products.
And just perspective typically the joint Life runs about 1/3 of overall sales.
In the second quarter again in part because of competitor actions this jumped up to 54% so drove a lot of that increase.
Again with the sales -- excuse me with the pricing changes we're now back to that product being at its normal 1/3 level.
And just -- you may then ask the question "What did we do?" -- we reduced the payout rates by 50 to 100 basis points for the age 65-74 bands in our joint Life product and we restricted some other benefits.
So that's sort of the big picture.
As we look for the second half of the year we don't expect to see the same volume of sales that we saw in the second quarter.
And if because of competitor reactions or just generally strong demand for this product we see sales inching up above our guidelines we'll take additional actions.
I would like to come back and say that these pricing actions that we're taking are not being taken because the products that we're selling had too low of returns.
All of the business that we sold over the last 6 to 7 months are -- we continue to talk about mid-teens to upper-teens returns.
Even before we made the product changes we were getting that on this business.
So the stuff that we've sold is good profitable business.
It's just that as I said in my opening remarks in total we like to be a business -- we like our long-guaranteed businesses but we'd like to see it sort of become a smaller part of us over time.
So that may be more than you wanted but that's my answer to your question okay? Our next question is from Suneet Kamath of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just have a couple of things.
So first Randy on your comment on the -- I think it was $1.8 billion of treasury locks that you purchased does that have any impact on that -- in the past you've talked about this $500 million potential statutory charge on the UL block at some point kind of 5 years out maybe a little bit longer.
Have we started to chip away at that with some of the actions that you've taken so far including these treasury locks? Suneet I think anytime you see either the interest rates move up or us take actions to lock in higher rates in the future it has a benefit on the margin.
We continue to feel very comfortable with where our reserves are today and the trend and interest rates.
So I feel very comfortable about any pressure on statutory reserves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess on past calls you've kind of given us a walk-through of sort of capital generated what your expectations are inclusive of reserve financing.
And I take it by your comment that you continue to try to beat the $400 million -- roughly $400 million of buybacks that nothing there has really changed? I just wanted to kind of confirm that.
Yes Suneet nothing there has changed.
I'll broaden your question and I'll talk a little bit about statutory in general talk about both what has happened over the last 10 quarters.
So I think it's very important to look at the reality and then talk about some of the trends I see as we look forward.
If you look over in the last 10 quarters you go back to the end of 2010 we were a company with an RBC ratio of 491%.
We were a company with roughly $700 million of capital at the holding company.
In the next 10 quarters we've bought back 1.3 billion of stock at an average price a little below $25.
We've delivered by a couple of hundred million dollars and we've raised our dividend by about 140%.
So we've put roughly $600 million of capital to work.
And where are we at today? We're a company with an RBC ratio of 485%.
We're a company with roughly $700 million of cash in the holding company right where we started.
So the reality is that over the last 10 quarters we have had a very strong capital deployment story.
We continue to have a very strong balance sheet.
Now when you come up to today you look at what we did in the second quarter we had roughly $200 million of statutory earnings which is right in line with my expectations.
When you think about the things -- when you look forward we've got the strong equity markets which are going to continue to help the Annuity earnings.
We've got an easing enough spread compression as rates go up as Dennis talked about we've repriced all of our products.
GUL has fallen from what was 50% to 60% of our sales to 15% of our sales today and that's our most capital-intensive product.
In addition we just repriced that product in the second quarter to make it much more in line with today's reserve regime.
So the trends when I look forward are very positive.
So this year just as said in my script we're very comfortable that we can meet or exceed the $400 million and the trends I think as you go up beyond that are very favorable on statutory.
Research Division</strong> Got it helpful.
Maybe just one last follow-up question either for Randy or for Dennis.
Just thinking about your share repurchase program a year ago plus your stock was at I don't know 60% 70% of book value something like that and the accretion from buybacks was significant.
Now with your stock now getting closer to book value x AOCI how do you and how does the board think about that trade-off between -- in the past you've talked about the implied return on buybacks versus things like acquisitions.
Obviously that implied return will potentially narrow as the stock price goes up.
So how do you think about that trade-off? Well on the lighter side it's certainly more fun to buy our stock back at $20 when it moves to $42 or $43 quickly.
But as the stock approaches the book value the return that we would expect is different from share repurchases.
So I don't think necessarily that means we will do less as we move forward but the return on that needs to be compared to returns on every other use of capital.
But right now I think Randy's guidance is pretty good.
We're going to continue to buy our shares back but the return has to be put into the broader perspective of other uses.
And at the moment we're generating excess capital.
We think continuing to buy our shares even at this price is a good idea.
I still contend that using the metric of price book progression we're still $8 to $11 less than what we should be before we just get normal market appreciation.
So long answer is sure as the price increases and the return on potential purchases goes down we have to look at that but there's nothing I can see right now that would change the plans that Randy's just outlined.
Our next question is from Ryan Krueger of Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> My first question was on life mortality.
Could you just talk about how it was in the quarter relative to your expectations and maybe the actual to expected metric that you've given in the past? Ryan yes.
Life mortality as we noted improved to right in line with our expectations.
Remember the first quarter we talked about an a-to-e of 86%.
If you look at the second quarter of last year that number was 80%.
And when we came into this quarter we're right in line with that 80%.
I think mathematically we came in at 81% but that's right in line with the expected range of mortality.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And then on the change in the sensitivity to low interest rates about $100 million in '14 going down to $35 million was that purely due to the increase in higher interest rates? Or does that also incorporate some of the proactive steps that you've taken so far along the way that impacted some of this guidance that you've given in the past? I think it reflects both of those items.
I'd also note that just factually if you go back to the $100 million guidance at the beginning of the year 2 of those quarters have passed right? So there's 2 quarters of impact that are in our results right now and the $35 million is an estimate relative to what we just reported in the second quarter.
So you've got some that's already in our results so that's some of the impact.
I'd call that $20 million to $25 million.
But the rest of the impact is primarily attributable to the increase in interest rates and then a little bit the proactive things we've done.
LLC</strong> That's it.
And then just one last one just on -- back to the discussion of share repurchase and M&amp;A.
Just wondering if as interest rates have come up if you've seen any change in the M&amp;A type of activity going on behind the scenes? We continue to be -- well you all know we've built Lincoln old Lincoln old JP with thoughtful well-priced well-executed executions.
The people sitting around the table here are the same people who've done those successfully.
We have a strength which if the right circumstances occur we wouldn't be -- we would do a deal.
I would have to say right now though that it's -- the activity is not anywhere in what we would find of interest.
And so at the moment what's in front of us what's out in the marketplace what might be coming down the road there doesn't seem to be too much that would be of interest to us.
And again some of the deals that have been done recently have been done at very low discount rates my view and we're just not going to do that.
Our next question is from Jimmy Bhullar of JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> And so some of my questions were answered but just maybe one on variable annuities.
Dennis like even if the business shrinks a little bit in the third quarter it's still actually growing faster than other parts of your business.
And is there a point at which variable annuities get too large as a percentage of your business mix that you decide to take a little bit more of a drastic action and maybe reduce the growth there? And then what would that point be if there is one? And then secondly on your disability business the margins had steadily improved the last few quarters.
This quarter the loss ratio went up about 1% still decent overall but was wondering whether that's -- you're seeing any deterioration in losses or is that just normal loss in claims trends? Yes.
I think I'll take the first one and give the second one to Randy.
The -- we are modulating our -- moderating our VA sales to a level that I think is maintainable over a fairly long horizon and that's in part because we're growing other parts of the business as well.
I'd also like to make the comment -- we talk about annuities as a business.
Number 1 you've got to pull out fixed and variable dynamics and the earnings impacts over time.
Those 2 things are different.
I think of our total variable annuity -- excuse me of our total annuity earnings about 25% is on the fixed side.
But then even stepping back farther the lines of business you're calling it annuities are a good indicator to me of how we source liabilities in the business.
It reflects sort of the nature of our liabilities but I don't look at the businesses per se as the final criteria on earnings mix.
What I've been focusing you all on is the balance of capital market businesses and mortality and morbidity businesses.
So again back to what I said earlier it's our goal to -- well I didn't say this but I will.
We get about 1/3 from equity charges across all of our business lines.
Of our earnings we get about 1/3 from interest spreads and maybe at this moment about 25% from mortality and morbidity.
The goal is to change that mix more towards mortality and morbidity and then to lower the percentage of sales in the long duration of products.
And I would say that these are midterm goals over the next couple of years and I'm pretty confident of both the market and again the quality of our distribution.
I mean to me it's pretty -- it's a pretty decent business some good examples of the strength of our model.
We talked today about taking Universal Life sales which were running 60% to 70% of total Life sales down to 15% in the space of 24 months and by the way now back at the same levels of sales we were when we started that Pivot.
If you look at what we've done in the VA business we were selling no protective strategy funds.
It went from 0% to 80% because our distribution was able to drive those results.
So as we set our sights on more crisp business mix and product mix objectives I'm pretty confident based on our history that we'll get there.
So this a long story to say that the business mix is going to be moved more towards mortality and morbidity.
I think that mix will improve our share price performance over both economic and capital market cycles and I think we have the wherewithal to do it.
Okay? Research Division</strong> And then on disability? Yes.
On the DI loss ratios we didn't see any trend of deterioration in the quarter.
It was a very strong quarter in the DI business.
I think broader picture in the group business there is some seasonality in the different businesses that moves in opposite ways actually.
You'll see DI incidents trend up a little bit over the course of the year.
On the other hand you'll see dental incidents trend down and you'll see mortality typically improve in the last half of the year.
So you've got these things that work against each other.
But all in very happy with the group results in the quarter and feel good about us moving forward.
Our next question is from Steven Schwartz of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two.
First with regards to the interest rate guidance Randy just so I'm understanding this I had historically thought of the guidance as okay 2013 interest rates that's going to hurt you by $35 million.
And if you think in 2014 that Lincoln's earnings were going to grow 9% to pick a number -- grow them out 9% and then kick off another $65 million so $65 million $35 million equal to $100 million.
Now I'm thinking about it okay so we have the $35 million and I'm not even sure if it's still $35 million for this year.
You didn't say anything about that Randy so if you could touch on that.
And then it's going to be -- if I'm going to grow out earnings for Lincoln 9% -- $35 million less $35 million is zero.
I'm going to keep it at 9%.
Is that the right way to think about this? Well let me try to walk through that.
First off as I mentioned $35 million was a number coming into the year full year impact.
Two quarters are behind us so there's some level of impact from spread compression in our second quarter results.
But as we've been saying all along we've -- there are lots of levers we pull to manage interest spread compression.
So we've been managing expenses.
We've got favorable impacts from the equity market.
So we have this very strong second quarter which includes some level of spread compression impact primarily in the Life business and the Retirement business.
Now as you move forward you'll see a small quarterly impact that will total up to $35 million as I mentioned next year.
Last half of the year it's a relativity small number it's a single-digit number in the second half of the year relative to what we reported in the second quarter.
And it says nothing of the fact that we will continue to do everything we can to manage the bottom line impact of that spread compression.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then one -- I had to go on to something else so I apologize.
If I missed this just let me know and I'll check the transcript.
But I am interested in the Retirement Plan Services particularly the success in the mid-to-large market.
And it wasn't clear to me from Dennis' statement whether that was being driven by government or whether that was being driven by 401(k) or by teachers.
And it's our understanding I think that mid and certainly large is the -- probably the most competitive of the areas in the defined benefit business.
So maybe you can touch on what you're seeing there competition wise? Yes.
In the mid-to-large market progress to date has been made by virtue of 2 things.
One we -- well many things but if I can spike out 2 things.
One we have a new platform.
Before we had the new platform we weren't on any of the consultant lists or we weren't on as many as we needed to be.
So once we got the new platform in place the number of consultants who drive this mid-to-large business started taking notice of Lincoln.
So that's number one.
Number two accessing the consultants requires feet on the street and over the last 18 months we've increased that okay? Our product is as good as anybody's product so -- but now we have access to consultants because of the overall mix of our business.
If I remember correctly some of our business that we've been putting on the books comes from our expertise in the healthcare area which has been a good growth area.
So that sort of brings us up to today.
The government market is a new initiative that we started in the last 90 to -- maybe 6 months.
And the pipeline for new sales whether or not we can close it we'll see has a lot of that business in it.
So going forward we expect an additional push from the government market.
But so far it's come from improving our platform getting in front of more consultants expanding the sales force that calls on the consultants.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is the government market particularly price sensitive Dennis? The -- I guess the toughest place that we're finding to get well north of 10% on new business returns is in this mid-to-large market.
I think the government may be a little bit less price sensitive but it's less so than the 401(k) market.
Our next question is from Seth Weiss of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the Annuities business and the sustainability of sort of that mid-180s run rate that you mentioned Randy.
And just thinking about it from an ROE standpoint if I normalize out the $10 million or so of higher investment income we're still getting to an ROE of about 25% for the quarter which is a pretty big jump quarter-on-quarter year-on-year than what we've seen in the last 4 or 5 quarters.
So I just want to make sure that I'm understanding that that you're comfortable with the sort of the $185 million as a normalized run rate to start from here.
And maybe help us understand where the leverage is that makes for this pretty drastic increase in the ROE looking at that segment.
Sure Seth.
Well first off yes I am comfortable with the mid-180s for all of the reasons that I went through before relative to the second quarter relative -- second quarter of last year relative to the first quarter.
This is driven by good solid AUM growth good solid performance in our broker dealer and the powerful benefit on deck amortization of all of those items.
So yes very comfortable in the mid-180s.
From a return standpoint the 24% 25% ROE that you referenced to which you normalize out the prepayment fees that's just the end result of a business that was very well protected as we came through the last 4 to 5 years.
I think what you see at a lot of companies is companies that weren't protected -- didn't have hedge programs in place coming into the crisis and had to build those hedge programs at costs that are probably twice what we had to spend to put that hedge program in place.
That is the key component which differentiates our returns from other companies.
And there are a couple other companies out there I won't name names who have similar returns.
Those happen to also be the companies that have very powerful robust and deep hedge programs coming into the crisis.
That is the key differentiator.
So yes very comfortable with the 180s very comfortable with the ROEs that we're reporting.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I guess just one follow-up.
I'm thinking about sort of new business returns in -- VA was a business that was in terms of business mix was obviously quite out of vogue just a year ago.
Now with the S&amp;P over 1 700 returns are looking better as you mentioned.
Is -- some of the legacy business run over the last 2 3 years probably has pretty good returns.
Is new business maybe at a slightly lower ROE when we think about kind of the run rate of this going forward? Still maybe above 20% but this 25% is probably not the right level to think of as new business? Is that fair to say? That's sort of difficult to predict.
In my remarks I said we were pricing new business today at unlevered returns of 19%.
If you add leverage to that you still get into the low 20s on the balance sheet.
We have time for one more question.
Our last question is from Eric Berg of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dennis the -- what would appear to be a -- there appears to be a growing interest not a stable interest but a growing interest on the part of the public both institutions -- both individuals and institutions in tax efficiency and in flow fees.
We see this is in the growing share of passive strategies in the asset management business.
Annuities kind of go in the opposite direction from that trend.
They tend to be tax inefficient converting capital gains into ordinary income I believe when the money is distributed.
And the fees on them were dramatically higher in most instances than on the next based alternatives.
Why do you think that this extraordinary growth that we've seen over the last decade and more in guarantees can be sustained given this trend? And relatedly this whole longevity business that you're in and that the whole industry is in right now and is benefiting from why should we think that the life insurance industry will prevail? And I realize in the context of this call you all have only 1 minute or 2 to answer.
It's something that we should probably get into more detail off line.
But even if you want to answer briefly why should we think that the life insurance industry is going to prevail over competitors such as banks and asset managers who are as equally aware of the longevity trends as you life insurers are? Well there is a lot in your question that we probably should take -- we ought to have a 2-hour lunch but let's just come back to what happened during the crisis.
Precrisis in terms of preferences for products does have more certainty.
Prior to the crisis everybody thought that the stock markets would forever increase.
Then we had the crisis.
People lost a lot of money unfortunately as we all know and read.
Individual investors don't have a very good track record of market timing.
So I think the broad statistic on that is individual investors' performance is 2% to 3% less than the overall growth in the S&amp;P 500.
So they're not particularly good in -- at it and again I think it comes from the market's decline.
People get nervous and they sell when they should hold.
But in any event so the individual investor hasn't had a good track record.
He or she has seen the markets collapse and their earnings collapsed likewise.
I remember during the crisis people started returning the 401(k)s as 201(k)s.
And so there's been a pretty dramatic move in the preference of individuals to have some part of their portfolio invested in something that has more certainty.
And I think that's going to continue and that's why we think in the right amounts at the right returns the VA business will continue to grow.
With respect to the life insurance markets some of that -- life insurance products has -- have a variety of uses but the state taxes aren't going away so the state tax declining will remain an objective.
Young families that want to provide protection in the case of the breadwinner dying prematurely are going to continue to buy life insurance.
So I think the fundamental needs of Americans for life insurance are going to continue to be very popular over the next decade.
And again as we've said and as you've seen in our competitors' reports and none of us can predict or see that this is going to continue the way it has but a good growing stock market and slowly rising interest rates has got to be absolutely the best economic climate for the insurance industry on top of the demand that we're talking about.
Okay? Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Sjoreen for closing remarks.
We would just like to thank everybody for participating on this morning's call.
And if we didn't get to your questions we'll be glad to talk to you with a call to my line or to the Investor Relations line.
Again I appreciate your time today and have a good day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for joining Lincoln Financial Group's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Jim Sjoreen.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Shannon and good morning and welcome to Lincoln Financial's third quarter earnings call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about sales and deposits expenses income from operations and liquidity and capital resources are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Form 8-K 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln's website www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to their most comparable GAAP measures.
Presenting on today's call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Dennis.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone.
Overall it was another very good quarter for us with our results driven by an earnings mix benefiting from strong net flows growing equity markets and somewhat higher interest rates.
We ended the quarter with the operating return on equity just under 13%.
And compared to the prior year quarter normalized income from operations was up 13% 18% on a per-share basis and operating revenue growth was up approximately 6%.
These results are being supported by key actions.
First prompted by low interest rates we began actively repricing our products 24 months ago to raise expected new business returns.
With few exceptions our current product offerings are achieving at or above our target returns.
Second equity base margins are benefiting from strong cash flows and rising equity markets.
And we are being rewarded now for our consistent market presence since the crisis.
Third increasing shelf space and distribution partnerships along with the robust solution set have elevated our availability to sell products on our terms.
And finally aggressive share repurchases totaling $1.4 billion since 2009 continue to boost operating earnings and book value per share.
We'll take similar key actions in the near term.
I will touch on many of these as I move through business lines results starting now with Individual Life.
Third quarter sales in Individual Life were up 46% from the prior year.
Sales are at pre-Pivot levels and are driven by a broad solution set offered to the marketplace through powerful distribution.
Pivot products which are more profitable and have a more balanced risk profile were up significantly from last year.
These products now comprise 63% of total life sales.
Also 80% of third quarter production is from products other than guaranteed universal life.
Over the past 24 months we have implemented the major repricing actions required to meet our targeted returns of 12% to 15% on new business.
A new version of MoneyGuard will be rolled out in early 2014 and completes our major individual product repricing actions.
Looking forward product development will continue to reflect a broad portfolio of solutions to meet customer needs diversifying risk and managing to excellent returns.
In our Annuity business it was another outstanding quarter.
Annuity sales of $3.6 billion up 36% from the year-ago quarter driving net flows of $1.2 billion.
Our comp values increased 15% from the year-ago quarter reaching $109 billion.
VA sales in the third quarter were $3.4 billion down from the second quarter as anticipated.
With new business profitability above target of 15% to 18% we have sharpened our focus on risk diversification through benefit changes living benefit risk sharing reinsurance and redirecting wholesalers to focus more on non-guaranteed sales.
One tangible result is that in the quarter 13% of our variable annuity deposits had no living benefit guarantees at all up from 9% in the second quarter.
We expect this trend to continue as we both direct sales efforts and add non-guaranteed product solutions.
We reported last night that we entered into a 50% reinsurance treaty covering new sales of our most popular VA living benefit.
We will seed up to $4 billion of living benefit risk on sales starting in November to Union Hamilton Re a subsidiary of Wells Fargo.
The profitability on the reinsured sales after reinsurance costs remains well above our target returns.
This is a significant transaction for us which underscores our leadership in the VA market and commitment to risk diversification as well as selling high-ROE products on our terms and in the right amounts.
Turning to Group Protection.
Sales growth in both our core and voluntary segments has been supported by the addition of brokers and new products.
Worksite sales a part of voluntary results are being driven by third-party enrollment firms and traditional brokers.
The goals of expanding shelf space and partnered distribution are working in Group as it does in our other business lines.
Reflecting this product progress third quarter sales of $107 million increased 10% from the prior quarter.
In the voluntary segment sales increased by 11%.
While we have been successful in achieving price increases throughout the year we intend to push even harder on both renewal and new business pricing as we close 2013 and move into 2014.
Our improved product offering and distribution strength better positions us to raise prices.
And we remain focused on meaningfully improving our ROEs over the next 24 months.
As we move forward with an eye on achieving stronger renewal rates and new business prices and maintaining consistency we expect to produce solid results that enable us to deliver on our strategy for accelerated profitable growth in the Group business.
Moving to Retirement Plan Services it was another solid quarter as well.
Leading indicators were highlighted by strong total deposits and solid retention resulting in another quarter of positive net flows.
Third quarter deposits $1.9 billion were up 8% from a year ago driven once again by sales momentum in the mid/large market.
Total withdrawals in the quarter were $1.6 billion and are elevated compared to the prior year.
This reflects the lumpiness primarily in the mid/large market.
Net flows of $219 million helped move account values to a record-high $49 billion at September 30 up 14% from a year ago.
Moving forward our ability to grow Retirement business will be fueled by our focus on the fastest-growing markets such as health care and government that are aligned with our high-touch value proposition and have attractive profitability characteristics.
We have made meaningful progress in growing our presence in the mid/large market segment and we expect that to continue.
We foresee similar success in the small case market where we'll be adding wholesalers to support already-expanded shelf space with our strategic partners.
Turning to Distribution it was another excellent quarter for our retail wholesale and worksite sales teams.
They remain instrumental in our ability to drive our core strategies.
Our strong flexible distribution franchise as you see again this quarter has enabled us to maintain a diversified sales mix and attractive return successfully pivot between products and keep pace with increased consumer demand to what we sell.
Through our Wholesale Distribution Lincoln financial distributors we continue to grow the base of producers choosing to sell Lincoln products up 15% from a year ago.
With an eye towards maximizing the value of our model our cross-sell initiative which is focused on influencing producers to sell multiple Lincoln products continues to gain traction increasing the number of producers with multiple product sales by 14%.
Highlighting our retail distribution Lincoln Financial Network we are investing in capabilities that will allow us to attract and retain advisors as well as enhance their productivity.
This group continues to drive sales of Lincoln product leading the way in our Pivot strategy.
Simultaneously investment product revenues and assets under management are delivering solid growth.
Advisors -- advisor recruiting remains strong with 220 advisors choosing to move their practice to Lincoln over the last 12 months.
You've heard me say this today but Distribution is a differentiating strength for Lincoln and we will keep making strategic investments as we look to enhance a footprint that already includes 8 400 advisors affiliated through LFN 580 wholesalers in LFD and some 4 -- 540 representatives within our worksite teams.
Spending a minute on Investment Management with average quarter-over-quarter treasury rates up we've put $2.4 billion of new money to work at a gross yield of 4.65% up more than 80 basis points from our average new money yield in the first half of the year.
The 4.65% investment yield is within 60 basis point of our portfolio's fixed income yield easing the investment spread compression we have then experienced and maintaining our overall portfolio yield at its second quarter level.
We continue to find value in yield-enhancing assets investing $260 million this quarter at a gross yield of 5.8% and select strategies such as direct private placements real estate mezzanine debt and middle-market loans that further supported our new money purchase yields during the quarter.
We also continue to commit capital to our alternatives program both private equity and hedge funds and we expect to achieve commensurate investment income aligned with our fresh commitments over the longer term.
Let me close by saying once again that it was an excellent quarter reported results with good progress made on delivering the strategies that drive the success of our franchise.
Looking ahead our ability to execute those strategies combined with expected tailwinds of rising interest rates strong equity markets and a consumer appetite for certainty position Lincoln well for the future.
With that let me turn things over to Randy.
Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of $367 million or $1.34 per share for the third quarter up 6% from the third quarter of 2012.
There are a lot of things to like about this quarter and before I dive into some of the details I'll point out a few qualitative highlights.
Our key earnings drivers including account balances across all businesses life insurance in-force and group premiums all ended the quarter at record levels.
Our yields on asset purchases are reducing the drag from interest spread compression.
We are earning strong returns on new business sales and the balance sheet with the statutory capital at an all-time high strong RBC and net financial debt nearly at a post-merger low is in great shape.
With those high-level points as a backdrop let's dig a little deeper into the quarter.
Key items of note include excellent top line performance with operating revenue growth of nearly 6% a continued focus on managing expenses with G&amp;A up about 2% on a normalized basis account balances reaching the record level of $197 billion net realized losses related to investments coming in at a very manageable $7 million an 11% increase in book value per share excluding AOCI to $44.37 an estimated RBC ratio of 490% $100 million of share buybacks and return on equity of 12.7% for the quarter.
As noted in the press release we had normalizing adjustments of $28 million or $0.10 per share in the quarter primarily attributable to our annual review of DAC assumptions and expense and tax true-ups.
I'm very pleased that once again when viewed in total the DAC unlocking process had only a modest and positive impact on our results.
It’s also of note that the impact by segment was relatively small.
Both of those points speak directly to the overall quality of the intangibles on our balance sheet and in our income statement.
On an aggregate basis our variable net investment income including alternative investments and prepayment income was close to expected.
Overall another very good quarter.
Turning to segment results and starting with Annuities.
Reported earnings for the quarter came in at a record $198 million while ROE came in at 26%.
The only item of note impacting Annuity earnings for the quarter was a favorable $4 million dividends received deduction impact.
I'll point out that while this is of note for the quarter it is not a normalizing adjustment when viewed from a year-to-date standpoint.
Operating revenues increased 13% from the third quarter of 2012 as positive net flows and strong equity markets drove a 15% increase in average account values that at the end of the quarter reached $109 billion.
The annual review of DAC assumptions created very little impact in the Annuity business this year.
It's encouraging that the changes made to our key policyholder behavior assumptions last year were validated by another year's worth of experience.
Net amount of risk on living and death benefit guarantees decreased and both at end of the quarter are less than 1% of account value.
Hedge performance was again very good with no breakage a strong clean quarter for Annuities.
In Retirement Plan Services we reported earnings of $33 million.
Quarter-over-quarter revenue growth of 6% benefited from an 11% increase in fee income as once again positive net flows and equity markets led to a 14% increase in average account values which at the end of the quarter climbed to $49 billion.
The interest margin for RPS came in at 2.03% as the favorable impact of higher interest rates slowed the rate of spread compression in the Retirement business.
Adjusting for variable investment income I'd estimate that normalized spreads decreased 2 basis points from the second quarter.
As a reminder interest spreads have been decreasing 5 to 6 basis points per quarter prior to the increase in treasury rates.
Return on assets came in at 27 basis points within our long-term range of 25 to 30 basis points.
Turning to our Life Insurance segment.
Earnings of $140 million included $15 million of net favorable items primarily attributable to unlocking.
The unlocking results were not driven by any one item but rather reflected incremental changes to a number of the underlying assumptions.
Life earnings drivers continued to grow at a mid-single-digit pace with average account balances up 7% and life insurance in-force up 4%.
Mortality was somewhat elevated in the quarter negatively impacting earnings by roughly $6 million to $7 million while the prior year quarter was benefited by approximately $9 million of favorable mortality experience.
Reserve financings completed over the last year reduced Life's quarterly earnings by $3 million when compared to the third quarter of 2012.
This factor year-over-year compression and interest margins and the previously mentioned mortality experience offset the underlying growth in Life's earnings drivers.
Group Protection earned $23 million in the third quarter compared to $16 million in the prior year quarter.
The quarter's results included approximately $3 million of net favorable items.
The year-over-year improvement in the nonmedical loss ratio of 73.4% was within our targeted range down from 75.7% in the third quarter of 2012.
Nonmedical premium growth which came in at 10% for the third quarter has been consistent over recent quarters as the combination of expanded distribution and product offerings have expanded our sales footprint.
Looking forward while the overall economic environment will likely continue to interject some level of volatility into Group's results we expect to see continued gradual improvement from the Group business as price increases on both new and renewal business benefit earnings.
Before moving to Q&amp;A let me comment on a few items of note.
During the quarter we issued $350 million of debt to pre-fund the upcoming maturities in early 2014.
As a result our holding company cap position of $1 billion will remain elevated through the end of the year.
Strong statutory results boosted total adjusted capital to $7.7 billion while RBC came in at 490% for the quarter.
As you may be aware New York has announced that they are no longer recognizing the AG 38 solution for pre-2013 business that was reached with the industry late in 2012.
While the situation is fluid based from what we know at this time we do not expect that there will be an impact on our capital deployment guidance.
With $350 million of share repurchases through the third quarter we do expect to exceed our beginning-of-the-year guidance for $400 million of capital deployment.
This will be the third straight year that strong statutory performance has allowed us to exceed our guidance.
This was another strong quarter of financial performance.
Reiterating those high-level points across the businesses: key drivers of earnings are all at record levels higher interest rates are reducing the headwind of spread compression pricing actions across the businesses have us earning strong returns on new business and our balance sheet is in a very strong position.
Those points the points that Dennis made in his comments in a gradually recovering economy have us well positioned to continue that strong performance as we look forward.
With that let me turn the call over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Randy Binner of FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I'm just going to kind of pick up right at the end there where Randy left off.
On kind of the capital plan and buybacks and I appreciate the comments on this New York Department of Finance issue not impacting your capital plan but I guess what I'd say in my opinion and maybe other people's opinion is that you can might be able to do more than $400 million a year.
So I guess the first question is -- I mean there was $100 million in the quarter.
That was a little lower than the first quarter.
Are you holding back a little on what you might be able to do otherwise because of this? And is there any way to quantify what the RBC impact might be from this decision -- this potential decision by the New York regulator? Well let's separate those questions.
We're going to meet with New York in the coming weeks so we'll have more clarity when we -- after we have that meeting.
SO based upon what I know today then what do I know today we're in a real strong overall capital position in total and in New York.
We stopped selling SGUL in New York early this year I think in the first quarter and New York has indicated that any impact would likely be graded in.
So based upon those facts I don't expect any impact to our capital deployment plan.
Now over to the capital deployment that we talk about and which we have been able to exceed over the last few years the numbers are right in line with what was said we've upstreamed to the holding company so far this year roughly $600 million so we're right on track for our overall $800 million that we talk about sending to the holding company.
Our holding company needs remain the same.
Dividends are roughly $125 million interest expense is roughly $275 million which leaves us that $400 million.
We came into the year with a little bit of extra cash.
We're unable to use -- we're using some of that extra cash to take us over the $400 million that we guided to coming into the year.
And when you move up going forward we continue to look -- to leverage our balance sheet to hopefully exceed our guidance.
But coming into any given year we're going to continue to stick with that $400 million of guidance because that is what the numbers indicate coming into any given year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the free cash flow basically it guides the buyback regardless of potential other buffer and a pretty high RBC ratio? I mean...
Yes.
Research Division</strong> But I guess I'd reiterate the question.
I mean is this -- is the event -- I mean is the outcome of the New York situation could it affect RBC by 10% or 20%? I mean does it have the potential to -- it is hard to see the impact from the outside.
Randy we're -- this is Dennis.
We're in the midst of discussions with New York but I don’t think we should front-run those discussions with any more specific discussion about the New York situation.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I just got one final follow-up which is important to this and that's on excess reserve financing and I know that's kind of implicit in the guide for the capital plan.
So is that kind of -- we're getting late in the year here so that's been kind of above or below or in line with the expectations for now and the rest of the year? I think Randy in any given year on average we expect to do a couple hundred million dollars of reserve financings.
And I think when all is said and done for this year we'll meet or exceed that number.
Our next question is from Erik Bass of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just hoping you could talk a little bit more about the structure of the reinsurance transaction.
And is the right way to think about this that it means that on the coinsured piece you're essentially selling a VA without a living benefit guarantee? Erik I think the last comment is right if I heard it correctly we're essentially selling a VA without a living benefit guarantee.
I think that's an accurate characterization.
Let me step back a little bit on this.
I have said company-wide we are gradually changing the mix of the sales of long-dated guaranteed products versus non-guaranteed products.
Several years ago this mix was 50-50.
This year we expect it to be 65% non-guaranteed 35% guaranteed.
So we're moving in the direction strategically want -- we want to do -- we want to go.
With respect to this specific transaction we're very pleased with the economics and it's a good deal for both parties.
To your point about profitability the $8 billion reinsured block will remain well above our target returns and profitability after the cost of the reinsurance.
So I think this is a good transaction.
It's part of a broader strategic plan company-wide as well as inside the Annuity business.
And again inside the Annuity business you heard me talk about increasing the sales of non-guaranteed products in part by directing our sales force that way; also leveraged by our ability to create VA products to have as their benefit to the client more asset-based opportunity and not guaranteed living benefits.
So it's just part if you will of a broader company strategy that we've been articulating.
It's one tool.
I think it's a very very good transaction again for both parties very happy with it and it's part of this longer-term strategy that we have for Lincoln.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just one specific question on the structure.
Do you retain the ability to adjust the living benefits feature? Or are you locked in to the current terms through year-end 2014 so meaning to change either the roll-up rates or the pricing on the feature? Yes I think -- I don’t have the specifics but I think we retained as we do with all products the ability to adjust the underlying characteristics subject to the guarantees.
Research Division</strong> And then just on -- Dennis to your comments about shifting the mix are there any other actions that you're considering to potentially accelerate the mix shift goals that you talked about? Well again if you step back and look at the company in total one very good example of this is in the Life Insurance business where we've gone from long-dated guarantees representing 75% of our sales to now only representing 19% of our sales 19% to 20% so that's a big change.
If you look at the emphasis that we have on growing the Retirement business and you hear about billions of dollars of sales those are all sales without guarantees so that's important.
If you go over to of course the Group business we're accelerating the growth of that business those are all sales without long-dated guarantees.
So company-wide there's quite a few things specifically inside the Annuity business reinsurance products with value proposition for the customer that is not living benefits but is more high asset return inside a tax-deferred wrapper the way we used to sell Variable Annuity products sales incentives it's part of the broader scheme -- or excuse me the broader targets for Lincoln strategic targets and we're going to pull as many levers as we can.
But let me finish by saying that the business that we're selling the VA business with living benefits in this particular marketplace have very very strong returns and we like that business.
As we go forward we want to continue to grow our overall Variable business at a good pace.
But within the overall Variable Annuity business we'd like the VA business with living benefit guarantees to be at a slower pace of growth.
Okay? Research Division</strong> Perfect.
Yes I appreciate your comments.
And just the last thing you didn't mention any in-force actions.
Is that something you would contemplate as well? Or do you really see the mix shift being driven by kind of the actions you're taking on the new business front? We've seen what some other companies have done on that.
We've looked at our own products and our profitability and candidly we can't.
It just doesn't make sense.
We've got very good business on the books and we like the business that's on the books.
It's been well priced all along.
And so I don't think we'll be tampering with contracts that are in place.
Our next question is from Jimmy Bhullar of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Dennis you mentioned like looking at it as selling of VA without guarantees but it's a 50% coinsurance contract so I'm just -- I think the right way would be like selling a benefit with lower -- or selling a contract with less guarantees but not without guarantees right? I answered the question I thought it was with the half that did not...
Research Division</strong> So if you sell a $1 million in a way you've only sold $500 000 with guarantees and $500 000 without that sort of benefit [ph]? Yes right.
But if I'll come back to -- my other point is that if you do look at it in total it does have -- it being the 6 -- the $8 billion block it does have better -- a better risk profile and the ROE on that business is still above our expectations.
Research Division</strong> And as you looked at like -- as you looked at various alternatives and just the reinsurance option that you ended up choosing what's your view on the availability of reinsurance or other solutions for like legacy lost [ph] whether recently written or written around the financial crisis? Yes you've heard me say this before but I think smart money is -- has been moving into this segment because of good risk/reward opportunities and generally as in this case partnering with an experienced manufacturer.
So we've seen different transactions in the past six months it's my expectation that the dynamics stay -- risk/reward dynamics stay the way they are now I would guess some people would be more interested in looking at it.
Research Division</strong> And then on your Retirement business you had pretty strong deposits and that's been a trend recently but your lapses picked up this quarter so wondering if you think that that's more of an aberration or did you see anything that was driving the uptick in lapses whether they were concentrated in the certain market segment or industry.
Yes it goes to my comment about this business is lumpy.
It's lumpy on the new sales side because when you make a sale it's usually pretty big relative to our overall sales.
And then the pattern of how often people reprice business that they have with us now fluctuates from quarter to quarter.
We win some we lose some.
But just in general it's the lumpiness.
I don't see any different pricing characteristics at Lincoln over the past 12 months that would drive sales one way or the other.
Our next question is from Yaron Kinar of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Going back to that reinsurance treaty can you talk a little bit about kind of choosing this alternative over other alternatives that were at your disposal including maybe just shrinking sales altogether? And maybe touch -- if you could also touch upon just the pricing which I have been under the impression that for a very long time reinsurance pricing on non-VA books were just exorbitant so has that pricing come down a bit and make this alternative more palatable? Well let me once again repeat what I said.
The economics both to the reinsurer and to Lincoln are excellent upon this or we wouldn't have done it.
Said another way our understanding of the overall liability and the price at which the transaction traded again is very positive for both parties.
We will continue to look at every opportunity to diversify our risk across the company as well as within the individual Annuity space as I just mentioned and we've made good progress.
We have several tools and we'll use those tools as they come about.
But let me come back to why not stop selling the product.
First of all why stop selling a product that is getting exceptional returns in current market and we just had that validated by some of our outside pricing consultants at this particular period of time as the pricing on the VA is as good as it's been.
So the VA with living benefits is as good as it's been.
So we're going to stay in this marketplace because we're getting good returns.
The volume as I said as well we continue to sell and see the VA business volume grow but the total growth is going to be faster than the VA living benefits.
And finally let me come back to the point about I guess just cutting off sales or in some artificial way reducing sales that is so contrary to the way we run this business.
We just -- we're not going to artificially yank a product or cut off 10 35 [ph] exchanges.
We have to be in the business consistently.
And we think if you're in the business consistently the long-term value with your partners the long-term profitability are going to be better if you're not in the business consistently.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one follow-up.
You talked a little bit about the -- in your financial services the developments with the superintendent [ph] there.
Could you also maybe comment about the June proposal FASB proposal and your thoughts on that? June FASB proposal Randy would you take that please? Yes.
Yaron we commented we -- I assume you're talking about the new approach to accounting for insurance contracts so I premise my response to that.
We provided a response.
In general while we're supportive of FASB's efforts to come to a more converged system across the globe we're not in support of the particular process described in the exposure draft and we had expressed our opinion in our comment letter.
So I believe that the approach they've taken would not be good for investors it would not lead to a better understanding of insurer financial statements.
I think it would be a negative in terms of sort of the metrics that historically have been used to measure performance in the insurance business.
So for all of those reasons we're not in support of the exposure draft as described.
Our next question is from Suneet Kamath of UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-ups on topics you already talked about.
Just on the reinsurance deal just to make sure I understand the philosophy here so we should not expect a change -- or should we expect the change in your appetite for Variable Annuity sales kind of going forward? I know there's been some concern on recent calls that maybe you're gaining a little bit too much share as some companies have sort of pulled back.
Now you have this reinsurance deal.
And should we assume that whatever the sales plan was for 2014 before the deal is going to be roughly the same as what it is now that you have the deal? I think that's a good way to think about it yes.
So yes so we're not going to try to pump sales next year just because we have this plan.
We're going to stick with our sustainable and consistent marketplace approach.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then Dennis you had said in your opening comment that -- when you're talking about product profitability that most of your products are achieving your target returns.
I guess I'm wondering which products do you feel like you have some more work to do.
That was specifically -- the big product change is MoneyGuard in the Life business unit that generates a lot of our premium our sales and so that's one example.
And as I've said the -- it's ready to go -- it will be ready to go in the first quarter.
There may be much smaller products here and there that continue to need updating but what I'm trying to get at is on those products that drive most of our new sales pretty much done with what we have to do.
And I'd also add to that pretty much done with what we have to do based on the yield curve that was in place a couple months ago.
So as I look forward over the next several years if in fact interest rates rise we're going to be beating our pricing expectations.
Quite a different story during the last 2 decades where you had secularly declining interest rates and you're always chasing declining interest rates and having to reprice.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then one other one on the new money investment rate the 4.65%.
I guess my question is how much more capacity do you have to pursue these yield-enhancing investments? In other words how sustainable do you think that 4.65% is as we think about the next several quarters? Yes I think 4.65% in part had a little bit spike of up to 2.80% 2.90% 3% in the 10 year in it.
So I think in the fourth quarter we might be down 10 or 15 basis points off of that level.
So that's the dynamic of what's the sort of underlying interest rate that you start with.
There was no significant mix difference in the third quarter than what we'd expect in the fourth quarter coming from those higher earning investments.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last one on this New York issue.
I thought in your press release you had cited the RBC ratio of Lincoln Life &amp; Annuity Company of New York as opposed to LNL.
I guess I'm just trying to think about -- as we think about this issue should we be considering whatever ends up happening impacting just the New York sub or impacting potentially LNL as well as well as the other subsidiaries? Yes all indications are that this is just the New York sub.
And we pointed that out because I think at the end of the day the New York sub will be able to handle any impact.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I understood you.
I guess there's an earlier question about RBC impact and it sounds like what you're saying is you're fine in terms of the New York sub and we don’t need to worry about LNL? Yes I do not anticipate a major impact on the overall corporation's RBC.
Remember we ended the quarter at 490% so we're in a very strong position.
New York represents roughly 10% of the overall capital of the organization.
So the vast majority of our capital sits in LNL and so I wouldn't anticipate a major impact on the total capital position of the company.
But clearly the New York needs a little more capital that takes -- New York is included in the 490% just to be clear.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But I think you stated the RBC of New York was pretty high right? Yes was in the 5s high 5s.
Our next question is from the Mark Finkelstein of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to the VA question or the VA reinsurance transaction maybe just a very specific transaction and how it will function.
I mean typically with the coinsurance agreement you kind of split the economics at the set percentage.
So my question is this are you essentially going to be giving to Wells Fargo the fee rider that you charge for the living benefit guarantee? Is it going to be more than that? Is it going to be less than that? How should we think about that? Well again I appreciate all the questions around this but as a practical matter we're not going to discuss the specifics of the pricing for a couple of different reasons: one competitive why would we want to share that with our competitors; two in negotiations with a single entity we're just not going to get into details about the give and take or who gets what and how.
I think we're just going to stay with -- or I don't think we're going to stay with the point that I've made a couple of times the economics were good for both parties and we certainly analyze this from the perspective of getting the right economics for the risk that we were being relieved of.
And that in total after we pay the cost of the reinsurance transaction our ROEs are going to be above our target ROEs for VA business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right well thought I would try.
No harm in trying.
Research Division</strong> Exactly.
I guess Randy can you just talk about the assumption study a little bit? You didn't do anything -- and I'm thinking more on the VA side here.
You didn't do anything on the equity you didn't -- it doesn't sound like you did much on the lapse.
Can you just talk about maybe those 2 areas and what led you to the decision to kind of keep things as they were? Sure Mark.
I'll remind you that in 2012 we made major changes to lapse assumptions in the Annuity business.
And as I noted a year's worth of experience validated everything we did both to lapses and utilization.
So there was no major need inside of those products the Annuity products for any major impacts to the lapse assumption.
If you think about the Life business and across the company we made the big change to the J curve the long-term earned rate assumption in the other years.
So that major impact was behind us and rates are up some since then.
So we made a lot of the major changes in previous years.
So came into this year in a -- with an expectation that we're in good shape we won't have major impacts.
Specifically to the long-term earned rate assumption we made some small tweaks to specifically the bond return component of the long-term earned rate assumption.
I think I noted in previous quarters that our average long-term assumption was 8.6%.
The changes we made brought that down to 8.4% so we did make some small changes.
I would also note that we did not unlock our corridor so when you think about what is right now an immediate 14% drop in returns embedded in our DAC models you have an overall lifetime effective return inside our DAC models right now in the mid-7s.
That is a rate that is easily supportable along with the 8.4% return assumption by the way by any set of long-term data that you can look at.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe if I can just sneak one more in thinking about free cash flow a little bit and we continue to talk about $400 million is how we start a year.
And I mean you're kind of pivoting to lower capital intensity products so you are growing a bit I agree on that.
But you also have said that the free cash flow should grow with earnings.
And earnings I think you've grown better than most people are expecting.
Why do we tend to go back to the $400 million as a starting point? Why shouldn't that number be higher? Well I think if you think about the last -- let's talk about the last few years which is when we've been talking about $400 million of free cash flow.
You've got a lot of another -- a lot of other anomalous items that have come into the equation.
You've got an AG 38 solution that's come in.
So you had a number of these items that have come along which have impacted the free cash flow numbers and I think that's why we really have been steady over the last few years.
Looking forward just as you said and I'll reiterate I expect that free cash flow will grow with the earnings of the organization and it will grow as we shift our mix of business to lower capital-intensive products.
So that's in the future and we'll talk about those items when we get closer to that future.
You know we don't give guidance.
So we don't give guidance.
These things happen over time.
They don't happen immediately.
But I fully expect that free cash flow will grow as we look forward.
Our next question comes from Chris Giovanni of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to follow up again on the reinsurance deal and I wanted to see if you can talk a little bit about some of the economics.
And certainly there are a lot of strategic decisions for doing this.
But if you try to compare maybe the differential the comparison of the ROEs between pre-reinsurance deal versus the post-reinsurance deal what would the differential on the ROEs be? Chris if we price the block if we look at the block before reinsurance and then after insurance the change in the ROE is 1% or 2%.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then we haven't really seen these really since the financial crisis.
And certainly I think a lot of your competitors are having to address kind of this deal today.
But wondering was it just this one reinsurer? Were there other reinsurers that were willing to share the risk with you? Do you think this is something unique to Lincoln where the metrics that you guys clearly have shown is that your business is more profitable than some of your peers? What do you think just reinsurers in general are looking to get more involved in new business risk? It's difficult to say and this isn't going to be specifically responsive.
We'd continue to see -- and I said it earlier but we'd continue to see smart money coming in to the Annuity space.
My view is in terms of just the balance of trade if you will between the reinsurer and us was as good as anything that's been done in the marketplace for the last -- well since before the crisis.
And I think that's in part -- it's in part related to 2 things.
The math for VA business today in terms of generating returns is so much better than it's been over the last 3 or 4 years.
That's one dimension of it.
And the second dimension is to the point that you're making we do have one of the best track records in the industry for developing profitable business.
We have one of the best track records for hedging this business.
And so it's a combination of -- again at this moment in time good economics for everybody people are looking for a little bit of extra return on their businesses and doing it with a really strong manufacturer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I totally agree.
And then just one maybe for Randy.
Wanted to see if you could talk to a little bit about maybe what the spread is of the living benefit rider fees that you're charging today versus the cost to hedge.
So where does that spread stand today versus maybe 12 18 months ago before the capital market movements that we've seen and kind of the tighter risk parameters that you've been putting on the products? Chris yes it bounces around right? It bounces around day to day with the capital markets.
But on average I'd say you're running in the 80% range right now.
So we charge 100 to 110 basis points and the cost of hedging is roughly 80% of that.
Research Division</strong> And then where would that have been 12 or 18 months ago? Would it have been similar? You've just been adjusting the fees to keep that 80% ratio constant? Yes so we've been adjusting the benefit and the fees over time.
There were -- there have been periods of time where the fees had been lower than the cost of hedging.
There had been times when the fees had been quite a bit above the cost of hedging.
But I think with the adjustments we've been able to make we've been able to keep that sort of 80% ratio pretty consistently over time whether you're talking about today a year ago or 5 years ago.
Our next question is from Tom Gallagher of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question is just on the business mix.
And how are you now? And Randy I know you mentioned you're going to surpass the $400 million of buybacks for this year.
But as we think about going forward how are you now thinking about the balance of M&amp;A versus share repurchases especially considering a desire to rebalance the business mix in some way? Tom maybe I'll take that question.
And again this may not be specific but I'll start with saying that we build the business on the basis of organic plans.
We don't look to acquisitions as a sort of ongoing opportunity to do things.
So our organic business plans are directed in getting us to the targets that we're talking about.
On the sales mix we'll get there faster organically than we would be able to change the earnings mix to a higher mortality chain -- a higher mortality component.
That's just the math.
Just because it's -- math is math right now.
So we're going to continue to grind away on an organic strategy to accomplish what we want.
If a deal comes along that helps us accelerate our organic plans we will of course look at it.
And as you look at organic -- excuse me as you look at M&amp;A all the time the litmus test is given the risk of what you're doing and given the return that you're going to get on it how does that compare to the return you're going to get by buying your shares back? Obviously with the share price moving up a little bit the debate there gets a little closer.
But we'll continue with that general strategy and that general -- but generally that's the way we look at things.
Let me just add over the last 12 quarters we've spent $1.4 billion on share buybacks at an average price of $25 and just a little over $25.50.
The analysis when you -- based upon what we do when you sat down and looked at it whether or not industry share buybacks is a slam dunk right I mean the expected return based upon our analysis was just world class.
And that made the rate of return you needed to use in -- as part of any M&amp;A analysis pretty high as the hurdle for other uses of capital is pretty high.
That's obviously changed a little bit but I still think that share buybacks where we are today trading right above book represent a pretty good place to put capital.
And we've done that and we will continue to do that.
I'd also add to that that you're not going to do acquisitions out of free cash flow.
And so the guidance around stock buybacks comes from this holding company free cash flow.
In any one year we might have to take a harder look at that but the ongoing free cash flow is more about dividend levels and stock buybacks than it is about M&amp;A.
Research Division</strong> Now that's helpful from -- to hear both of your perspectives on that.
I guess the follow-up is to what extent is -- I get the comparison between buybacks and M&amp;A.
And Randy I hear you certainly 1 to 2 years ago there was a pretty obvious disparity there.
But to what extent are you also factoring in enterprise risk management from the sense that the volatility and -- if things go bad in the market and what better balance in your business would do? Because I think the analysis of IRR looking at the ROE comparison doesn't factor in volatility and enterprise risk.
So I don't know if that's something that you've contemplated and how that would weigh in.
Yes let me differentiate it a little bit.
I think what you're talking about I would describe more as economic capital.
Capital needs when you look at various stress tests.
Obviously a key component of what we do as an organization when we think about our overall capital needs you see it embedded when we talk about a long-term RBC requirement of 40%.
You'd hear it when we talk about drawing that RBC down over time 10 to 15 points a year.
So stress testing driving capital requirements looking at details key part of how we run the business today.
The broader topic of enterprise risk management is embedded in everything that we do.
It's embedded in what Dennis talked about the strategy of shifting to a mix of business that has a lower percentage of long-term guarantees.
It's embedded in the product design that Mark and Chuck and their teams do on a daily basis.
Enterprise risk management is a very broad topic that is practiced everyday in almost everything that we do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just sneak in one last question just a technical one.
Randy I think you had said the -- for the Variable Annuity separate accounts the new long-term return assumption is 8.4%? Yes on average 8.4%.
Research Division</strong> On average.
But if you consider the cushion embedded in -- on the equity side I think that would drop all the way down to 7.5%? Yes right around 7.5%.
Research Division</strong> So my question is several peers have made that adjustment and then corrected -- taken the what -- in your case it would be 8.4% down to 7.5%.
And in your case if you did that it would -- there would be a neutral impact right? It would -- I guess the backward-looking gains would be offset by lower prospective looking assumptions.
So why not just make that adjustment and have the 7.5% going forward? The only thing I can think and maybe this isn't right is that if you did make that adjustment I think there would be a requirement to amortize more DAC going forward because of the way the accounting model works for future DAC amortization.
But I just wanted to ask you that question.
Sure.
Well first off I don't know the net impact on amortization.
I tend to think that the net impact on amortization wouldn't be that large one way or the other.
Now as to the long-term earned rate assumption and the short-term corridor I discriminate between those and differentiate between those 2 items.
The long-term return expectation of 8.4% is linked to our view of what the market should support going forward over an extended period of time.
And when determining what that number should be we spend a lot of time looking at history a lot of time looking at expectations.
And I think in our analysis based upon really any long-term view of history 8.4% is a very supportable long-term assumption.
Now in terms of the corridor that's sort of the near-term expectation of the marketplace and that's why you have that down 14%.
So I differentiate between the 2 I think the 8.4% long-term is very supportable based upon history.
I think the corridor we're well inside the corridor so there really isn't a reason to unlock that.
And I don't believe -- I haven't once again analyzed the numbers in any depth but I don't see -- I don’t believe you see a big difference in amortization coming out of either approach.
Our last question is from Seth Weiss of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the broader competitive environment of variable annuities and you've spoken several times about the very positive economics of the annuity space right now and I think we'd clearly see that in terms of rider pricing trending up while features have tended to move less generous.
And I would say within the last year or so part of that would probably be from capacity being removed from the system.
If we look at smart money now coming in in terms of this reinsurance agreement as one example do you see any risk of this favorable competitive dynamic perhaps shifting in the future? It's hard to predict what market participants will do but the trend over the last several years has been to more risk sharing of the risks between the customer and the manufacturer.
The trends have been to less rich benefits in total.
The people who were aggressive have left the marketplace.
So I think there is going to be a pretty decent balance as we go forward.
So I'm pretty optimistic about there being a good balance -- competitive balance.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Jim Sjoreen for closing remarks.
Well thank you everybody for joining us this morning.
I know we didn't get through all the questions so we're going to be available to take those questions.
And you can either give me a call or call our 800 line in Investor Relations at 237-2920 or e-mail your questions on our website.
So again thank you for your participation today and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thanks for joining Lincoln Financial Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Jim Sjoreen.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good morning and welcome to Lincoln Financial's Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about sales deposits expenses and income from ops are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and last year's 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln's website www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to their most comparable GAAP measures.
Presenting on today's call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis.
Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
Lincoln had a very good year with the majority of our business segments performing well operating earnings per share reached a record level up 13% for the full year.
Assets under management also reached a record level ending the year at $207 billion.
Operating return on equity for the full year was 12%.
And book value per share was up 10%.
All strong results driven by numerous initiatives and strategies implemented throughout the year.
Touching on a few.
We continued to take aggressive pricing actions across our businesses that positioned us for increased profitability.
We effectively tapped distribution to drive our strategies to pivot toward more profitable products and diversify risk.
We maintained a best in class risk management capability.
And lastly we repurchased almost $450 million in shares while ending the year with a very strong balance sheet including a record statutory capital amount and RBC at 500%.
The one piece of the year which we were disappointed was our Group Protection earnings.
We have already taken steps to get earnings back on track.
Randy and I will share more details about this in a few moments.
So let's turn to the Life business.
Individual Life had an impressive year with a 15% increase in sales.
We made significant pricing improvements on many of our products and have a diverse profitable solution set.
Full year sales of our Pivot portfolio which includes Indexed Universal Life Variable Universal Life Term and flexible premium MoneyGuard increased by 51% over the prior year.
This quarter a new repriced MoneyGuard product will be introduced which rounds out the pricing actions necessary to address the impact of low interest rates.
Additionally we will update our VUL product a move that will boost already strong returns while maintaining competitiveness.
With these changes the pricing on our entire Life product portfolio will be at the 12% to 15% return level a higher level of return than in recent years and toward the top end of our expectations.
Looking forward the depth and breadth of our distribution relationships coupled with our proven ability to rapidly adapt to changing conditions will enable us to keep offering smart solutions and capitalize on market opportunities.
Individual Annuities.
Our Individual Annuity business also had a very good year with strong sales net flows and an effective hedge program adding to the drivers of strong equity markets and rising interest rates.
We continue to grow the annuity business on our terms including making the adjustments necessary to manage living benefit sales to our objectives.
In the fourth quarter nonguaranteed living benefit sales were 18% of total VA sales up from 13% in the third quarter due entirely to shifting our wholesaler focus toward nonguaranteed products.
Including the impact on sales covered by the reinsurance treaty with Union Hamilton Re nonguaranteed products comprised 32% of total VA sales in the quarter.
32% is approximately our long-term target mix.
We expect product design and distribution to drive our sales mix goals over time.
To help achieve this later this year we'll introduce an accumulation-based VA product with an expanded fund lineup specifically designed to grow our nonguaranteed sales.
So annuity deposits of $14.8 billion for the full year drove positive net flows of $5 billion total account values of $115 billion were up 19% from a year ago.
Let me turn to Group Protection.
Weak earnings in the fourth quarter were primarily the result of poor long-term disability loss ratios.
These results coupled with poor mortality experienced earlier in the year reinforced our need to continue to take aggressive pricing actions aimed primarily at our employer paid life and disability business.
We began taking more aggressive actions in mid-2013.
Put this in perspective.
We have about $1 billion of the earned premium associated with the employer paid business.
More than 1/2 of this will be repriced by this time next year and the majority in the following 12 months.
In addition to pricing changes I've just mentioned we continue to have success driving our strategy to grow the employee paid segments both voluntary and worksite.
Through our investments in distribution and by offering a diverse product portfolio pivoting toward these product lines which carry better margins is another important ingredient in improving the earnings profile of this business.
Speaking to that change in mix fourth quarter sales were up 30% from the same period last year and full year sales were up 18% over 2012.
The increase driven entirely in employee paid sales.
These increases elevated employee paid sales to almost 1/2 of the total 2013 sales and we expect that number to grow to more than 1/2 in 2014 a promising outlook given the profitability profile of the business.
Conversely sales in the employer paid space were flat year-over-year and are expected to decline in 2014.
We are confident that our powerful distribution system better priced employer paid products and a diverse set of employee-paid solutions will lead to restored margins.
Although earnings for the year were disappointing the momentum from the actions we are already taking have us headed in the right direction.
Retirement Plan Services.
The business performed well and we are pleased with our ongoing progress in the space.
Total deposits of $6.8 billion in 2013 were up 6% from the prior year driven by significant new sales in our mid/large market and by the successful launch of several strategic small market initiatives including our expanded partnership with Bank of America Merrill Lynch and a broadened product portfolio that allowed us to reach clients at the larger end of the small market.
Account balances ended the year at a record high over $51 billion an increase of 17% due to a combination of new sales increased employee contributions continued strong client retention and favorable equity market performance.
We did experience negative outflows in the fourth quarter due to the natural ebbs and flows of the mid/large case market.
That being said we have been more successful in keeping profitable business on our books as evidenced by planned sponsor termination rates in 2013 in our small and mid to large markets improving by more than 10%.
As a result we saw nearly $800 million of positive net flows for the year.
Looking ahead we are optimistic about growth prospects in our Retirement business.
Areas where we will focus our attention include expanding our distribution force in the small market where we look to grow our wholesaler count by 40% in 2014 continuing to build out strategic partnerships among consultants; wire houses and independent planning firms maintaining our push in the fast-growing mid/large market and healthcare markets; and achieving operational efficiencies through platform transformation and technology enhancements.
Turning to Distribution.
Our retail wholesale and worksite teams continue to deliver outstanding results and help drive our overall success.
The depth and breadth of our distribution franchise remains a core industry advantage for us successfully driving the pivot to more profitable products and segments that I mentioned earlier.
We have reached an all-time record number of third-party advisers and agents choosing to sell Lincoln products now 66 000 up 11% from 2012.
Not only did our active base expand but productivity also climbed.
In 2013 the number of repeat producers grew 21% while the number of producers cross-selling more than 1 product grew 15%.
Looking ahead with all of our products at attractive return levels and our focus on shifting and diversifying the mix we'll continue to tap into the power of distribution by expanding wholesalers in RPS Life MoneyGuard and Annuities to advance our goals and deliver strong results.
Retail distribution through Lincoln Financial Network continues to be a leading driver of our strategy.
We are making investments in LFN aimed at strengthening our value proposition for independent advisers and their clients.
An example is the recently announced relationship with National Financial a fidelity investments company as our clearing platform provider.
Through this arrangement we'll marry the technology strength of Fidelity with the proven distribution strength of Lincoln Financial Network.
And finally in Investment Management.
Our overall portfolio is well diversified and of high-quality with an average credit rating of A minus.
Year-over-year our below investment-grade exposure decreased by approximately 1% primarily due to a favorable credit migration and maturities.
This gives us more flexibility to continue to broaden our investment strategies.
With respect to new money.
Our average yield in 2013 was 4.2%.
In the fourth quarter we invested new money at 4.7%.
And our yield-enhancing fixed income strategies contributed close to 20 basis points of this yield.
Our new money rate last month was approximately 15 basis points below the fourth quarter.
At these levels we are investing new money well above our average 2013 new money yield allowing for continued easing of investment spread compression.
So let me close my comments today by saying once again that we had an exceptionally good year.
Our overall performance and the action plans position us well for 2014 and beyond.
Areas where we will focus our intention include: Increasing the diversification of our product sales to roughly 70% nonguaranteed and 30% guaranteed this is across all product lines; increasing our margins over time coming from mortality and morbidity; returning margins on our Group Protection business to historical levels that will drive improved earnings; maintaining active capital management and best in-class risk management capabilities.
And finally further distribution expansion and productivity improvements.
With that I'll turn it over to Randy.
Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of $382 million or $1.40 per share for the fourth quarter up 27% from 2012.
The quarter's excellent results capped off a strong year which saw full year EPS of $5.03 up 13% from the previous year.
Of note $5.03 represents the highest level of EPS that we have ever recorded for a year.
Looking at key performance metrics.
We had strong top line performance with operating revenue up 7.8% for the quarter and 5.8% for the full year driven by drivers such as account values that ended the year at record levels strong equity markets and interest rates that increased steadily over the year.
Across the company a continued focus on managing expenses led to G&amp;A net of capitalized expenses being essentially flat for the year.
We saw a 10% increase in book value per share excluding AOCI to $45.23 while statutory capital reached an all-time high of $8 billion with RBC coming at 500%.
And last but not least return on equity came in at 13% for the quarter and 12.1% for the full year with both figures up over the comparable prior period.
As noted in the press release we had normalizing items of $25 million or $0.09 per share in the quarter primarily related to some reserve true ups and tax items.
I will discuss the normalizing items in more detail during the business line comments.
A couple of other items of note during the quarter.
Alternative and prepayment-related investment income came in somewhat above our expectations during the quarter with the positive benefit offset by G&amp;A that was above a normalized level.
G&amp;A was elevated due to incentive comp accruals deferred comp-related expense that was driven by the increase in the share price during the quarter and the seasonality that we typically see in G&amp;A during the fourth quarter.
Finally good underwriting results in the Individual Business were offset by poor experience in the Group business.
I will discuss the group results in more detail in a bit.
Net income results for the quarter and full year were fairly clean and straightforward.
Realized losses were largely unchanged from the prior periods and head results were good with little breakage free to the quarter or year.
Turning to segment results and starting with Annuities.
Reported earnings for the quarter were $199 million a 23% increase over last year.
The only item of note impacting Annuity earnings for the quarter was an unfavorable $3 million dividend received deduction impact as we trued up the DRD as the final year-end data came in.
Operating revenues increased 16% from the fourth quarter of 2012 as positive net flows and strong equity markets drove an 18% increase in average account values that at the end of the quarter reached a record $115 billion.
Returns in the Annuity business continue to be very strong with ROE coming in at 26% for the quarter and 25% for the year and are indicative of the quality of the book.
With our consistently sound product design and a relentless approach to risk management 2013 was a truly great year for the Annuity business.
In Retirement Plan Services we reported earnings of $34 million.
Quarter-over-quarter revenue growth of 5% benefited from an 11% increase in fee income as positive net flows for the full year and strong equity market returns led to a 16% increase in average account values which at the end of the quarter climbed to a record level of $52 billion.
The pressure on interest margins from low rates has served to mute the earnings growth in this business with normalized spreads coming in 24 basis points lower for the year and 3 basis points from the third quarter.
This is consistent with prior guidance and looking forward with rates at the current level we expect spreads to climb by 10 to 15 basis points on an annual basis in the Retirement business.
Return on assets for the quarter came in at 27 basis points within our long-term range of 25 to 30 basis points.
Overall 2013 was an excellent year for the Retirement business.
Earnings grew 9% over 2012 return on equity was strong at 14.7% and return on assets of 30 basis points came in at the upper end of our targeted range.
The Life Insurance segment reported its strongest earnings quarter of the year with $157 million or $146 million after normalizing for a reserve adjustment.
Earnings drivers remained steady for the quarter and year with average account balances up 7% and Life Insurance In-Force up 4%.
As noted earlier Life had good mortality experience for the quarter.
The quarter's experience which added approximately $9 million to the quarter brought our full year mortality back in line with long-term expectations a very nice way to end another strong year of operating performance for the Life Insurance business.
The Group Protection segment results fell short of expectations earning $11 million in the fourth quarter and $71 million for the year.
The quarter's results included $8 million of favorable impact primarily from a reserve true up associated with the accounting for LTD overpayment recoveries offset by an accrual for unclaimed property.
Earnings were negatively impacted by bad results in the LTD business.
I'd estimate the negative impact on the quarter at $12 million after tax with the negative impact coming from 3 main sources with roughly equal weight.
Incidents which at 4.23 for the quarter came in above the full year level of 4.06.
We do typically experience seasonally high incidence in the fourth quarter but 4.23 is somewhat above what we expected.
Claim size that ran above our recent experience and recoveries that came in below recent periods.
In understanding the quarter's bad experience it may be helpful to dissect our Group business into its component parts.
We had $1.95 billion of nonmedical earned premium in 2013.
That premium is spread across the business in the following way: 55% or $1.1 billion is employer paid life and disability; 35% or $700 million is employee paid business; while 10% is employer paid dental.
As we have analyzed the year's experience the negative results can be attributed to our employer paid life and disability book of business.
As Dennis mentioned a significant portion of this book will be repriced by January of 2015.
Let me explain when that repricing will appear in our revenues.
Approximately $300 million of 2014 earned premiums with an additional $500 million of 2015 earned premiums with the business nearly fully repriced by the end of 2016.
As we entered 2013 I had predicted that we would earn $80 million to $90 million for the year.
We actually came in at $71 million for the year so while I'd estimate that we are 6 months or so behind where we thought we would be as we entered the year we do continue the process of rebuilding the profitability of the employer paid business to what it should be and continuing the shift in business mix to a more employee paid book of business.
As we see things today and assuming that loss ratio has returned to the 74% range that we experienced in the first 3 quarters of 2013 we expect to see earnings in the $60 million to $80 million range in 2014.
Before moving to Q&amp;A let me comment on some of the highlights of 2013 and what you should expect in 2014.
2013 was another great year from a capital generation and capital deployment standpoint.
Strong statutory performance allowed us to upstream over $800 million to the holding company which led us to deploy nearly $700 million in 2013 including $450 million in share buybacks $128 million in shareholder dividends and $100 million in net debt reduction; and grow statutory surplus by $350 million to the previously mentioned record level of $8 billion.
Speaking to the consistency of our statutory performance over the last 3 years we have now upstreamed $2.7 billion to the holding company deployed $2.2 billion with $1.5 billion of that going into share buybacks and growing statutory surplus by nearly $900 million.
As we look to 2014 I would expect similar capital deployment to what we accomplished in 2013.
Additionally we increased our shareholder dividend by 33% in the fourth quarter and ended the year with $1.2 billion of cash to the holding company which includes $500 million as a pre-funding of first quarter debt maturities.
Taken altogether 2013 was another year of excellent financial performance record earnings earnings drivers that end the year at record levels and a record level of statutory capital all speak to the strength of both past results and future expectations.
With that let me turn the call over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dennis first question for you.
In the Annuity space we've seen a number of kind of the traditional fixed writers see some nice growth here in the recent quarters but really haven't seen any momentum in that product from you guys.
So is it something with that product that you kind of don't like currently or is it just you're seeing better opportunities still in the VA space? Chris we will -- the fixed annuity business has always been one of trying to get the right returns on it.
And we can turn that business -- we can increase our sales on that pretty quickly given the distribution system that we have.
So as interest rates rise and particularly the yield curve steepens that gives you a better opportunity to get better returns.
So I would say in answer to your question we can do a lot more volume if the interest rate environment is helpful to us getting returns in the 11% 12% 13% range.
A lot of the strength in fixed and indexed annuities that you see is a little bit in the segment of the market that we don't play in which is the high commission high surrender and long surrender charge business.
We've shied away from that over the years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'll ask one more then I'll get in the queue.
I guess maybe more a question for Ellen -- but I'll ask Randy perspectives around kind of the investment portfolio risk management related to the new derivative requirements that start to come on board in terms of what asset classes can and can't be posted which I think points to probably more liquidity that the industry may need to hold over time.
So just some perspective in terms of how you guys are thinking about this risk and kind of addressing it within the investment portfolio? Yes.
Chris we've seen very little impact and expect very little impact on how we operate our business going forward.
In fact I'd say no impact on how we operate our business going forward.
There were some new collateral posting requirements with Dodd-Frank and such and those have added up to a big nothing so far for us.
So I don't anticipate a big change in the amount of collateral we're going to be posting nor do I expect a change in the type of derivatives we use either in the hedge program nor the small amount we may use in the day-to-day operations of the company.
Research Division</strong> And is that because the existing contracts are grandfathered in or even when new positions start to roll you still would expect kind of no impact? Anything new you put on there are new collateral posting requirements.
Just factually just haven't added up too much not anything that's changed the way we operate the liquidity of the organization.
In fact actually the amount of additional post that we had at the end I think was $2 million to be specific.
So the numbers are not going to change.
The results of the organization are really the way we operate the liquidity profile of the organization.
Our next question comes from Randy Binner with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a couple on the Group segment.
Can you quantify the degree of these price increases in the employer paid book and is this the first time in the last couple of years or that you've increased pricing here? Can you give us a sense of when the last time was that pricing was applied to this book? Randy let me take that.
Let me put in perspective that we've repriced above -- renewals about 50% of what you do in renewals occurs in the first couple of months of the year.
So if you go back to the early part of 2013 the first couple of quarters we were kind of in the mid-lower single digits with our renewal increases but with increases.
As the year progressed we moved above middle single digits to a little bit higher on our repricing but again a lesser amount of the current In-Force premium.
And as we look into 2014 for the whole year we are starting off in the mid to higher range and may even get up to the high single-digit range mid to high single-digit range.
Research Division</strong> And I guess the follow-up there is -- and then thanks for those comments.
But the follow-up is I guess we watched a bunch of companies in group benefit ratios just broadly speaking I know this is isolated to a particular type of DI but I'd say group benefit ratios broadly speaking are maybe 200 basis points better over the last year.
So I guess frankly it feels a little late in the cycle to have this issue and so I guess I'd be interested in your response to that because it's kind of late in the cycle relative to unemployment drag.
What do you think is causing this to crop up now? You mean the higher incidence on LTD? Research Division</strong> Yes.
There isn't anything in our underwriting or in our analysis of it the incidence increase that we can attribute to any particular case size or industry type.
And it's popped up -- it could very well pop down but we're not waiting for it to pop down.
In the group business this happens all the time.
You have trend lines that have volatility around them and you have to make a decision at some point.
Is the volatility around the trend line raising the trend line permanently and do you need to reprice or is it something that's going to come back? And we've just decided that we're going to increase prices because of where we saw ourselves with earnings in the last 2 quarters or the last couple of quarters.
Our next question comes from Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just want to start with the Life Insurance business.
I think as Randy mentioned earlier fourth quarter is one of the strongest earnings quarters and represented I think a bounce back from previously unfavorable mortality.
So I guess my question is should we think about the run rate going forward as similar to what we saw in the fourth quarter? Or are you expecting maybe mortality might revert a little bit back to what we saw earlier in the year? Suneet so we made $157 million in the quarter as I mentioned we had an $11 million reserve true ups so that puts you down to the $146 million.
Additionally I mentioned that mortality added roughly $9 million to the quarter.
We don't normalize it out because mortality is something that is going to move around.
I mean just like morbidity in the group space it's going to move around.
I mean morbidity went against us this quarter.
So I think those 2 items is offsetting.
But the quarter was definitely a pretty good quarter from a mortality standpoint.
As I mentioned when you look at the full year mortality came back in line with our long-term expectations which is what we'd expect.
Basically when we've seen variability in our mortality results in the Life Insurance business over the past year a couple of years it's primarily been related to an increase or a decrease in larger-sized clients.
And that's what we saw in the quarter.
We saw large-size claims come down which is what you would expect as we've grown the company and we've increased our retention of Life Insurance mortality experience.
So nothing unexpected a little bit more volatility in the year than one would want but I wouldn't say it’s unexpected.
And for the full year we ended up right in line with our long-term mortality expectations.
And that's what I would expect going forward sort of what we experienced for the full year as a trend line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So maybe an average for 2013 as opposed to building off the fourth quarter result? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Group Protection it seems that it's a pretty big percentage of your book that you're increasing pricing on.
I think you gave us the split of mix by line of business but I think you combined life and disability.
But even using those numbers it seems like a pretty big part of your book.
So I guess I'm just wondering how are you thinking about lost business as you think about that $60 million to $80 million? Clearly when you go back and reprice the business you could lose some.
So I just want to get a sense of what your expectations are on that front.
Yes.
I think strengthening pricing is going to affect your sales levels.
Specifically we've guessed that the employee -- excuse me the employer paid business will drop off from where it was last year.
And we would expect the business the voluntary business associated with the employee paid business separate from the worksite to drop off just a little bit.
But we expect worksite to come up.
So no big -- the mix will shift a little bit will be down estimating will be down a little bit next year but it's not -- a little bit is single-digit-type declines.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last numbers one for Randy if I could.
The RBC ratio I think you said you're estimating on the year was it above 500 or at 500 just wondering if you had any kind of a benefit from this change in the mortgage experience adjustment factor.
Yes we did.
We ended the year at right around 500.
We're not done with the calculation but it's going to be right around 500 maybe just a little above 500.
We benefited from 2 things during the year in the RBC calculation: The change in the commercial mortgage loan mortgage experience adjustment factor and also the normal process that goes on at the end of the year with the PIMCO/BlackRock re-projection of the RMBS and CMBS securities.
Both of those benefited us I would estimate roughly 10 points of RBC.
Research Division</strong> Is that 10 points combined or 10 points each? Each.
Our next question comes from Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Following up maybe on that last question can we talk a little bit more about the capital position which seemed rich.
Clearly it's a good problem to have.
But what are your thoughts on capital deployment with this position and even if you adjust for that $500 million of prefunding this quarter? So it seems like the Holdco liquidity is high and as is the RBC ratio.
So any thoughts in terms of priorities and then kind of magnitude of capital deployment for this year? Yes.
As I noted in my script I am guiding a little higher than we have in the past.
If you remember back to prior periods we've typically talked about $400 million of annual deployment before shareholder dividends or roughly $500 million or so once you added in the shareholder dividends.
If you go back to my script as I mentioned we did roughly $700 million in 2013 and I anticipate that total deployment next year will be in line with that same number.
Now we have increased our shareholder dividends so shareholder dividends are now up to roughly $170 million for the full year.
But after that you still have another $500 million to $550 million as opposed to the $400 million that we had talked about before.
So we are in a very strong capital position.
$700 million of cash at the holding company after the $500 million that we're holding for the first quarter maturities.
That's $200 million above our target.
As I mentioned we are experiencing good strong statutory results in the Life Insurance company which is allowing us to stand up to the holding company.
When you include the surplus note interest roughly $900 million a year so we're in a very good position to support the level of deployment I talked about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are there any new thoughts regarding the AG 38 subsidiaries? No.
We -- the results I talked about included an impact that we had in the state of New York specifically related to guaranteed universal life.
So the strong results included whatever we had to do for that particular item.
Our next question comes from Joanne Smith with Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on that question with respect to the RBC ratio of 500%.
It seems to me that that's a bit high and I'm just wondering what your thoughts around that are given the fact that the statutory earnings have been so strong? Joanne as I mentioned a little earlier to I believe it was -- I forgot exactly.
We did benefit at the end of the year from roughly 20 points from these 2 new items items that we wouldn't have expected.
So the 500 was higher than I expected as we came into the year even as we moved throughout the year.
So we do have to adjust a little bit for that.
We continue to have a strong capital position.
We continue to be generating strong statutory.
And I think it's going to allow us to push strong flows to the holding company which will allow us to be good and aggressive with our deployment this year.
Research Division</strong> Did you give a target for deployment? I must have missed that.
Yes I talked about $700 million which includes some total of shareholder dividends which will be roughly $170 million and share buybacks and other.
Our next question comes from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get a better sense on what really caused the deterioration in the disability margins all of a sudden because the margins had been fairly stable before but you're seeing incidents recovery everything sort of a case size deteriorated at the same time in 1 quarter.
So how much of this is a market issue versus maybe just mispricing that's showing up now? And then also you're obviously raising prices on your UL block but could you just discuss what type of returns you expect to get on the business that you sold over the past couple of years if we stay in this rate environment for a little bit? On the group business let me take that first.
There are 3 main drivers of the group disability results you're going to have your incidents your average claim size and your recoveries.
All 3 of those as I mentioned went against us this quarter in a way that impacted the results by roughly $12 million.
It's a bad quarter when all 3 of those go against you and that's what we experienced this quarter.
As Dennis talked about we have analyzed the experience in 2013 and we are reflecting -- and pricing really started to reflect that in pricing in the middle of this year.
When you price your product it's not any different from pricing an individual Life product.
And then one of the main components one of the main inputs of the pricing process is your experience and how that's going to impact your expectations for the future.
If you go back to the 2010 '11 '12 period for incidents for average claim size you saw very steady and consistent results.
Specifically for incidents the number was right in the high 3-9s [ph].
It was very steady very little variability around that number.
For average claim size you saw an average claim size that was $54 000 in 2010 growing $2 000 a year right in line with salary growth very consistent steady results.
That's what drove our pricing over that period into the first part of 2013.
When you come into 2013 you see a change in those metrics.
Incidents goes up by about 0.1 and claim size doesn't go up by that 3% to 4% level it jumps up by 6% to 8% by 4 000.
The experience we get that data as we moved through 2013 and we start to reflect it in pricing in the last half of the year.
So we changed our expectations that we're putting into the pricing.
That's what's happened that's what's happened over the last half year and that's what will happen as we move throughout the following 2 years as the business reprices along the schedule that I talked about.
The second question again was around life returns? Research Division</strong> Yes just on the business that you've sold the last couple of years.
Obviously you're raising prices on new sales but what type of returns are you getting on that now in this rate environment? The 2013 if we're talking about Life 2013 expected return was about 12%.
And when we look forward we're looking more on the mix of business depends on the mix of business but more on the 13% to 15% range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe another one on the VA business.
Is there more capacity in the market for reinsurance or other types of solutions assuming that you run out of the -- or you exhaust the coverage that you have on your current reinsurance contract.
Do you think you'd be able to renew -- that you'd be able to get more coverage if you could just talk about what you're seeing in the market? Yes.
I mentioned I think the total was about 33% of effectively non-guaranteed product sales in the fourth quarter.
About $500 million of that 33% came from the reinsurance contract.
When we look to next year we're actually going to be well below the amount of -- or above our targets on non-guaranteed business because of that contract.
That will give us -- that in 2014 will give us time to work more organic ways to get to the 70 30 in the VA business which is what I talked about.
More training around non-guaranteed sales and incentive for our wholesalers new products that are oriented towards sort of the traditional mutual fund tax [indiscernible] kind of sale of the variable annuity.
So we're pretty confident that with or without another reinsurance contract we'll be able to get to our targets specifically with respect to reinsurance contracts.
It was a good transaction for everybody based on the circumstances at the time.
If circumstances continue to provide good economics for both the reinsurer and the manufacturer my guess is there'll be more opportunity to do these deals.
But that's -- but that situation has to be in place.
Our next question comes from Eric Berg with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Randy I wanted to review some of the numbers that you gave for the first time during this call.
You said that approximately half of your group business is group life and group disability.
Is that right? Employer paid group life and disability.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And what -- can you review the rate of -- at which the -- could you repeat the rate at which the incremental revenue from the price increases will hit your revenue lines and when? So of the premiums we receive in 2014 $300 million of them will be at a repriced level.
Of the premiums we receive in 2015 $800 million will be at a repriced level.
And by the time you get into 2016 effectively the vast majority of the business will be at a repriced level.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And so just to -- my second question also just relates to the group insurance area.
So just to clarify what has happened here would it be right to say that as you have studied this this wasn't a case of discounting that should not have happened? Let me start again.
It seems to me that when any Life Insurance product is mispriced it could happen for 1 of 2 reasons either the price was too low to begin with and you're having claims experience consistent with your expectations or there was no discounting of the price and you're getting claims experience different from what you expected.
It seems like you're saying the latter here that there was no discounting of pricing it wasn't an issue of improper incentives or participation ratios that were too low.
You charged the price that you thought was the right price and you're getting a claims level higher than you anticipated.
Am I thinking about this correctly? I think that's right Eric.
It's hard to parse out when you start talking about the net price that you have which I think is what you're referring to as discounting.
It's hard to parse out the specifics of that dynamic.
And then you have the whole question of employee paid and employer paid is sold on a combined basis.
So I think the conclusion which you've come to is the right one based on what we're seeing today.
For whatever reason the price that we were charging a couple of years ago was too low.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just if I could sneak one last one in really quick.
Why should we think that profitability why is profitability given the competitiveness of the voluntary marketplace the employee paid marketplace and the associated anti-selection that can take place and the turnover of employees with the associated anti-selection there or write-off of back and so forth why is that business necessarily a higher-margin business than traditional group insurance? I think you've answered your own question because all of those things that you just said about the employer market -- excuse me the employee paid market have to be taken into consideration and therefore you have to charge more.
Our next question comes from Steven Schwartz of Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I did want to follow up I think it was Yaron who asked the question with regards to New York and the AG 38 issue I don't remember who answered it.
But whoever answered it seemed to suggest that that had been dealt with.
Is that -- and therefore was already in the RBC.
Is that an accurate statement? I was under the impression that this thing would stretch out over time.
We -- just like I believe most companies agreed to a rating period for the impact 5 years in our case.
We took this year's amount of that increase and those are reflected in the results that I talked about.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Randy can you share that amount? Sure.
It was $90 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> $90 million okay.
And then just still on the topic of regulation.
Dennis would you happen to know off the top of your head maybe how many states now have agreed kind of if it's worked for it but agreed to adopt PBR and how much premium that may represent? Not off the top of my head but I can with respect to the premium number.
But the number of adopting states is in the teens and there's a tremendous amount of work jointly going on between the ACLI and the NAIC to get more adoption in 2014 and 2015.
It's a what's the expression? A long drill through a hard bore.
I think a hard bore to long bore through a hard board but we'll get there.
Our next question comes from Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on the group business.
So Randy based on the earnings guidance of $60 million to $80 million for 2014 that implies or I guess I can infer the -- a little bit better than breakeven profitability from this quarter you do view that a big chunk of that as just quarterly unfavorable volatility that you would expect to recover.
So I assume that's the case just because of the much higher run rate that you expect not trending 4Q.
But then at the same time I know there's a multiyear repricing strategy ahead.
So I guess I just want to get a handle for you're clearly seeing something in your book that indicates there's a need to reprice yet you are expecting substantially higher profitability than we got this quarter.
I don't know can you help me reconcile that in terms of what level of the deterioration this quarter you viewed as somewhat permanent versus the alternative? Yes.
The way I get there Tom is we made -- let me apologize as my voice has a bit of frog in it right now.
We made $71 million this year.
And over the course of the year I normalized $11 million of favorable items $8 million this quarter $3 million last quarter.
So core earnings of $60 million normalized earnings of $60 million.
When you factor in premium growth off of that when you factor in the favorable impact of the repricing of the $300 million of premiums that I mentioned you're going to end up with a number in that $60 million to $80 million range.
Now if we do a little better than 2013 loss ratios inside of that we'll wind up at the high end of that range.
If we do a little worse than loss ratios over in 2013 we'll end up at the low end of that range and that's just sort of the numbers.
Just to remind everybody we estimate that 1% of the loss ratio is roughly $15 million of earnings.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And so you're clearly taking the full year annualized earnings view not necessarily taking some deterioration in 4Q as indicative of a trend that's a better way to think about it? Yes.
Yes exactly.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess just stepping back for a minute you guys gave some numbers on sales growth I believe between employer versus employee paid in the group business.
But if I look at a higher level the revenue growth that you've been producing on group has certainly outpaced the industry by a fairly wide margin at least the comps that we look at who have had kind of flattish top line growth and you guys are in the high-single-digits range.
Is it -- can we infer is it as simple as you've been growing above market taking some share and that's kind of what's driven the need to reprice here or is that not the right math? Could you rephrase that question again? I'm not...
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Just -- Dennis if I look just at the top line statistics that you guys had in terms of premium growth you've been growing high-single digits and the peers that we cover in the group business have been flattish.
And so just looking at having taken market share is that -- do you think it's just a symptom of what's going on with your group businesses.
You've taken some share and now as a result you probably have some less profitable business that needs to be repriced.
Or is it mainly just the employee paid business that has had much more dramatic growth and the employer paid business has been more consistent with industry trends? Yes.
The big driver of the increase in sales say since 2010 is almost 250% increase on employee paid.
If you look at market share in the business we have had a modest increase but not a significant increase.
I think we've gone from 4.2 to 5 over a 4-year period again most of that being driven by employee paid growth although employer paid growth sales did grow as well.
So we took a little bit of market share and I think we keep coming back to -- there's no question that we should have gotten better prices a couple of years ago on the business given what has unfolded with respect to the trends around disability incidents and recoveries and size claims and so forth a little bit on the life mortality side.
So yes we've got a little bit more share maybe it was pricing.
But when I just look internally we knew what we were doing and it just turned out what we thought was fluctuation and some of these key mortality and morbidity numbers appeared to us at the moment to be higher than what we were pricing for.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And -- sorry Dennis just to -- I just want to make sure I understood that correctly.
You grew employee paid 250% over what period of time? Well let me just give you the numbers.
The sales of employee paid went from $120 million in 2010 to $254 million.
So I guess it's more like a doubling to $254 million in 2013.
And you didn't see that kind of growth in the employer paid.
Our final question comes from Mark Finkelstein with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Two very very quick questions I think for Randy.
One Randy do you view debt reduction -- I don't know if you covered this or not but do you view debt reduction as a part of the capital deployment in '14? I know you took kind of $100 million net debt out of that $700 million.
Actually we pre-funded our early maturities for 2014 so there really isn't much we can do around the net debt reduction in 2014.
So I think we're going to be definitely skewed towards share buybacks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just generally speaking are you kind of where you want to be in terms of ratios? We feel very good about where we are significantly in that we've brought our amount of interest expense down significantly over the last few years.
So we feel very good about where we are from a leverage standpoint.
It's always something we've looked at as we look at our capitals to go but we feel very good about where we are from a leverage or coverage standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally I think you gave some spread outlook on retirement.
I'm curious if you said it I missed it what is the outlook on Life Insurance in terms of spread compression for '14? Yes.
At these levels of investment we'd expect mid-single digits to low-double digits so 5 to 10 6 to 11 somewhere in there.
And that concludes the Q&amp;A session.
I will now turn the call back over to Jim Sjoreen for final comments.
We want to thank you all for joining us this morning.
As always we can take your calls or e-mails in the Investor Relations Department.
So please give me a call and we'll try to get back to you as soon as possible.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for joining Lincoln Financial Group's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Jim Sjoreen.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
And good morning and welcome to Lincoln Financial's First Quarter Earnings Call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about sales and deposits income from operations and liquidity and capital resources are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln's website www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to their most comparable GAAP measures.
Presenting on today's call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis.
Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
Lincoln had a very good first quarter continuing the operating and earnings strength we have seen develop over the last several years.
One of the highlights of the quarter was operating revenue reaching $3.2 billion up 10% from a year ago.
The growth achieved reflected continued overall franchise strength strong sales positive net flows and equity markets driving higher account balances.
Operatings per share were up 31% year-over-year resulting in a return on equity of 12% for the first quarter.
Earnings per share growth exceeded revenue growth as every line of business showed margin improvement compared to last year.
We repurchased 3 million shares during the quarter at a cost of $150 million.
We see value in buying back our stock and it remains a key component of our 2014 capital plan.
We also continue to focus our attention on key strategic actions including tapping distribution to expand our presence in new and existing markets repricing essentially our entire product portfolio which we have completed and diversifying product risk by balancing sales of products with an emphasis on those without long-term guarantees.
We ended the first quarter with 2/3 of total sales coming in the form of shorter-duration guaranteed products.
Over time this emphasis will meaningfully change our In-Force risk profile.
Our efforts to increase investment income by adding alternative investments and select new classes in our fixed account showed progress.
I'll provide more detail on these results and other actions so let me now turn to the business lines.
Starting with the Life segment.
The majority of our product repositioning over the last 2 years has been in the individual life line with a focus on pricing actions necessitated by low interest rates while we have simultaneously diversified product risk by primarily reducing long-term guarantee sales.
We completed the major repricing in the first quarter with the introduction of a new MoneyGuard product.
New business returns across the Life portfolio are now comfortably within the 12% to 14% range.
Sales of our individual Life products were up 14% compared to the year-ago quarter.
Our results benefited from continued strong sales of Indexed UL Variable Universal Life and Term.
Lower MoneyGuard sales were due to the new product introduction.
COLI sales which are lumpy declined this quarter but we expect good results for the year.
In addition we maintained the diverse profitable solution set that we have been building over time as evidenced this quarter by no single product accounting for more than 30% of our total Life sales.
The strength of our well-balanced profitable product portfolio teamed with the depth and breadth of our distribution relationships position us well to adapt to market dynamics and client needs and will help us continue the sales momentum started in the first quarter.
Turning to our individual annuity business.
It was another quarter of outstanding results.
Annuity sales of $3.4 billion drove positive net flows of $695 million.
Total account values of $117 billion were up 15% from a year ago.
Long-term guaranteed sales dropped to about half of total annuity sales helped by strong fixed annuity sales increased emphasis on VAs without living benefits and reinsurance.
Total variable annuity sales $2.9 billion were flat over the prior year quarter.
We continue to shift our wholesaler focus to be in line with our strategy of reducing reliance on VA living benefits.
We would expect to make further progress toward this goal when we launch an investment-focused product later this year.
The solution will provide an efficient platform for account value performance and complement our existing products.
As I've said before I like our approach to the annuity business notably the volume of sales we are getting and the profitability and risk profile of new business in today's environment.
The strategic consistency we have demonstrated from pricing and product actions to our best-in-class distribution industry-leading risk management and effective hedging I believe gives us a competitive advantage regardless of how the industry evolves over time.
In our Group Protection business we remain focused on repricing our employer-paid life and disability business as well as pivoting toward employee-paid segments.
Last quarter I stated that we had approximately $1 billion of earned premium associated with our employer-paid life and disability business.
In the first quarter we repriced about 25% of that $1 billion and achieved our target rate increases.
Sales of $64 million in the first quarter were down 10% from the prior year.
This is a response to the employer-paid price increases we implemented on new business in the beginning of the year.
Our pivot strategy toward the employee-paid segment is performing well as sales in this segment represented more than 60% of total Group Protection sales up from nearly 50% in 2013.
Further illustrating this shift the industry data showed that in 2013 we increased our ranking in this space moving up to 8th from 10th.
Efforts to reprice the employer-paid business and strengthen our employee-paid platform will remain our near-term focus.
Our Retirement Plan Service business continued its strong performance.
Total sales of $1.8 billion in the quarter were up 5% from the prior year contributing to account value growth of 12%.
In the small market segment we are leveraging the strength of LFD by expanding shelf space with existing partners like Merrill Lynch growing our sales force by almost 30% and broadening our product portfolio all of which led to first year small market sales being up 31%.
We also expanded our presence in the mid/large market including a push into the government space that started last year.
Our overall mid/large market sales pipeline is strong with 67% of sales coming from consultants and advisers that have never done business with us before.
Net flows were negative in the first quarter due to the lumpy nature of this business as we win and lose large cases.
As an example we started the second quarter off on a strong foot with the implementation of our largest government case to date a $385 million plan with the Washington transit authority.
Looking ahead we will continue to grow our footprint in the small-case market through expanded distribution; build out our strategic partnerships among consultants wirehouses and independent planning firms; and differentiate ourselves from our competitors through our high-touch value proposition.
Moving to distribution.
The depth and breadth of our retail wholesale and worksite teams enabled us to continue to achieve strong and diversified mix of sales by product and channel.
This included our strategic shift to sell more products without long-term guarantees where as I mentioned total sales reached 2/3 in the first quarter.
At Lincoln Financial Distributors our wholesale distribution the number of producers selling Lincoln products rose 8% year-over-year reaching more than 65 000.
Simultaneously productivity increased with repeat producers and producers selling more than 1 product both growing by 17%.
Our cross-sell initiative is gaining momentum as demonstrated by 24% of RPS small-market sales coming from referrals of producers selling our annuity products.
We expanded our LFD sales force in the quarter to drive our strategies to grow Life and RPS as well as to shift sales to products without long-term guarantees.
The total sales force is now 600 strong.
This distribution scale and our broad product portfolio combined with leading sellers of our products and our cross-sell initiative is a competitive advantage for us.
Shifting to Lincoln Financial Network.
Our retail distribution successfully recruited affiliated advisers growing the adviser network to more than 8 500 a record high.
LFN is a strategic and another competitive advantage delivering 13% of total sales and again driving our shift to sell products without long-term guarantees.
We are making investments in LFN that will build upon this success and deepen our retail strength.
Spending a minute on investment management.
You have heard me talk in the past about having the flexibility to broaden our investment strategies and we continue to enhance returns specifically in 2 areas: alternatives and yield-enhancing debt.
We are driving strong results due to our proactive actions to grow and expand these programs as evidenced by 24% year-over-year growth in our alternatives carrying value and an incremental 22 basis points contributed to our new money yield during this quarter from yield-enhancing debt.
As we expand these programs we maintain substantial room to increase our exposures while remaining disciplined in our execution.
Our overall portfolio credit quality is A- with only a 5.5% exposure to below-investment-grade assets.
In the first quarter our new money yield of 4.6% was 40 basis points above our average new money yield in 2013 and within 60 basis points of our fixed income portfolio yield further easing the rate of spread compression we have been experiencing.
Let me close my comments today briefly by saying once again that we had a very good quarter.
The actions we are taking led to strong results that will help set the tone for the remainder of the year.
And with that I'll turn it over to Randy.
Randy? Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of $365 million or $1.34 per share for the first quarter up 31% from the prior year period.
The quarter's results provided a strong and clean start to the year.
While there were small pluses and minuses right across the segments in total there were no normalizing earnings adjustments that I would spec out for you.
Similar to the first quarters of prior years we did experience elevated mortality in the individual life business that I will discuss in more detail during the segment discussion.
In addition to strong earnings the quarter featured strong performance across most financial measures including robust top line performance as noted by Dennis with operating revenue growing 10%; expense discipline with G&amp;A net of capitalized expenses up 4%.
Coupled with the strong revenue result we saw G&amp;A as a percent of revenues decline 70 basis points year-over-year; and book value per share excluding AOCI continuing to grow nicely up 9% to $45.63; while return on equity came in at 12.2%.
Share repurchase for the quarter totaled $150 million.
As always we'll look to meet or exceed our annual target of $500 million to $550 million depending on how the year develops.
Remaining authority under existing share repurchase authorization is now down to $208 million.
And so consistent with past practice we do expect to go to the board in a few weeks to ask for an increase to the authorization.
We had very good results from the investment portfolio with realized losses related to investments coming in at $17 million for the quarter with most of the losses coming from a few assets that get mark to market and that do move around from quarter-to-quarter.
Despite a fair amount of volatility in the capital markets the hedge program had another strong quarter with $14 million of breakage which is well within our pricing expectations.
I will point out that we did include a new page in the stat supplement that breaks out our earnings on a pretax basis by their source.
We're providing this information as a supplement to existing disclosures in order to provide more clarity on the underlying sources of earnings versus what's disclosed in the traditional segment reporting.
The data is going to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter so annual results will provide a cleaner picture on the trends in our mix and progress towards our long-term goal of increasing the contribution for mortality and morbidity margins.
Turning to segment results and starting with Annuities.
Reported earnings for the quarter were $216 million a 36% increase over the prior year.
Operating revenues increased 17% from the first quarter of 2013 as positive net flows and strong equity markets drove a 16% increase in average account values that at the end of the quarter reached a record $117 billion.
The ROE in the annuity business remained in line with the outperformance of the segment coming in at 26.8% for the quarter.
Strong earnings revenues and returns another quarter of great financial performance for the annuity segment.
In Retirement Plan Services we reported earnings of $39 million.
Year-over-year revenue growth of 4% benefited from a 10% increase in fee income from assets under management.
Account values increased 12% from the prior year period and ended the quarter at a record $52 billion.
The pace of spread compression in the retirement segment has slowed as normalized spreads came in 8 basis points lower compared to a year ago and 1 basis point lower compared to the prior quarter.
Return on assets for the quarter of 30 basis points and pretax net margin of 35% a commonly used industry metric both came in at the high end of our expectations.
A really good all-around quarter for the retirement business.
I'm especially encouraged to see strong earnings growth despite the headwind of spread compression.
The Life Insurance segment reported earnings in the quarter of $120 million.
Earnings drivers were strong in the quarter with average account balances up 7% and Life Insurance In-Force of $623 billion up nearly 5%.
As I mentioned earlier we did experience elevated mortality and that negatively impacted the quarter by $18 million but between expected seasonal mortality that we often experience during the first quarter and additional mortality above our expectations.
Strong performance from the alternative investment portfolio offset about 1/3 of the mortality experienced.
I would also note that the reserve financings that we have been doing in the Life segment do serve as a headwind to segment earnings growth.
As you may recall we did complete reserve financing in 2013 and I'd estimated that it negatively impacted Life's earnings by $5 million or so compared to the first quarter of 2013.
Of course we have been able to deploy much of the capital freed up by these transactions which has benefited earnings per share and return on equity.
The Group Protection segment reported earnings of $20 million in the quarter a 43% improvement from last year's first quarter.
The nonmedical loss ratio of 74.8% was flat with the prior year quarter and remains just outside the high end of our target range.
Earnings benefited from improved margins in all product lines with the exception of long-term disability.
LTD incidents did come in above the prior year period but for the quarter was offset by lower average reserves on new disability claims.
As Dennis noted we have begun to take the pricing actions outlined on last quarter's call and that process will continue over the next 7 or 8 quarters As I mentioned last quarter we expect approximately $300 million of our 2014 earned premiums to be repriced and we remain on pace to achieve this target.
The quarter's results are more representative of the earnings power of the business and with the pricing actions underway we are encouraged by the fact that earnings for the quarter did come in at the top end of the guidance.
However I do remain somewhat cautious as we have yet to see an established trend in our experience which will be an important step towards more consistent earnings performance.
Turning to capital activities.
As noted earlier we repurchased $150 million of our shares during the quarter.
Additionally we did have strong statutory performance with statutory surplus ending the quarter at $8.2 billion while RBC came in north of 500%.
During the quarter we sent $150 million of dividends to the holding company.
Those dividends $500 million of debt maturities during the quarter the share buybacks and other holding company cash flows left us with $562 million of cash at the holding company at the end of the quarter.
The quarter's results are a great way to start off 2014.
Strong top line growth of 10% disciplined expense management with solid improvement in expense ratios continued capital deployment through share buybacks consistent growth and strength in the balance sheet with book value per share up 9% and strong returns with return on equity in excess of 12% these metrics all speak to the strength of the current quarter and when coupled with the strong new business returns noted by Dennis leave us with a great deal of confidence about quarters to come.
Before I turn the call over to the operator for Q&amp;A I do have an announcement to make one of those happy and sad announcements.
After more than 30 years of serving the company 11 years in the role of Head of IR Jim Sjoreen has decided to retire from Lincoln.
So at the end of the year Jim is going to be hanging up his spurs unfortunately.
Jim is going to continue to be your main contract -- contact as we go about the process of undergoing a search for Jim's replacement.
On behalf of Dennis and the entire senior management team and myself who has had the pleasure of working with Jim for some time I would like to thank him for his many years of dedicated service.
And we obviously wish him nothing but success in his next life.
With that let's move to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Seth Weiss of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the annuity segment and the run rate of earnings.
And if we look at where the earnings are on an adjusted basis earnings are about 35% or so up from the first quarter of last year.
That's about double the increase in the pace of the account values.
I know there's an element of operating leverage there but obviously there's beneficial mix shift that's going on as well.
Perhaps you could comment on just the sustainability of this earnings run rate and how we should think about earnings growth going forward if it will more closely match growth in account value.
Yes.
Sure Seth.
I'm going to throw out some numbers here so I apologize for that.
But the growth actually if you use the sensitivities that we provide and factor in things like net flows actually makes a lot of sense.
Last year in the first quarter we made $159 million.
Markets on average were up 21% from the first quarter of 2013.
We have a sensitivity that we provide which talks about $7 million or so for each percent movement in the S&amp;P.
That translates into $35 million to $40 million of quarterly earnings.
So you add that to the $159 million and you're up to the $195 million to $200 million range.
You factor in that we had roughly $5 billion of positive net flows over that period of time $4 billion to $5 billion you're talking about another $7 million or so of earnings.
So now you're up to the $200 million to $207 million or $208 million range.
Factor in some expense leverage we're doing a good job managing expenses you're up to somewhere between $210 million and $215 million.
So I find the number during the quarter -- you can do that same sort of analysis compared to the fourth quarter also.
So I find the number quite rational when compared to what we've earned in the past and feel very good about the dollars of earnings were making in the annuity business.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very comprehensive.
So if we think about mix shift of business and what I'm thinking about there is new cohorts and hedging costs being less given less rich products I guess that's a de minimis amount then if we do the math that you just did for us.
I think you're seeing the profitability of that that we've been talking about on our new business in a number of different places.
You're seeing it in the earnings growth.
You're also seeing it -- to use the new earnings by source analysis we provided you see our profitability on VA writers up a little greater percentage than the fees on AUM and that is reflective of the strong profitability that we're getting on new sales which is reflected in a cost of hedging that is lower while at the same time we've raised fees on these products.
Our next question is from Jimmy Bhullar of JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> The first question just on retirement flows.
Overall you mentioned the large cases in the first quarter.
But you've reported a couple of negative quarters now in a row in terms of flows and both quarters had high withdrawals.
So I'm not sure if Chuck's on the call but to what extent is this just normal [indiscernible]? Or are you seeing losses of cases in a certain market segment or in a certain part of the industry? And then secondly for Dennis maybe if you could talk about how your preference for -- or your view on share buybacks versus other uses of capital such as dividends or acquisitions has changed given the increase in the stock price over the past year? Let me take the first one on RPS.
We don't see any systemic issue with the fourth quarter negative flows and the first quarter negative flows in RPS.
Predominantly it's in the ebb and flow of large cases.
As I mentioned we're starting the second quarter of 2014 on a very positive note with plus $350 million from that one case.
So I really say that that's just the ebb and flow of large case activities and nothing systemic.
If you see the continued positive growth in sales expansion of the wholesaler market or the wholesalers the addition of new consultants I think the pipeline it always -- it paints a very good story for the underpinnings for growth in that business.
With respect to share buybacks Randy's more the expert but I'll start off on that.
We continue to think as I said in my remarks that buying the stock back at this price is a great investment.
And obviously to your point the return on investment at today's price is a little bit less than it was a year ago when we were selling at a deeper discount to book.
But nonetheless in terms of the free cash flow that's being generated and has by the way consistently been generated over the last several years we talked about the $600 million or so up at the holding company coming out of the subsidiaries up to the holding company.
And as Randy has said in the past that's sort of our target amount for both the dividends and share buybacks.
I'll also point out that we ended the quarter with RBC of 550% which is a little higher than we probably managed to during -- north of 500% that we've managed to.
So bottom line we have the capacity both from the generation of free cash flow we have some capacity given our RBC position and we think the stock -- purchase of the stock is a good value.
With -- let me go now to dividends.
Dividends are -- have been increasing at pretty substantial percent increases over the last couple of years.
Growth in the dividend is something that we believe in.
Obviously it's the Board of Directors' decision and we'd like to continue to see that growth over time.
So those are those 2.
Now alternative use of capital let's put it in the 3 buckets: one share repurchases and dividends which I've already talked about; two is new business; then three is M&amp;A.
It's quite remarkable that the industry has moved from -- just generally speaking has moved over the past 24 months from putting business out 10%-plus to now putting business out in the 12% to 15% range.
And I can't tell you what every other competitor is getting in terms of internal rate of returns.
But I can tell you that everybody has moved up and we have very rational pricing.
So putting new business out at these and across our businesses -- I mentioned we repriced all the business that had to be repriced.
But we're in this 12% to 15% range across our businesses on a pricing expectation a little bit north of that on the VA business maybe fixed annuities dropped below the 12%.
But the bulk of what we're selling has very good returns on the capital that we're deploying.
So that then leaves M&amp;A.
The M&amp;A market is episodic.
We never include M&amp;A as part of our growth strategy.
But if something comes along that would accelerate our growth strategy or our objectives such as increasing mortality and morbidity we'd take a look at that.
And so that's our -- that's my broad view.
Our next question is from Joanne Smith of Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions just on the VA market overall.
Everybody's been talking about the fact that it's a hard market out there and that the returns on the business that they've been writing for the past couple of years are very attractive.
In the past that's always attractive.
Additional capital to the market and competition has heated up over time.
I'm wondering if you've seen any change in the environment and/or if you expect that to change over the near term and if there are any particular competitors out there that are being aggressive.
Well let's back up to last year because there's some repositioning in people reducing the volumes that they were interested in selling and there were new entrants into the market.
And that movement sort of affected the amount of business that we were getting.
I think most of that individual company movement has settled down now.
And when we look at the list of competitors in the marketplace today and the dispersion if you will of the business among those competitors our view is it's as solid a group of competitors as we have seen for a long time.
And although there are pricing movements at the margin we don't see nor do we expect to see any overly aggressive pricing in order to capture market share.
So just stepping back to the way I answered that comment before the life business has been repriced and good competitors good healthy environment.
The VA business has been repriced good competitors good healthy environment.
So we're pretty comfortable with both of those businesses.
In terms of competition not getting crazy.
Now from time to time someone's going to come in possibly.
And either one of them are going to try to establish a position and for a short period of time they may underprice a product intentionally to create market share.
But the value propositions that we have across our businesses selling business on our terms isn't going to be affected by an occasional outlier for good reasons or bad reasons.
And the strength of our distribution adds a lot of comfort to our ability to pivot as we've talked about.
So I'm pretty optimistic really about the competitive environment where we stand.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So Dennis then all of the de-risking that's taken place in the products a lot of product is being sold without a living benefit rider anymore.
What exactly is the value proposition that you offer to the customer? And I'm wondering if we're going to start to see reprisal of those articles that were predominant in the press about the fact that variable annuities are a rip-off and blah blah.
It seemed to me that the addition of the living benefit guarantees was the differentiating factor between buying a variable annuity and buying a mutual fund and a life insurance policy.
Yes.
Over the last 10 to 15 years the value proposition changed and I think it's moving back a little bit.
So 15 years ago the value proposition was a mutual fund and a tax-deferred wrapper.
And that's how the industry and that's how Lincoln sold the product.
For a lot of reasons that value proposition evolved as you pointed out to more of an income guarantee.
And I think the income guarantee from a consumer perspective is going -- it will drive a lot of sales in the industry and it will drive a lot of sales at Lincoln.
And even though we're deemphasizing -- I've said this several times but the long-term guaranteed business that we sell we sell on our terms at risk levels that's acceptable to Lincoln and at returns that's -- that are acceptable to Lincoln.
So the business that we are selling we're quite comfortable with across our portfolio in long-dated guarantees.
So now let me go to present-state environment.
There's a little bit of a shift both from the consumer and the manufacturers to the old mutual fund and a tax-deferred wrapper.
And in part I think I said this last quarter if you look at the marginal tax rates in your own tax returns this year they've gone up dramatically as there's been a reduction in the benefit for tax reductions at the individual levels.
So there really is a reason why people might come back into the old -- the objective of mutual fund inside a tax-deferred wrapper and that's exactly what we're doing with this product that we're introducing in the next couple of weeks actually.
Is that helpful? Research Division</strong> Yes that's a good point.
Our next question is from Tom Gallagher of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First good luck to Jim Sjoreen.
Been great working with you.
My question is just on -- if I have the numbers right Randy I think you said life earnings were down $5 million due to reserve financing.
Is that -- was that the right adjustment on a year-over-year basis? Yes that is correct Tom.
Research Division</strong> And Randy how big of a financing was that related to? Was that $200 million $300 million? Last year I think we ended up with $450 million-or-so of reserve financing capital generation.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So -- okay.
So if I annualize it $20 million of costs related to $450 million of capital freed up.
Is that the right math? Yes that's roughly the right math.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So from your standpoint now the stock's done well so when you consider buyback versus the cost of reserve financing I assume that tradeoff is still reasonably accretive.
Is that something that you guys track pretty closely? Yes it's very accretive.
And you really can see it in the ROE on the -- when you get inside the overall company and inside the Life business which if you didn't do this reserve financing the Life business would get dragged down over time.
So yes we definitely look at the cost versus the reward of doing reserve financings and it truly is a layup that it makes sense to do these reserve financings.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And would you expect this year there's still that opportunity? Would you expect a similar sized amount? Yes.
I don't know that we'll do one this year.
As I mentioned $450 million last year's above our expectations.
What I'd note though is that if you look at the last couple of years back in 2012 we had stat operating earnings of about $800 million and we did $200 million of reserve financings for a total of $1 billion of the combination of 2.
Last year we had stat operating earnings of about $750 million.
They were down a little bit because of some of the strain we had before we pulled out of New York so on guaranteed universal life.
But we have the extra reserve financing.
So the sum of the 2 is about $1.2 billion.
If you look here in the first quarter you think that we've exited GUL in New York.
GUL as a sales -- as a percentage of our total sales are down dramatically.
You saw some of that benefit with stat operating earnings in the first quarter at $350 million.
Now I don't expect that to be $350 million each and every quarter.
I think we had a pretty good quarter.
But my point is that I expect operating earnings and total deployable whether it comes from financing or from operating earnings to continue to be in that $1 billion range.
So it gives us all the capacity we need to continue to support the deployment that we've done over the last 3 years.
So if you want to expand your question beyond what you asked just do I think we can continue to deploy capital at the same rate we have been deploying it for the last 3 years? Absolutely absolutely based upon what the actual facts that have happened over the last few years.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate it.
That was helpful.
I guess the only other question I had related to RBC and your strategy is Dennis I know you had mentioned you continue to move along in terms of the yield enhancement strategy including alternatives and I presume other higher-yielding securities.
How big should we expect that program to be? And is that going to consume some RBC as well? The alternatives program near term the account balances today are about $1 billion try to get to about $1.2 billion which is obviously 20%.
But in the context of an $80 billion general account portfolio not that big.
And that does grab some RBC but it's not been a meaningful amount in terms of our RBC planning.
The second piece which is some of these higher-yielding strategies within the fixed income portfolio don't necessarily have incremental RBC.
So for example BBB private gives much better 20 or 30 basis points more yield than a BBB public.
And yet from an RBC standpoint the RBC calculation is the same.
So yes there will be some utilization of RBC but it's not significant enough to affect what Randy was just talking about in terms of overall statutory or free cash flow generation.
Our next question is from Suneet Kamath of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the mortality in the Life Insurance business.
So first of all can you give some perspectives in terms of what it was driven by? I mean we're hearing from some other companies that it's older aged large cases.
So any color in terms of frequency severity in terms of what you saw on the quarter would be helpful.
Yes Suneet.
Normal first quarter experience which is a seasonality that we and other companies talk about is typically related to you see a lot of respiratory- circulatory-related death which is often linked to flu pneumonia that sort of stuff.
So that's definitely in there.
Over and above that the experience I think relates to the -- partly to the fact that this was a colder more severe than normal winter and I think there's some of that in there.
In terms of digging into the claims by age by duration by cohort we didn't really see any trend other than the larger claims the million-plus claims were a little above at a disproportionate piece of the $18 million impact.
That's not surprising.
I mean we sell big cases we're a big case provider so I'm not really surprised by that.
So inside of the claims we didn't see any trend other than the fact that it appears to be the normal sort of claims that you see in the winter months which is flu pneumonia that sort of stuff related.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So all else equal when you're giving us this $18 million number is basically what you're saying that we would expect to kind of get that back in 2Q? I mean again there's always going be some fluctuation but that's kind of how we should think about the $18 million.
Is that right? It's above our expectations.
Whether it comes back or not I guess is we'll know in second quarter.
But it is above our expectations.
That $18 million is above our expectations.
Now in terms of mortality for the organization I would point out that relative to the first quarter of 2013 in total if you think about total Lincoln it's about the same number as we had last year.
We had $19 million actually last year in the first quarter $12 million in individual and $7 million in group.
We had good group experience this same time.
So in total mortality across Lincoln was about the same as last year.
It just happened to be a little disproportionately represented in the individual business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then you had also mentioned about 1/3 of the $18 million was offset by higher alternative investment income.
But you're also talking about maybe expanding that asset classes you've done in the past.
So is the $6 billion is that something that we should really think about as onetime? Or is that just -- it just so happens that alternatives were higher because you're been growing the book and that may not necessarily go away? Well there was some impact because the book has grown as Dennis mentioned about $1 billion at the end of the quarter.
But the return on the portfolio was stronger in the quarter $6 million inside the life book.
I mean there were some small favorable impacts across the other businesses.
I would estimate that total favorable impact relative to sort of a 10% expected return over the alternative book add about $9 million after deducting tax in total across the whole organization so roughly $0.03 if you want to think about it that way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last one just maybe a follow-up to Tom's question about the reserve financings.
So what's the rationale in terms of not doing one this year? Is it just that you don't have enough sort of Life Insurance business warehoused or terms have changed? Or -- because it sounded like it's a pretty easy tradeoff for you I guess to do the deal versus buyback a layup I think is your terms in your words.
So why not pursue one this year? Just availability it's the availability of financeable reserves at the company.
So we did a lot last year $450 million as I mentioned.
It takes us a couple of years of sales on the term book to build up the numbers to make a reserve financing that makes sense i.e.
would get up to about $200 million of excess reserves or so.
So we did a big term deal last year takes a couple of years to build up for the next one.
On the GUL side we're just not selling it much as we were before so it's become a relatively small piece of the overall sales.
So it takes a longer period of time to build up a GUL financing.
So it just has to do with what we're selling today and the fact that we did a nice financing late in the year last year.
Our next question comes from Steven Schwartz of Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations to Jim as well.
It's been an amazing ride.
I appreciate all your hard work.
The -- I want to touch back on the adverse mortality in the quarter and then a couple of those things.
Randy when you're talking about above expectations you're looking at some A to E for the year.
Would that be an accurate statement? Basically looking at what we price for so what are the assumptions that go into a product that we price and comparing the actual results to that.
That's our E for business that we've sold over the last 15 to 20 years.
For older business where we may not have the pricing expectation we use the standard industry table as the expectation.
But for everything we sold over the last 15 years or so we're just using the pricing expectation.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If you were to look at the $18 million as you pointed out there's always some adverse mortality relative to pricing expectation in the first quarter whether it be a flu or a Christmas effect or whatever it is.
How would this -- how would that $18 million -- what would you take out of that $18 million? Yes.
I would say that about $6 million to $7 million I would think of as seasonality and the rest of it I would think as experienced above that normal seasonality.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then there are a couple of others.
There was a statement you made that you saw higher incidence in disability but you put up lower reserves per claim.
Why was that? Well the claim the reserve per average -- the average reserve that you put out for each policy is necessarily driven by the incidents.
Digging in those numbers a little bit.
We had incidents in the quarter of just a little over 4 which is within our range.
It was right in line with the experience we had last year.
It was just a little above last year's experience.
I'm not overly concerned about it but I just wanted to point out that it was a tick above where we were in the first quarter of last year.
In terms of the average reserve we put up for each claim that's driven by all sorts of assumptions that go into the reserve termination expectation the type of claim the average salary of the individual that went on claim.
So just when you wrap all of those assumptions together the average reserve was -- for each policy we put up was just a little over -- this year it was at about $57 000 versus $60 000 last year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the reserve financing that $5 million that was after tax? Yes that was the after-tax impact.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So that's 2.9% after-tax cost of that.
That's a no-brainer to go back and buy shares.
Jim all the very best.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Chris Giovanni of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Congrats to Jim as well.
Dennis I guess first question for you.
We've heard from some distributors that the high end of the market is seeing the premium finance market come back into play in a pretty big way given the low interest rate environment.
So wondering if this is something you're seeing at Lincoln.
As you know Lincoln is a big case provider.
Is it something you're seeing in the marketplace more broadly? We're not seeing it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a federal oversight I guess how are you thinking about this for Lincoln? I guess the reason I ask I went to this ACLI conference a few months back and ACLI President and CEO Dirk Kempthorne talked about how over half the premium volume of ACLI members are going to be subject to capital standards that differ from the states and believe that if they're going to be regulated differently that the remainder of industry at some point is likely to face new standards as well.
Any thoughts in terms of how you're thinking about it at this point? Yes.
Let me distinguish between the primary regulator of the states and the secondary regulator whether it be the Fed the Treasury or some international body.
The states regulate at the subsidiary level.
These others regulate at the holding company level.
So that's a pretty important distinction.
The industry effort is first and foremost to get the secondary regulators to use insurance-centric metrics for setting standards for solvency and what makes a strong company.
And we're working together to accomplish that because it's the right thing for the industry.
So that's what's being talked about.
With respect to Lincoln we have no expectation that we'll fall under any of the secondary regulators at all.
And I've said this publicly a couple of times the gatekeepers for what might be additional capital requirements are the rating agencies.
And to my knowledge the rating agencies are indifferent to what's going on at the secondary regulator basis.
So I don't see secondary regulation in any foreseeable future affecting Lincoln.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last quick one just for Randy in terms of financial leverage.
You had the $500 million of short-term debt roll off.
Your supplement shows a leverage ratio of about 18.5%.
Curious how that compares to the rating agencies' view of this ratio how much debt capacity you may have and how we should be thinking about potentially relevering? Or are you still sort of focused on keeping it where you are or delevering? It's the same message we've had for some time now Chris.
We're very comfortable with the leverage we're at today.
Don't see a need to go out and add to that but don't see the explicit need to continue to bring leverage down which we had done over the past 3 to 4 years.
So very comfortable with where we are today.
In terms of the rating agencies they all have their own particular measure or definition of leverage.
So you get a fairly wide dispersion among all the agencies.
We are in line with all of their expectations for a AA-rated company.
Our next question comes from John Nadel of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> To Jim I'm entirely jealous.
A couple of questions.
I think you mentioned the new money yield of 4.6% for the quarter.
I'm just curious.
More than anything obviously rates continue to fall.
So just wondering today in round numbers what the new money yield might look like relative to that 4.6%? 4.5%.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
On the Annuities side on the variable annuity reinsurance agreement just wondering where the capacity stands at the end of the quarter given the sales.
$3 billion out of the $4 billion remains.
Research Division</strong> Terrific.
And then in the annuity -- I think you run the broker-dealer business results through the annuity segment.
I'm just curious whether the broker-dealer is actually contributing any earnings or is that still a slight money loser how that business is progressing.
We've seen some great results from some others.
I'll let Randy answer it specifically.
We don't run any business as a money loser.
For very long.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that comment Dennis.
It's a good story John.
The broker-dealer is contributing an amount of earnings that is consistent with the capital that we allocate to.
Basically what we're asking our broker-dealer to do is return a reasonable return on the capital that we have invested in it.
It's a few million dollars a quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the group side.
So maybe Randy I just was having trouble keeping up.
If you could just go through the -- I think individual life mortality was worse than pricing by $18 million after tax.
Was Group Life priced -- Group Life mortality better than pricing by -- I think I got the calculation about $5 million after tax.
No group was right in line with our expectations for the quarter.
So what I said when I was combining the 2 a little earlier is that if you go back to the first quarter of 2013 we talked about $19 million of mortality over and above our expectations.
That was $12 million in individual $7 million in group.
That's last year.
This year we have $18 million of mortality above our expectations.
It's just all in individual.
So we have a similar dollar amount the business unit that appears is a little different this year.
Our next question is from Ryan Krueger of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Congrats Jim as well.
Dennis you've laid out an objective to increase the mortality and morbidity contribution from the mid-20s to 33% over time.
Do you think you can achieve that organically? Or would that likely require some M&amp;A at some point? Likely require some M&amp;A.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there any sort of time frame you have in mind on the objective? Or is it just a longer-term one? There really is no near-term objective.
I think that what we're trying to do is to see our share price perform better over cycles.
And so in the short term the drivers of our earnings are all very positive and the mix that we have will continue to drive very acceptable returns.
So there's no urgency with this objective.
But I think over time that better diversification of earnings will provide more stability in the stock in periods of high volatility in the markets and so forth.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on the dividend your payout ratio is around 12%.
Some of your peers have been increasing the payout into the 20% to 25% range.
Just wondering how you're thinking about your dividend payout ratio over time compared to peers.
We think about the dividend -- one of the earlier questions was how much capital do we have available to deploy what's the generation of free cash flow at the holding company and expectation of growth.
Those are the criteria that drive the recommendations to the board.
Jumping to -- and I know the criteria of payout as a percentage of earnings is commonly understood and commonly used but we're not focused on that as much as what's sustainable what's the right increase how much free cash flow we want to hold back for share buybacks or for dividends.
And those are alternative decisions or that you should -- you can make decisions between those 2 grow the dividend on a logical and sustainable basis.
I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Jim Sjoreen for closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you operator.
I want to thank Randy and others for their kind words and all of my colleagues here at Lincoln for a great run.
I really appreciate everything over the 30-plus years.
With that we want to thank all of you for joining us on today's call.
And if you have any follow-up questions please contact me or send us an email at lincolnfinancial.com.
Thank you.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for joining Lincoln Financial Group's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions).
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investors Relations Jim Sjoreen.
Mr.
Sjoreen please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
And good morning and welcome to Lincoln Financial's Second Quarter Earnings Call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about sales and deposits income from operations and liquidity and capital resources are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln's website www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to the most comparable GAAP measures.
Presenting on today's call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis.
Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
Lincoln reported another quarter outstanding results including a 13% return on equity and record levels of operating revenue operating earnings per share and efforts on their management.
Our strong performance is a continuation of good results generally driven by strong sales with attractive returns positive net flows equity markets driving higher AUM and related fees disciplined expense management favorable alternative investment income and pre-pays and active capital management including $150 million of share repurchases in the last quarter.
We also continued to make progress on our strategy to lean a little more towards the sales of products without long-term guarantees.
68% of total sales in the quarter were in products without long-term guarantees up from 59% a year ago and against a target of 70%.
We also upsized our VA reinsurance deal with Union Hamilton by an additional $4 billion covering sales through the end of 2015.
We did miss expectations this quarter in Group Protection.
Randy and I will touch on group results in more detail in a moment.
However I'd like to emphasize that we have the right strategy in place.
We’re taking necessary pricing actions and with new and strengthened leadership in place to address the issues I am confident that we’ll get back on track.
Let me turn now to the business lines starting with the Life segment.
Sales of our individual life products grew by 7% from a year ago excluding COLI.
These results benefited from continued strong sales of Indexed Universal Life Variable Universal Life and Term offsetting weaker MoneyGuard sales related to the rollout of the new product.
We expect MoneyGuard sales to pick up in the second half.
The diversification of sales by product and the returns on new business in the 13% to 15% range provides us with among the best risk return positions we have seen for the Life business.
Also our portfolio solutions is as broad and competitive as it's ever been.
We will take further steps to enhance our offerings to maintain our position as a leader in this phase.
In the next quarter we will introduce a survivorship version of our Indexed Universal Life solution.
Other product development activities include a new retail COLI product along with enhancements to our term portfolio later this year.
Based on market demand in our enhanced product portfolio we expect to see strong sales results in the Individual Life business for the remainder of the year.
Switching to our individual annuity business it was another quarter of great results.
Total annuity sales of $3.6 billion drove positive net flows of $800 000 plus.
Sales were down 15% from the prior year quarter.
However you may recall in the second quarter of last year we experienced an outsized lift to our variable annuity sales resulting from competitor dynamics.
We maintained our emphasis on increasing variable annuity sales without living benefits.
23% of the quarter’s VA sales had no living benefits up from 9% a year ago and a change made possible by the size and quality of our wholesaling force.
We supported this key strategy further in the second quarter with the launch of investor advantage our new investment focused VA product that provides an efficient platform for account value performance.
These actions continue to advance us towards achieving our organic goal of 30% of VA sales without a living benefit.
When factoring in the benefit of the reinsurance transaction 42% of VA sales in the quarter had no living benefits.
Also supplementing our sales mix strategy fixed annuity sales carried the momentum from the first quarter into the second quarter with sales up 49% from the prior year.
As we move forward our view of the annuity business remains unchanged.
The right volume of sales and the profitability and risk profile of new business continues to make the annuity business very attractive.
In Group Protection we continued to address our profitability challenges.
As I have pointed out before we started implementing pricing actions in mid-2013 aimed primarily at our employee-paid life and disability business.
These pricing actions are achieving mid to upper single-digit increases in both new sales and renewals.
We will continue to make pricing changes as needed in order to restore profitability.
Given the rate increases new business levels were off in the second quarter.
We continued to make inroads on our target strategy to further expand the employee-paid voluntary market.
In the quarter 43% of our sales were employee-paid up from 39% in prior quarter.
This is an important element in our overall strategy to achieve and sustain profitable growth in this business.
Achieving this shift in sales mix combined with ongoing pricing actions and strengthening our management team notably with the recent appointment of Dick Mucci as president have us on the right path to achieve our strategic and earnings objectives over time.
Moving to Retirement Plan Services it was a strong quarter with improved improvements in both sales and retention leading to positive net flows of $366 million.
Second quarter deposits of $1.8 billion were up 12% from a year ago driven by a 27% increase in first year sales.
Increased sales momentum is a direct result of the investments we are making in distribution and technology.
We are expanding our small market sales force now 25% larger than one year ago.
Tapping into strategic relationships with leading distributors like Merrill Lynch Wells Fargo and Ameriprise where sales have more than doubled from the last year increasing our competitiveness through an enhanced service offering enabled by our new platform.
These efforts along with the broader and deeper relationships are affording us new opportunities with more consultants.
Year to date 44% of our mid to large market opportunities are from consultants who previously did not give us a look.
Overall retention improved compared to the first quarter the result of focused retention efforts including dedicated retention teams and enhanced risk reporting.
We’re happy with the progress we’ve made and expect to see continued growth from our retirement business.
In distribution we had another strong quarters well.
Our broader and deep distribution franchise continues to be a differentiator enabling us to grow sales and shift our mix when necessary.
Our wholesale franchise Lincoln Financial Distributors reaches more than 65 000 producers annually a 3% increase from a year ago.
In addition to growing they were more productive evidenced by repeat producers growing 4% over last year and a 12% jump in the number producers selling multiple Lincoln products.
Moving to our retail franchise Investment News ranked Lincoln Financial Network as the second largest independent producer sales force in 2013.
We continued to grow our affiliated advisor base up 2% from a year now reaching over 8 500.
LFN drives more of Lincoln sales than any other firm currently at 13% share and we are committed to making investments to deepen this retail franchise.
You’ve heard me say this before distribution is a competitive advantage for Lincoln and we’ll continue to invest in and tap into the strength of our nearly 1 400 wholesale retail and work side professional across Lincoln who are telling our compelling story.
And on investment managements we continued to drive strong results while maintaining our portfolio’s high investment grade quality.
Our fixed income portfolio yield stands at 5.14% and our net unrealized gain is $7.5 billion or 9.5 % of assets which the long duration of our invested assets is driving our increase in that dollar amount.
Despite a persistently low yield environment our new money purchases of $2.4 billion were invested at an average yield of 4.5% 30 basis points over our average new money rate in 2013 with our yield enhancing debt program contributing 18 basis points to our new money yields this quarter.
Our approach to the yield enhancing debt has focused on less liquid asset classes where yields and the quality of underwriting remain attractive.
We also continued to commit capital to our alternatives program as we expand this strategy.
We maintained the flexibility for further growth as well as benefit from its portfolio diversification and higher income yields.
Let me close my comments by saying once again that we had a very good second quarter.
I’m confident that all the actions we are taking will enable us to achieve our long terms earnings growth ROE and diversification objectives.
And with that I will now turn the call over to Randy.
Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of $394 million or $1.47 per share for the second quarter up 16% from the prior year period.
The quarter demonstrates the strength of a diversified set of earnings drivers as account value growth in the Annuity Retirement and Life segments drove stronger earnings than more than offset weak results in our group business.
The quarter’s earnings benefited from $11 million or $0.04 per share of normalized items including $6 million in the other operation segment and $5 million in the life segment.
In addition to record operating earnings the quarter featured strong performance across most financial measures including topline line growth with operating revenues up 8% continued expense discipline with G&amp;A net of capitalized expenses remaining flat with the prior year.
Coupled with a strong revenue growth we saw G&amp;A as a percent of revenue decline 90 basis points from the prior year.
And book value per share excluding AOCI grew 9% to $46.97 while return on equity increased to 13%.
Turning to the investment portfolio income from alternative investments was in line with our expectations while income from bond and mortgage prepayments remained elevated during the quarter primarily benefiting the individual Life segment.
Strong prepayment income has been a recurring theme for the past few years which seems to be related to the environment that exists today.
While it is a difficult number to project we will not be at all surprised and in fact would expect to see elevated levels of prepayment income should the current environment persist.
Realized gain and loss performance was a net positive this quarter with $5 million of realized gains on investments while the hedge program had another great quarter of performance.
And the unrealized gain on our investment portfolio increased to $7.5 billion pretax or over $12 of book value per share.
Turning to segment results and starting with annuities.
Reported earnings for the quarter were $227 million a 16% increase over the prior year.
Operating revenue growth of 13% was driven by fee income which grew 24% as average account values grew 14% and the average fee assessment rate increased by 8 basis points.
Negatively impacting revenue growth was net investment income which declined 5.5% as prepayment income decreased from an elevated level in the second quarter of 2013.
Consistent with recent quarters the ROE and the annuity business came in at 26.7% for the second quarter.
The combination of strong equity markets positive net flows and strong new business returns provide an excellent back drop for the annuity business.
The benefits of that environment are evident in what was another outstanding quarter of results.
In Retirement Plan Services we reported earnings of $39 million consistent with both the prior year and previous quarters.
Revenues were flat year over year on lower net investment income while fee revenue increased 7% on higher assets under management.
Average account values increased 12% from the prior year period and ended the quarter at a record $54 billion.
Spread compression in the retirement segment remained fairly constant with normalized spreads coming in 9 basis points lower compared to a year ago and 3 basis points lower than the prior quarter.
Management actions to alleviate the effects of spread compressions are helping to partially offset the impact of current interest rate environment.
Efforts to lower guaranteed minimum interest rates over the last year have lowered the credit and interest rate by 4 basis points.
Return on assets for the quarter of 30 basis points and a pretax net margin of 35% were again at the high end of our expectations another strong quarter for the retirement business as asset growth driven by the strength of the equity markets offset the drag that spread compression is having on the business.
The Life Insurance segment reported earnings in the quarter of $148 million compared to $135 million in the prior year.
Earnings drivers were strong in the quarter with average account balances up 7% to $41 billion while Life insurance in force increased 5% to $629 billion.
It was a very good quarter for the Life business with several items contributing to the results including mortality returned to expected levels after negatively impacting the first quarter by $18 million.
As noted in the press release earnings were positively impacted by $5 million primarily related to expenses.
And the Life segment was the primary beneficiary of the prepayment income that I noted earlier.
It benefited the segment by approximately $6 million.
The Group Protection segment reported earnings of $2 million in the quarter down from $22 million in the year ago quarter and $20 million in the first quarter of this year.
Relative to the first quarter earnings were negatively impacted by two items.
Mortality was elevated due to the cleanup of claims related to unclaimed property.
This one time item impacted the quarter by $4 million and LTD claim experience which impacted the quarter $13 million.
LTD metrics were mixed in the quarter with elevated incidents while severity and recoveries were in line with expectations.
LTD incidents was driven primarily by more serious complex disabilities and more subjective medical conditions such as musculoskeletal and psychiatric issues.
We continue to investigate the quarter’s experience and as we learn more we will appropriately enhance administrative capacity to deal with any elevated level of these types of claim.
Our analysis also leads us to believe that the LTD claim experience is driven more by volatility than any trend downward in morbidity experience.
For example when we examined our incidents over the past few years we did not see evidence of deteriorating morbidity trends and incidence patterns.
Importantly as Dennis mentioned we are making progress on our plan pricing actions.
That combined with managing premium persistency to reasonable levels and at the same time driving our business mix to the higher profit margin employee-paid and voluntary segments are the right steps to restore profitability.
Regarding our earnings guidance for the year the quarter’s results increased the likelihood that we will be at or below $60 million of earnings for the year the low end of our guidance range.
Turning to capital activities.
We repurchased $150 million of our shares during the quarter moving us to $300 million for the first half of the year while statutory capital grew approximately $80 million over the quarter to $8.25 billion with RBC coming in at 503%.
During the quarter we sent $210 million of dividends to the holding company where we ended the quarter with $573 million of cash.
The strong statutory performance and the balance sheet coupled with the cash position at the holding company put us in a very good position to meet or exceed our full year guidance for $500 million to $550 million of share buybacks.
To summarize three of our businesses had excellent quarters that overcame weak performance in the group business.
And when you wrap it all together it was another strong quarter for Lincoln with topline growth of 8% disciplined expense management with solid improvement expense ratios continued capital deployment through share buybacks consistent growth and strength in the balance sheet with book value per share up 9% and a return on equity of 13%.
With that let’s move to Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Your line is now open.
I just wanted to start with group protection if I could.
Dennis.
In your prepared remarks you said that some of the changes that you have made give you some confidence that you are going to get back on track.
How long do you think it will take you to get back on track? Clearly the year-to-date earnings annualized is going to come in well below that 60 to 80 and Randy made some comments about that.
So what sort of time frame are we talking about here? Suneet great question.
Candidly not entirely easy to answer but let me give you some facts.
As we talked about last quarter and I guess even in the quarter before that we really have to re-price about $1 billion worth of employer-paid premium.
And it's going to take somewhere in the neighborhood or through the early part of 2015 to get that all re-priced.
And so the impact on earnings of that re-pricing will show up in the latter part of 2014 to some extent and then into 2015.
So it will take through the end of 2015 for us to get back on plan or excuse me back up to higher levels of earnings.
It could be a bumpy road in between now and then because we’re seeing some volatility as we’ve reported.
So I think it's 2015 sometime in 2015 when we’ll begin to see some back to more normal levels.
All right.
And then you talked about the mid to high single digit rate increases that you have been implementing since the middle part of last year I think.
Just based on what you know now in the quarter's experience do you think that rate that you took is enough? Or could we be looking at another round of increases that is required? We’re going to monitor that Suneet.
And we’re going to continue to make adjustments as needed.
So it's hard to say exactly how much more we’ll need.
We just have to see how the earnings continue to improve how our lost ratios change.
So we’re -- let me just say it this way.
We obviously have a rightful focus on getting the right ROEs on this business.
It's a function of premium increases.
It's a function of incidence changes.
And we’re working very hard at adding the staff that’s necessary to get that done.
I got it.
And then just one other one for Randy I think when you originally did the VA reinsurance deal either you or Dennis gave us some high level comments about the economics of that transaction.
Should we think about this new deal that you just announced or that you're pursuing to be roughly similar with that original transaction? The economics of the two tranches are roughly the same.
And as in the past we’re not going to get into the details of what those economics are other than say that as compared to a fully living benefit sale without the benefit of reinsurance maybe it's with the benefit of the reinsurance.
Maybe it's 1% or 2% off our internal rates of return.
All right.
So about in line with what did you before? Yes.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Seth Weiss with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
I had a question about the annuity segment and the market leverage within there.
Randy last quarter you gave us sort of a rule of thumb 1% increase in the S&amp;P provides about $7 million in annual earnings and I think the results this quarter are very much in line with that kind of market growth.
My question is if we see the market come down is the leverage on the way down the same as the way up? And the reason I ask because I believe you earn fees on guaranteed levels not asset levels.
So I would expect the leverage to maybe not be as much on the way down or the sensitivity to not be as much as the way down.
I’d appreciate your comments.
Thanks.
Sure Weiss.
Yeah you’re absolutely correct.
It's little less on the way down.
That sensitivity to movements is going to increase as the overall account balances in the annuity segment go up.
So our latest analysis would have a 1% movement now having about $8 million positive increase on the segment as opposed to a 1% decrease having roughly a $6 million to $7 million negative impact.
So there is a little more leverage going up given where we are in the quarter which is the primary driver of that.
Okay that's helpful.
And just in terms of sensitivity to hygiene costs hygiene costs have stayed low for some time and I believe that has a little bit of a positive bleed through on operating earnings.
Is that something that we should think of as maybe a potential pressure if we see hygiene costs increase volatility increase in the market? Or is the role on the hedge so it’s not all that you’re not going to see that impact sharply in any given quarter? Yeah.
What you would see if the hedging costs go up is that the extraordinary profitability that we even experienced in our new sales and we’ve talked about returns on new sales have been in the 20s would come down.
Now we don’t expect to be in the 20s forever I would say.
So I wouldn’t be surprised to see the margin you’re getting on that guarantee rider come down over time.
But we’re currently experiencing strong returns and we expect to see that for the foreseeable future I should say.
So yeah over the long term I wouldn’t be surprised to see that margin earning come down.
But for right now it's very strong and we continue to get those same excess returns.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
First on the disability business if you just talk about the success you're having in raising prices in the business.
How is it impacting persistency and a couple of years from now when are you done re-pricing the book how much of the book do you expect to lose? And then secondly just a comment on initial traction of the VA product without living benefit guarantees.
Let me ask Randy to talk about in a little bit more detail than I did about the timing of the repricing and then when that repricing flows into earnings.
My comment was about in 2015 was more about timing of the repricing.
Randy why don’t you talk how that affects earnings? Sure.
So the total amount of premium that we expect to be re-priced in this employer-paid segment is $1.1 billion.
Through the second quarter of this year we’ve actually repriced $300 million of that.
Now in terms of the earn to premium we’ve experienced in the first half of the year roughly $130 million of that premium has been at this increased level.
Of the $1.1 billion about $130 million of that we experienced in the first half of the year.
As we move throughout this year over the course of this year we will reprice in total $500 million of that $1.1 billion.
And about $300 million of that premium will come through in this year.
That’s how you should experience.
Then as you move into 2015 we’ll pretty much complete the repricing as we hit the 1/1 2016 renewals.
So you should see about $800 million to 900 million of that premium effectively repriced inside of our 2015 earned premium and then it would all be repriced in 2016 effectively.
Now in terms of the persistency on that our historic persistency is roughly 80%.
We’ve continued to experience persistence roughly in that range and I wouldn’t expect it to change in a material way from that.
And then on the VA I’m sorry.
Could you repeat the VA question? On the variable annuity product just an initial attraction of the new product without living benefits because other companies have tried to do that and they haven't had a lot of success.
So just wondering what you've seen so far.
We’ve built the -- first of all we introduced it in June so we don’t have any -- we saw a little bit of it but not a lot of it.
But we are very excited about it as a great mutual fund lineup.
It has asset allocations imbedded in it.
An important distinction from our competition is that it has an exit strategy which is not a guaranteed exit strategy but it’s our eye for Life pattern which permits distributions first to be in the nature of principal and then cumulated interest income.
Great lineup good asset allocation tools inside the product and an exit strategy which differentiates us from the competition.
And I’ll come back to it again.
The strength of our distribution is really powerful and it lets us make changes that maybe well just that we can make changes.
And let me come back to what I said a moment ago.
Without any new product we’ve moved the mix to 23% on guarantee.
I think we can get -- with a good product we can achieve over the next couple of years 30% on an organic basis.
And as you know in the meantime we have the benefit of the reinsurance deal to keep the -- we are actually ahead of our objectives on non-guaranteed VA business.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I have a question on interest rates and the sharp reduction we have seen this year.
Randy I know you're comfortable in being able to maintain your returns despite the low rate environment.
In fact this quarter we saw some sold improvements.
But perhaps you can also touch on how we should be thinking about interest rates given your upcoming actuarial review in the third quarter.
Nigel you were breaking up a little bit so I’m going to have to fill in the blanks on a couple of the words.
But as you mentioned we will be doing our third quarter actuarial study in the third quarter.
As part of that we’ll update our J curve.
I don’t expect a huge impact.
Rates are relatively similar to where they were but of course we’ll update that as appropriate as we get there.
But I don’t expect a huge impact from interest rates or a large impact from interest rates this year.
In terms of how interest rates at current levels are hitting our statements it continues to primarily be an issue for the Life and the retirement segment.
The Life segment is seeing its spread decline roughly 8 to 12 basis points or so on annual basis at current level.
And the retirement business is seeing its spread go down about 10 to 15 basis points on an Annual basis.
If you look at those numbers and what does that mean from a quarterly standpoint it’s roughly a $3 million or so headwind against earning with rates at this level.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR &amp; Co.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I want to ask a question about capital and liquidity and how that’s related to buybacks because so $150 million in each of the first two quarters has been good.
And I guess the first question is just to clarify the $573 million of hold-co liquidity.
Is that total or is that above your buffer that you like to keep? No that’s the total.
The targeted amount is 500 and we’re at 553 as we sit here today.
So I guess and you said you had $210 million of dividends that came up.
So is that almost all of the statutory earnings in the quarter? No.
As I mentioned in my script the stat capital grew by about $80 million during the quarter.
Total stat earnings were roughly $290 million in the quarter.
Okay.
And so that’s a good level I think.
Was there anything unusual in that stat earnings in the quarter? No.
As I mentioned we had a really strong first quarter.
I didn’t expect that level at the first quarter to repeat where it was roughly $370 million.
But I think that $290 million number is a reasonable number.
I think what you are seeing in there are a couple of items.
You’re seeing the growth in earnings right? So you are seeing our GAAP earning grow and some of that should transfer through to statutory also.
And then you are also seeing and this is especially on the Life side less strain given that the mix of sales has changed.
If you go back two years we’ve talked about a dollar of strain for each dollar of life sales.
And that number is roughly $0.80 per dollar of sales right now.
You’re seeing the benefit of the mix change and part of that is flowing in to earnings also.
Okay.
And then just kind of a final piece of that is the -- I think your commentary earlier in the year was that you were not planning on doing a reserve financing this year.
I guess I’d ask is that still the case? Because previously it seemed like at least to me that you kind of needed to do reserve financing to get the full buyback and maybe for the reasons you just explained you have a little bit cleaner kind of cash flow coming up to the insurance -- up to the holding company.
And so is that the right take-away and can we kind of hit the high end of that buy back without a reserve financing this year? You answered the question for me.
Yes I’m very comfortable with the earnings we experienced in the second quarter which support the share buybacks and everything else that we’ve done.
Now in terms of reserve financings I don’t expected that we will do one this year.
The sales mix given its change with GUA sales coming down quite a bit means that it’s roughly in other year sort of thing for us from a reserve financing standpoint.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Just first question for Randy any geography changes we should be thinking about as an area of focus into balance sheet review for 3Q related to either DAC or reserves whether it’s the equity cushion in DAC or interest rate assumptions? Anything we should be aware of? No big things that I would caution or alert you to as we go into the process.
We made substantial changes on the annuity side to the underlying assumptions around lapse and utilization last year and the year before.
I wouldn’t expect huge changes in those assumptions this year.
The corridor we are still inside the corridor or the area where we would look at it.
So I feel comfortable where we are there.
So there’s nothing in particular that I would alert you to as we go into the process.
Okay.
And then a follow-up on the disability claims issue.
So Randy you had mentioned you all had seen some more what you described as subjective claims in disability.
Can I take that commentary to mean that you are going to start emphasizing more claims adjudication and recovery and focus more on sort of the scrutiny of the legitimacy and ability to get claims off the books? Is that going to be an area of focus going forward? Let me try to answer that.
Claims management is a big part of the Group Protection business.
And as I’ve watched it over the years you see patterns.
For example if incidents starts rising the claims get higher it may take a little while to increase the staff and train the staff in such a way that the amount of claims that are being approved or disapproved get back to where they should be.
And this year Randy has mentioned that we’ve had more complex claims.
And sort of the same idea is that we’ll have to upgrade our staff and move people into the areas that are dealing with these more sophisticated claims.
So I can’t tell you whether it’s going to increase or decrease claims but over time these things will even themselves out whereas in a particular quarter you could see more less claims than you might over a longer period of time.
Hopefully that’s responsive to your question.
Yes it is Dennis.
And then my final question is just in lieu of what's happening to your own group benefits results and I would say several peers in terms of seeing some pressure on loss ratios do you still have the same level of interest in the M&amp;A? I know you've talked about group benefits being an area of potential focus.
Can you give us an update whether this has any bearing in terms of reducing your level of interest in M&amp;A in that area? It doesn’t reduce our long term interest in M&amp;A in the Group area.
This gets back to some of these strategies that we’ve been talking about.
Business with shorter term guarantees increase the amount of earnings derived from mortality and morbidity.
Of course the Group business is right in the sweet spot of that strategy.
I think when you are going through the amount of change that we are going through and by that I don’t just mean the pricing issues we’ve been talking about but the shift in strategy new systems new people building a stronger management team to deal with what has become for us at Lincoln a little bit more complex business it’s employee paid directions.
So I think when you have all that going on you might be a little bit more reluctant to add on top of it an M&amp;A integration.
So long term I’m still as excited of the business and the opportunity to grow it both organically and with M&amp;A.
Right now I think I’d be a little bit more cautious about trying to add more complexity to something that is already complex.
Thank you and our next question comes from Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much and good morning to everyone.
Randy towards the ends of one of your answers to a prior question you mentioned an $800 million to $900 million figure.
Would that be the amount of premium that was earning at the higher rate or that had been subjected to the higher rate but not yet earned? That would be the amount of our earned premium that we experienced for 2015 that would have been experienced at the higher level of pricing.
So it would be the actual earned premium that had been repriced.
Now when you think about that $800 million of premium you would lose some of that to persistency.
So you lose roughly 20% of that to persistency.
And then the remainder comes through at the higher rate.
Okay.
Now the other thing I wanted to ask about was to try to reconcile your comments.
Maybe they don't need to be reconciled.
Maybe they were consistent but I need some help about the disability business in the following sense.
You’ve talked at length in this call about how you have been and will be raising prices.
That's typically done when ab insurance company expects morbidity to deteriorate or morbidity is proving to be worse than you thought and the business needs to be repriced.
It’s underpriced.
But then -- and then around the same time you're talking about your pricing you're saying that you're not seeing a downward -- I'm paraphrasing now.
I don't remember exactly you what said but what I recall is that you said something along the lines of you are not seeing a deterioration in incidents a sort of deterioration in incidents.
I'm not quite sure I understand the point you're trying to make.
It's kind of nuanced I think.
I would think if you're raising prices it would be because you're seeing deteriorating morbidity including a deterioration in incidents.
Can you clarify how these two issues pricing and deterioration and the absence of a deterioration in incidents could be going on concurrently? In other words how could you be raising prices if you're not seeing a deterioration in incidents? Eric it’s Dennis.
That’s a great question and I’m going to put it into longer time frames than a quarter.
In the 2009 2010 period incidents was running lower in aggregate than it has since then.
And so Randy’s comments are more relevant to say the last couple of years.
But we were pricing based on a lower expectation that we had seen for a longer period of time 2009 2010 2011 and 2012.
They seem to have stabilized over the last 24 months incident has.
Again on a longer term basis we still see volatility quarter to quarter but we priced to a expected lower level of incidents and so we have to reprice to this new higher level of incident.
Does that help? It does.
What I'm hearing is that things are worse than you thought.
Why else would you be raising prices? But incident levels are stable now at a higher level than you anticipated but at a stable level nonetheless.
That's sort of what I am taking away.
Yes that’s right.
Okay thank you very much.
That’s helpful clarification.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Hey good morning everybody.
Just a couple of quick ones and then maybe a slightly bigger picture one.
One Randy I think you mentioned that alternatives were in line with your expectations.
Could you just quickly remind us what that was? We have a alternatives portfolio of about $1.1 billion right now.
And we expect roughly to get a 10% return on that and our returns in the quarter were right in line with that.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Got it.
Thank you.
And then with the new $4 billion of capacity what's the -- I guess at the end of June anyway what's the total capacity remaining through the year -- through year end 2015 on the reinsurance program? $6 billion plus.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Got it.
And then the last question is this.
I'm just wondering how should we -- how should I think about the excess returns on your new VA sales? You had mentioned consistently at least for the first half of this year maybe a bit longer that you are running in the low 20% range.
How does that compare with the level I guess you're actually baking into your pricing if we assumed hedging costs do over time in fact normalize.
I guess I'm trying to ask how much is lower hedging costs contributing to the higher return? Let me clarify the question about lower hedging cost.
Actually the hedging costs that we are experiencing today are closer to what we’ve seen over a long period of time with the exception of 2009 2010 2011 when volatility spiked up.
There is no way for me to be able to predict if the current level -- the historical level of volatility which matches what we are pricing today is going to be future level of volatility.
But that puts that into perspective I think.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Okay.
So I mean -- so I guess then are you pricing overall to a 20% plus-type of ROE on this business? Or is there something else that's in at least the current environment favorable relative to pricing such that it's giving you some kind of boost? No.
The pricing today on our variable annuity product fully loaded with the living benefits products --- actually the total portfolio is at about 20% for the new business.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> And that's the target? Yeah.
John nothing has changed in our approach to pricing the variable annuity business.
You’re not going to see us as the best product out there.
You’re not going to see us as the worst product out there.
It's a good product that our top shelf distribution channel can sell in the marketplace today.
So nothing has changed about how we’re pricing variable annuities.
So the returns we’re able to get today are reflective of the same approach to this business that we’ve always had.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Okay got it.
I just wasn't aware that the market was bearing overall that kind of return hurdle for new business but perhaps I was wrong.
Thank you.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Your line is open sir.
Please go ahead.
On the subject of variable annuity profitability first I just want to make sure I understand something.
On the new VA there is i4LIFE but there is no GIB floor.
Is that correct? Yes.
Good.
So then how do we think about the profitability of the new annuity versus the profitability of I don't know maybe what you sold last year that had guarantees on it? Obviously it is very profitable because the market went up but just thinking about it I would think more risk more return less risk less return.
Yeah.
Great return up into two areas.
First year return on equity.
I don’t expect to see a materially different return on equity between the non-guaranteed VA and the living benefit guarantee VA.
Now what you will see a lower return on is a lower return on assets on the non-guaranteed VA because you’re not getting that return on assets that you get from the guarantees.
So that’s what we would see with the non-guaranteed product is a lower ROA.
And then I don't know if you said this or not the operator came in and asked me my name or something like that while you were talking for some reason.
On the employee on the retirement plan side Randy did you talk about where gains were in terms of products sales sales growth in 401K or 403B or 457? Did you touch on that at all? We didn’t but we’d have to get the detail on that for you.
Okay.
All right.
I think that would be interesting.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Colin Devine with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
I had a question on the VA business.
Dennis you've executed very strongly in sort of growing out of some of the older more generous living benefit products a few years back.
And part of that you know Lincoln very quickly adopted the managed risk funds and they have been a big part of your story.
(Inaudible) Ameriprise commented they had about I think about $1.5 billion voluntarily move into their funds this quarter.
Perhaps you can give us an update as to how you have been able to change the risk composition of your block.
By how much you've seen moving in to the managed risk funds and if that's had a benefit on earnings.
And I assume it’s also materially lowering your hedge costs.
That’s a big question.
My recollection is that – and you were fading out a little bit there.
Is this Colin? Yes it is.
Yeah.
Colin welcome back to the business.
We’re happy to have you back on our phone calls.
I think in terms of the risk protected funds we probably have AUM in the $4 billion range.
Excuse me.
It's roughly -- the risk managed fund AUM is $20 billion to $25 billion.
That's what I thought.
And what was the question though Colin more specifically? Okay.
In their earnings release Ameriprise mentioned they'd had about $1.5 billion five moved over into those this quarter and it popped earnings about $10 million.
My impression has been that Lincoln has seen the same very strong voluntary adoption of those types of investments by their policy holders.
And I guess if you could clarify is that the case and is that helping your earnings? And I assume that’s also starting to make a meaningful reduction to your overall hedging costs.
The majority of our risk managed funds are coming from new sales.
We did have some move over.
We don’t see a pop to earnings when that money moves over.
But any incremental growth you’re getting today is pretty much from new sales.
Okay.
And then one other follow-up just Dennis perhaps you could just clarify for this for me when you talk about the new products and I guess from a competitive perspective I assume you're referring to Elite Access and Jackson's product which really opened up the old annuity business that we maybe knew from pre-2002.
Yes.
Can you just clarify about what’s different with your product versus Elite? You’d have to – that would be a complex analysis.
You’d have to go mutual fund by mutual fund asset allocation models.
We do have protected fund capacity or options inside of it.
So the underlying investments that are going to generate the opportunity Colin will take a lot of work.
Okay.
I just think it’s a non-guaranteed product.
So I just wanted to understand what the difference was.
Yeah.
The big difference is the – we think that our underlying neutral funds and all of the different asset allocations to repeat what I said are an improvement over what's in the market today.
Obviously people could catch up with us on those issues.
But we do have to repeat what I said earlier the exit strategy i4LIFE again non-guaranteed but are patented and Colin here is familiar with that as anyone on the phone on Lincoln for a while.
So that’s differentiator for us.
Again if I can come back to – we’ve already moved the dial without a product that’s specifically designed for accumulation from 9% of sales to 23% of sales.
We’re only trying to get to 30% of variable annuity sales on a non-guaranteed basis.
So we don’t need a lot more lift to get to 30% because we’re already at 23%.
So it's not just the product but we think the product is great.
It's the strength of our distribution force.
Thank you.
I’m showing no further questions and I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Jim Sjoreen for any closing remarks.
Thank you Operator.
And I want to thank everybody for joining us on the call this morning.
And as always if you have any follow-up questions please contact Investor Relations at our hotline number or Investor Relations at lfg.com.
Have a good day and we’ll talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's program and you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Speakers please standby.
Good morning and thank you for joining the Lincoln Financial Group's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all lines are in a listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions).
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investors Relations Jim Sjoreen.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
And good morning and welcome to Lincoln Financial's Third Quarter Earnings Call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about sales and deposits income from operations and liquidity and capital resources are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln's website www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to the most comparable GAAP measures.
Presenting on today's call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis.
Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
Lincoln had another very good quarter.
You read it in the news release but it is worth repeating that we achieved record operating earnings per share of $1.56 as well as record revenues up 9%.
These results are being driven in large part by strong sales positive net flows and market lift.
Each business showed sequential earnings improvement in the third quarter that being said our group protection business is still not where it should be but we continued to make progress particularly with pricing actions.
When analyzing our strong performance it is clear that our results tie to the demonstrated ability over time to deliver on our core strategies.
Notable among them maintaining a consistent presence in key markets which combined with distribution scale and a diversified product portfolio help us to grow sales where we want to grow them and on our terms.
A laser focus on repricing products were necessary to achieve acceptable return on capital actively managing capital as evidenced in the third quarter by repurchasing another $150 million of shares as well as the 25% increase in our common stock dividend.
And finally sustaining our financial strength which includes a healthy RBC ratio high quality and diversified general account portfolio and cash at the holding company.
Further our annual assumption review validated the DAC balances.
In the past few weeks equity markets and interest rates have experienced significant volatility.
But we have a strong franchise and our job is to mitigate effects of capital market shifts while at the same time growing earnings and ROE.
We have a good record of responding to challenging conditions and our guidance on these issues as they affect Lincoln has been spot on.
We will share more detail on our overall strategy at the next months Investor Meeting for now let me turn to the business segments starting with individual life.
Our individual life product sales were up from a year ago.
This favorable result reflects strong index universal life and variable universal life sales.
Growth was tempered somewhat by a 2% decline in MoneyGuard sales.
The product actions we took earlier this year are gaining traction which included updates to variable universal life index universal life and the launch of our MoneyGuard 2 product.
Total MoneyGuard sales reached $43 million in the quarter their highest level of the year.
The flex pay option which expanded our market reach by offering clients the opportunity to make periodic payments represented more than 40% of MoneyGuard sales.
We continue to focus on selling a diversified set of product solutions which gives us the flexibility to meet evolving consumer preferences and make new business less concentrated and returns in total less sensitive to interest rate volatility.
Our sales diversification coupled with returns on new business in the 12% to 15% range provides us with an impressive risk return position.
We are taking steps to expand and enhance our offerings furthering our position as a leader in this space.
We recently released our first ever survivorship indexed universal life and we will be implementing fourth quarter enhancements to our term products.
Our profitable and broad portfolio solutions combined with the power of our distribution has us well positioned for the future.
Switching to our individual annuity business it was another quarter of great results.
Total annuity sales of $3.5 billion drove positive net flows including $800 million from variable annuities.
Sales were down slightly from the prior year quarter when competitor dynamics resulted in elevated sales levels for Lincoln.
Our results in the quarter remained aligned with our objectives.
We have seen a slowing of fixed indexed annuity sales due to the lower interest rate environment.
We maintained our strategic focus on increasing variable annuity sales without living benefits with sales up 79% from a year ago.
The reach of our distribution the size and quality of our whole selling force and our product portfolio expansion all combined to advances toward achieving our organic goal of 30% of DA sales without a living benefit.
When factoring in the benefit of the reinsurance transaction 56% of DA sales in the third quarter had no living benefits.
Supporting this key strategy we launched in June our investment focused DA product Investor Advantage.
It has achieved an impressive $100 million of sales in the first 100 days which is a testament to the strength of our distribution and the demand for this type of product in today’s market.
As we move forward our view of the annuity business remains unchanged the right volume of sales and the profitability and risk profile of new business continue to make the annuity business very attractive.
Group protection; in group protection we are taking the right steps to improve profitability and to position our business for long-term success.
As I’ve stated before we started implementing price increases in mid 2013 aimed primarily at our employer paid life and disability business.
These pricing actions are achieving mid to upper single-digit increases in both new sales and renewals this year and we are again resting up our pricing targets as we renew 2015 business.
Additionally we are investing in programs to improve our disability claims management effectiveness which should further enhance our profit improvement.
Although success maybe uneven from quarter-to-quarter and it will take time we believe our profit improvement trajectory is positive.
New business levels were lower than last year for the third quarter and for year-to-date although our pricing actions are a factor industry sales are also down through mid year.
An important element of our strategy is to capitalize on the growth of the more profitable employee paid market.
We continued to advance our strategy with 49% of year-to-date sales coming from the employee paid segment up from 46% in the prior year.
We are pleased that our total earned premium is up 7% for the quarter and up more than 9% year-to-date with our growth being fueled by higher margin in new business and increased pricing on renewals.
In summary we are confident that we had the right programs in place to restore profitability and to sustain long-term profitable growth.
Moving to retirement plan services it was another strong quarter with continued stable earnings benefitting from the 11% growth in average account values.
Total deposits were down 13% from a year ago attributable to lower new sales in the mid large market which can be uneven from time to time.
With respect to the lumpiness of the business we were recently notified of a case termination due to an M&amp;A transaction which will occur by the end of the year.
The combined case size total was 4 billion of size where we choose not to compete aggressively.
Approximately 600 million outflows were likely lead to negative flows in the fourth quarter but with little impact on earnings.
We have a strong pipeline in the mid to large segment and we expect to return to positive net flows in the first quarter.
Our small market strategy continues to take hold and we are seeing the results.
Total deposits were up 24% from a year ago.
In part these results were driven by the expansion of our small market sales force which is up 29% from a year ago.
Equally as important as new sales is the growth we are seeing across all markets in recurring deposits which were up 8% compared to the prior year.
The driver of this growth is our focus on the participant through our high touch model which is increasing participation in contribution rates.
The number of participants contributing in the quarter was up 4% from a year ago and average contributions per participant were up 3%.
Also aiding our recurring deposits was a strong overall retention in the third quarter withdrawals at 8 percentage of average assets were down 2% as compared to a year ago.
This will remain a focus for us going forward.
We are happy with the overall progress in our retirement business and looking ahead we expect to see continued growth.
Distribution had another strong quarter.
Our retail wholesale and worksite teams continued to deliver outstanding results driving our core strategies to grow sales on our terms and shift our mix when necessary.
In Lincoln financial distributors we expanded our individual life sales organization by 12% enabling us to deliver above industry sales growth and again to drive the diverse mix of sales that I mentioned earlier.
Selling additional products through our strong producer base of more than 64 000 is a key strategy.
The number of producers selling more than one Lincoln product is up 16% and we are seeing good traction in several areas.
Most notably one third of both small market RPS and MoneyGuard sales are driven by our strategic partners where we have multiple products on their platforms and cross sell programs in place.
Shifting to Lincoln financial network our affiliated advisory network help steady at more than 8400.
Of note for the quarter total sales were up 3% delivering more Lincoln sales than any other firm.
Retail distribution is a key component of our product strategies and we are investing in capabilities to enhance our value proposition to advisors and their clients.
Our group distribution continues to be a valuable business asset beyond just sales with its strong performance and supporting the placement of higher price renewals.
Currently our combined group sales rep and enrollers count exceeds 350.
You’ve heard me say this before we’ll continue to invest in our already deep and powerful distribution with an eye on expanding our industry leading franchise of more than 1400 wholesale retail and work side professionals.
Turning to investment management we continued to achieve strong new money yields in light of the low interest rate environment investing $2.5 billion at 4.3% which is 180 basis points over the average 10 year treasury during the quarter.
Our disciplined AOM driven investment strategy has delivered a fixed income portfolio yield of 5.1% and about $7 billion of unrealized gains.
Additionally the flexibility from our yield enhancing debt program continues to help offset the low rate headwinds contributing 25 basis points in the third quarter to our new money yields.
Although the 10 year treasury had declined 20 basis points in the month of October our new money yield have held at 4.3% benefitting primarily from spread widening.
Our strategy of growing the alternative investment program is also contributing solid results with net investment income of $46 million during the quarter and 16% asset growth from the prior year.
We continued to achieve consistent investment results grow our yield enhancing strategy and improved diversification while maintaining a high quality portfolio.
As I close my remarks let me say again that Lincoln had a very good quarter.
Our strong performance came as direct result of our ability to deliver unclear and consistent strategies and I am confident we are taking the steps necessary to finish out the year on a strong note.
I will now turn the call over to Randy.
Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of $414 million or $1.56 per share for the third quarter up 16% from the prior year period.
The quarter’s earnings that was yet another record driven by strong performance in the annuity life and retirement businesses.
As noted in the press release we had normalizing adjustment of 12 million or $0.05 per share in the quarter primarily attributable to our annual review of DAC assumptions.
Similar to last year the DAC unlocking process had a net positive impact on the results.
In total this year’s DAC unlocking resulted in a positive impact of $31 million with $6 million of the impact reflected in operating income while $25 million occurs below the line in net income.
These results underscore the quality of the DAC asset on our balance sheet and reflect the rigor applied to establishing the underlying assumptions in the respective businesses.
The performance of other key financial measures remained strong including operating revenues up 9% to a record $3.4 billion while G&amp;A net of capitalized expenses grew 4.3%.
Book value per share excluding AOCI growing 9% to $48.23 and return on equity which increased to 13.4%.
The investment portfolio produced excellent results in the quarter.
Returns on alternative investments were particularly strong this quarter with our $1.2 billion portfolio earning an annualized return of 16%.
This contributed $10 million above our expected levels to the quarters result.
Income from bond and mortgage prepayments was again stronger in the quarter however as I noted on our last call that is expected in the current environment.
Net income for the quarter of $439 million benefitted from a few positive items including the unlocking I mentioned earlier that more than offset $60 million of net realized losses.
These strong net income results continue a trend that we have seen over the last few years with net income averaging 97% of operating income since the beginning of 2012.
Turning to segment results and starting with annuities.
Reported earnings for the quarter came in at $245 million which produced an ROE of 27% for the quarter.
Operating revenues increased 12% from the prior year quarter on a very strong 21% increase in fees on assets under management.
Sequential quarters of positive net flows and strong equity markets drove a 14% increase in average account values.
The only item of note impacting annuity earnings for the quarter was the favorable $12 million coming from the annual assumption review.
This is another great result and is a testament to both the quality of our annuity business and the assumption that underlie its valuation.
We believe the results are reflective of a theme that you have heard us talk about before.
That is a theme of consistency a consistent presence in the market place with a well designed product portfolio a consistent approach to risk management that you see in the results of our hedge program and a consistent and rigorous process to the establishment and review of assumptions.
I would also note that as we have gone through the assumption review process we have relied not just on our own experience but have brought in leading outside consultants to ensure that our assumption reflect the best data available.
In retirement plan services we reported earnings of $40 million compared to $33 million in the prior year quarter.
Revenues were up 1% year-over-year on higher fee revenue which increased 5% while net investment income remained flat reflecting the spread compression that the retirement business has been experiencing.
Average account values of $54 billion increased 11% from the prior year period.
Both the return on assets of 30 basis points and pretax margin of 35.5% improved from the year ago period and remained at the high end of our expectations.
The retirement business has been posting steady and consistent results with the underlying story remaining unchanged that is the growth in earnings from new business managing to offset the ongoing spread compression and producing a very attractive return on equity in excess of 16%.
The life insurance segment reported earnings in the quarter of $150 million compared to $140 million in the prior year.
We saw yet another quarter of consistent growth in the life segments earnings drivers with average account balances up almost 7% the life insurance in force increased 4% to $635 billion.
This growth in earnings driver is allowing the life business to overcome spread compression that is running at about 8 to 12 basis points per year in today’s interest rate environment.
Mortality was in line with expectations and the segment benefitted from 7 million of the alternative net investment income that I noted earlier.
The results of the DAC assumption review for life was similar to what we saw in the other segments.
A series of incremental adjustments with some pluses and minuses that in the case of the life segment netted to a negative $6 million.
This negative unlocking impact was completely offset by other small favorable items.
Overall it was a very good quarter for the life segments with underlying growth driven by profitable new business overcoming any headwind that low interest rates are creating.
The group protection segment reported earnings of $8 million in the quarter down from $23 million in the year ago quarter.
But up from the $2 million that we reported in the second quarter of this year.
While it is encouraging that we saw loss ratio improvement across all product lines relative to the second quarter earnings continue to be affected by adverse claim cost and long-term disability.
As a result group earnings will fall short of the guidance we provided at the beginning of the year.
Specific to LTD metrics were mixed in the quarter with recoveries driving the majority of the unfavorable experience of incidence performed in line with expectations.
Claims management will impact the LTD loss ratios that we report on a quarterly basis.
To minimize the potential volatility that it creates we continue to invest in the claims function adding staff as needed providing the training necessary to properly adjudicate the claims and recently installing a new claims management system.
We are pleased with the market acceptance of our mid to upper single digit price increases on new and renewing business this year.
And we are now targeting low double-digit increases for renewing business in 2015.
The combination of improvements in claims management price increases and premium growth which was 7% this quarter that will improve profitability overtime.
All that being said we will not be surprised by quarterly volatility consistent with what you’ve seen from other leading group insurers.
The bottom line for the group business is that earnings improvement will not be linear but with the actions we are undertaking we expect group protection to be a positive lever to Lincoln’s long-term earnings growth.
Turning to capital activities we refer just 150 million of our shares during the quarter moving us to 450 million for the first nine months of the year and announce a 25% increase in our shareholder dividend taking our annualized cash outlay for shareholder dividend to approximately 200 million.
Statutory capital grew approximately $80 million over the quarter to $8.3 billion with RBC coming in at 507%.
Statutory results are benefiting from the mix in our sales to let capital intensive products especially in the life business.
In fact I estimate that this mix shift is costing approximately 100 million less of annual new business strength than the mix of business that we were selling just a few years ago.
During the quarter we sent $175 million of dividends for the holding companies and ended the quarter with $572 million of cash.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter we expect the strong statutory performance in balance sheet towards in a very good position to exceed our full year guidance for 500 million to 550 million of share buybacks.
To recap some key points the statutory and GAAP balance sheets are both in a very strong position as evidence by record level of statutory capital strong RBC and holding company cash positions and no negative impact from the annual assumption review process.
We are selling profitable business with each and every business earning 12 plus percent IRRs on new business except for the annuity business for a new business IRRs are in the 20% range.
We are selling less capital intensive business which is favorably impacting statutory income.
We are producing positive annualized net flows that total better than 3% of our comp balances and the group business or earnings are still well below our long-term expectations is showing steady premium growth and gradually improving results.
With these items along with others such as the strength of the equity markets over the past few years combining together to swamp 2% the 3% headwind to earnings growth that low interest rates are causing.
With that let’s move to Q&amp;A.
Operator.
Thank You.
I am curious on commentary regarding the decision not to unlock GAAP for equity market reversions to mean assumptions and as of the second quarter I believe the buffer on the DAC asset or the amount that you would have released had you unlocked DAC was over $400 million.
I suspect that when you disclose this number in the third quarter 10-Q at this level is going to look quite similar.
As I believe this is the largest buffer in the last five years and with that as a backdrop maybe you could help us think through what level this needs to reach to trigger a positive unlock? Yes Seth the buffer remained largely the same in total across all the businesses that is roughly $350 million right now.
That’s really in line with where it’s been for the last few periods or really not a big change in the level of buffer it moves up some quarters moves down some quarters.
Really it is the thought that I have been talking about for some time now which is that we have a corridor process.
We still remain inside that corridor and so there really was not an obvious reason to unlock the return assumption.
Still very comfortable both with our long-term return assumptions and with the reversion to the mean process that we have the immediate reversion to mean process that we have.
So very comfortable with where we are and that was the thought process that we went through Seth.
Okay great and just to clarify on the corridor I know you have two different corridors.
When you say you are within do you mean the wider corridor or still within even the narrow corridor? We are towards the inside corridor pretty close to inside corridor but [ethically] [Ph] still slightly inside [Inaudible].
Great.
Thank you.
You bet.
Hey good morning everybody.
First Dennis you go in a little too fast for me can you go back over the case that was lost.
I think that was retirement plan services what those numbers were? The net negative flow in the fourth quarter will be about $600 million Steve and I said that it have minimal earnings impact because inside of that net number we have retained the stable value assets which offset -- and the fees on that offset the loss of record keeping revenue.
Okay so this was a -- what was the total size of it? The total size it was an M&amp;A deal so it was one of the situations where we have talked about sort of a market fact that’s going on is that a lot of the health companies are merging.
And so the two health companies’ plans assets in total were about $4 billion and that is the segment of the market because it’s been pricing to begin with and because oftentimes at that size you have to make specific changes to your activities that are costly.
So we don’t aggressively participate in that market.
Again we are south of that in target that we go forward this mid to large.
So that’s the answer.
Okay the $600 million is what you expect out from that just one case so that’s not your expectation for total outflow for the fourth quarter? It is pretty close to where do we expect to be in total but it is specifically the outcome.
Okay great.
And then if I can a couple of one offs that I am interested in particularly with regards to you is - the treasury I mean just a few days ago approved the use of annuities and target date funds and of course you’re a large annuity provider and you have RPS and I am wondering how you think about this? The product inside the retirement plan is slightly different then the individual product with respect to living benefits.
And we will need to manage in total our living benefit exposure and it’s not an earnings mix issue it’s more about the balance sheet capability to have handled living benefits.
So we think it’s a good development specifically the one that you are talking about.
We have a product to participate in that marketplace and we’ll manage the overall mix of our living benefit book of business.
And then one more if I can.
I am not sure it matters any more given the change of your life sales mix but thoughts on direct to report and the potentiality of AG47 Dennis? Yes so you’re referring specifically to the progress that’s being made in the discussion of the use of captives on a go forward basis.
Yes that’s right.
Lincoln has taken the lead with a couple of other life companies in discussing this with the regulators.
My first point would be that there is firm agreement that any changes will only be perspective changes with respect to captives and so the industry's existing captive arrangements will remain in place.
To your point the change in our mix reduces the need for us to do additional captive financings but remember we do them both on term business and guaranteed universal life.
So we will be increasing our terms sales a little bit more.
But in total we don’t have as much need for the captive arrangements as we’ve had in the past.
Having said that I think even the new rules that will apply to captives once they are put in place will benefit -– we will be benefitted by using captives to again even though it will be a smaller amount than we’ve done in the past.
Okay thanks Dennis very much.
Hi first on the retirement business.
Overall obviously your results are pretty strong but retirement flows were weak so just wondering if you could talk about whether this is just an aberration and a normal volatility in the business or is it related to the competitive environment especially in the large - mid to large case markets? And then secondly on your actuarial review can you just talk about what your interest rate assumptions are that are better than your accounts and how whether or not you changed them this quarter? Okay I’ll take the first question.
Let me emphasize the positives first and then come back to the mid to large which is more neutral.
We did see significant growth in small case sales.
We saw a significant growth in the recurring deposits in both the large case -- mid to large and small case so that’s all positive going in the right direction.
We had said in the past and it continues to be the case that the mid to large case marketplace is a bit more competitive than small case market.
And so it’s tougher to win.
Having said that I’d also take you back a couple of quarters and remind you that we upgraded substantially our technology but while we are in that phase of installing a new administrative platform the consultants -- I don’t want to say put us in a -- took us off the list completely but they didn’t advocate Lincoln as much when you were in a transition from one administrative platform as we were in that transition to a new administrative platform.
So just in the last 15 to 18 months the consultant community which is where you get your mid to large case business has put us on the list more often and I think that our position in the market is growing the recognition of Lincoln is growing and that we’ll see better results in the mid to large case market over time.
Having said that it’s still a very competitive market.
We have as I mentioned in my notes we have a pretty significant pipeline of sales but we have to get out and win that business to convert it into real sales.
So dynamics are different but we are optimistic that the steps that we are taking the investments that we are making will move sales and that [goes] [ph] up over the next several years.
Jimmy its Randy on your second question.
Point out that there are two aspects for the interest rate assumption.
First there is the process we go through every year where we reset the beginning rates and what’s other taker to the current interest rate environment.
And we did that we do that every year and we did that again this year.
That was a modest negative impact inside of the overall unlocking process.
So of course we did that.
Second component is the longer-term interest rate assumption 575 for life insurance 525 in the annuity business in our case and we did not change that.
We are still very comfortable with that long-term assumption.
I remind you that we agreed to that assumption over a period of many years 6 or 7 years I believe.
So Dennis mentioned we currently are investing money at 430 and when you think about our blending of 525 575 you are really talking about our rate increase expected over the next 6 years of 125 basis points or so.
You know that’s really not that dramatic an increase its inline with a lot of expectations I see whether I’m talking to our asset managers whether I am looking at expectations in Federal Reserve or for what the treasure rates may ultimately do or whether I am looking at the forward curve.
So very comfortable with long term rates.
We did not change them this year.
And then the increase in rates assumed is that gradual overtime or is it more front end of back end both? It’s a linear rate.
Okay that’s helpful thank you.
Thank you.
No the 350 is in total but it’s roughly 280 in the annuity business and 70 million in the other two businesses.
Okay because I am just looking at the page 46 of your Q from last quarter and I say 350 pretax annuities are we doing pretax versus after tax is that the difference? No I am talking pretax.
Those are the actual numbers this quarter.
You got to remember that we go through in the unlocking process and everything and those impacts can change modestly overtime.
350 total.
Okay got it.
And then on your comment about the strain the 100 million less of strain.
Frankly it’s good to see that finally coming through.
Is that in the quarter or that’s for the full year and is that a pretax or after tax kind of number? It’s an after tax annualized impact and simply that -- you remember in years past I’ve been very clear that the strain on new business life insurance new business is roughly a dollar for each dollar of sales.
When you look at what was the mix of business we are selling today it’s roughly $0.85.
So $0.15 of less strain for $1 sales and if you look at the level of life sales we have you get to $100 million of less annual strains.
I would also note that you really see in that and the results also.
So if you look at our DAC operating earnings year-to-date we are right about $750 million.
We were at $250 million in the third quarter and that’s up over previous year.
So you are really seeing that impact in our results.
And are you expecting that 100 million as we look forward over the next couple of years how much is -- how significant of a change are we going to see to that number or you kind of that’s your base line at this point? I am not going to go beyond saying that we have 100 million right now.
I mean the mix of business that we sell going forward we’ll be what it is.
But we’ve talked about the repricing of the products the fact that our mix today is less capital intensive lower level of GUR (ph) sales being the primary driver there.
Dennis talked about we will see term sales continuing about a little bit but I don’t think you are going to see a dramatic change.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just the last one on the re-pricing you know Dennis I think you’ve talked about 12% to 15% unlevered returns for most of your businesses ex annuities can you give us a sense of what interest rate assumption is sort of embedded in that 12% to 15% pricing return.
Let me come at it in a different way.
And say that the 12% to 15% of course is a curve in it and it has periodic payments in the pricing.
Even if you took today’s yield curve we’d still be in that range that I talked about.
Okay but I guess if we are assuming a rising rate environment eventually at some point down the road if you kind of pricing for current rates then obviously there should be some upside potential to that 12% to 15% unlevered return? Yes.
Yes you said yes right? Yes I am sorry I moved away from the speaker there.
That’s alright thanks very much.
Good morning few questions first one Randy within your separate accounts is the mix rate within durable annuities is the mix now roughly half equities half fixed income and balanced funds is that about right or can you tell me what it is if it’s not? Tom I don’t know the exact mix that way.
What I do know there is that our overall equity mix inside of all the funds they were as managed or directly chosen by the client is in the 65% range.
Then the balance would be in long-term bond funds or have some alternative investment options in there.
Got you so 65 equities and 35… Roughly.
Roughly okay.
And to circle back to the whole review process and future assumptions.
I guess the one that I still struggle with and maybe you could just help me think through philosophically where your head is at on this is assume separate account returns and the fact that I think Lincoln is one of the few companies that hasn’t reset the fixed income assume return component just given where rates are and I believe you’re still at 8 for a blended average long-term return assumption.
So how are you thinking about balancing out where we are with interest rates and why that assumption hasn’t been reset? Well it hasn’t been reset because we are very comfortable with our long-term earn rate assumption.
And I am not going to dig down into the pieces of fixed income or equity but overall our long-term rate assumption for the various cohorts of business range from 7% to 9%.
7% for the more recent business 9% for the older business.
Weighted average of those is 8.2% when you factor in the 14% immediate reversion to the mean that brings the overall average down to 7.4%.
So very comfortable with those levels.
In fact I’d looked at some recent proprietary information return information from across the industry and those numbers Tom are really not out of lack with any of our major peer companies.
So I am very comfortable it seems that they are right in line with the industry.
When I look at a high level and try not to get down into the weeds of this component there or that components this.
So once again very comfortable and it is consistent with what I see across the industry.
Understood.
Another question I had that’s been coming up recently is several European insurers and reinsurers who have big U.S.
operations have had mortality issues whether it’s embedded value or specific accounting charges.
There has been I would say significant weakness here.
And now you all just went through an annual review process and you didn’t find any issues can you help shed some light on what you think might be different for Lincoln versus some of these other competitors of yours? Well you know that in the first quarter this year we had elevated mortality talking specifically in – business individualized business.
Last two quarters mortality comes right along with their expectations.
So we invest pretty consistent with what we see historically typically the fourth quarter if you want to use history as your reference it would typically be a little better quarter for mortality.
So that’s -- our experience has been in line with what we’ve experienced in years past.
Inside of the assumption review once again I didn’t talk about assumption by assumption by assumption its particular impact.
We reset our mortality consistent with what our experience are these days.
And in total I talked about what the overall impact of the unlocking were.
So we haven’t seen a dramatic change in our mortality and I am not really familiar with what you are referring to in terms of what the European insurers are seeing.
But we’ve updated our DAC assumption for our experience today and the impacts are what I just talked about.
The Europeans having been flagging late 90s to mid 2000s issues in particular some guarantee -- some 10 year level term resets and adverse experience there and then they have also flagged incidence of increased suicides I’ve heard some of them have flagged.
So I don’t know if any of those issues you’ve noticed anything on any of those fronts.
Tom what makes it difficult for us to comment on your question is that we don’t know what mortality assumptions they had themselves in place at that time.
You recall there was a period of time where the direct writers were reinsuring a 100% of their -- almost a 100% of their mortality because the reinsurers were so aggressive.
It’s just very hard for us to comment on somebody else's experience because I believe it has an element of what they thought it should have been right.
Dennis that’s a very fair point and then that’s a good segue into my last question which is I know I think this is several years ago you all had put out some information that showed your actual to expected for mortality was exceptional.
I think it was in the 70% to 80% range and that could very well explain why you are not having issues because your accounting was very conservatively looking at that issue.
Do you have an update on where that stands actual to expected mortality? Actual to expected mortality experience of course it is going to bounce around year-to-year but there hasn’t been a material change from where we were two three years ago Tom.
So it is in -- Randy would you say in that 70% to 80% range its broad but is that directionally right? Tom I think somewhere along the way we recast the denominator so expect a level for the older business.
I mean talking about the really old business.
So I think factually if you look at those numbers it’s more like the mid 80s.
Mid 80s okay.
Thanks a lot.
You bet.
Thank you very much.
I wanted to just kind of dig into the group piece and just get some color or updates on a few items.
I guess one is just on the continued elevation of claims if you can kind of share with us whether that’s an incident or recovery or other item.
I think mainly between those two items that claims have been bouncing around kind of three last four quarters.
So maybe we could start there and just get a feel for how those items are evolving as you continue to address this block? Randy I think consistent with my comments that you continue to see some volatility from quarter-to-quarter.
This particular quarter as I mentioned the LTD experience on the downside was driven by recoveries that were little lower than we have been experiencing but on the other hand incidents that came right in line with our a longer term expectations.
I’ve got sort of the opposite of what you saw last quarter.
So you are seeing some volatility quarter-to-quarter.
The other thing I mentioned is just around claims management.
You think about what our core mission in claims management is it is too properly pay claims and then help people get back to work.
And as I mentioned we continue to do the things we need to do to make sure we can do that right.
We are growing as a company so we need to keep adding staff.
The nature of claims change all the time so we need to make sure we’re giving our staff the proper training they need to properly adjudicate clients.
And then we need to make sure they have the best tools available so we just invested in new claims management system.
So you are going to see quarter-to-quarter volatility but I think we are doing things we need to do overtime to make sure that we are getting the best outcome.
Is there a way I mean I guess your business is growing you mentioned that’s why you are adding claims staff is there a way to kind of quantify how much bigger the staff is on a per claim basis or per unit basis versus where it was before? You know Randy I wouldn’t look much different then what our premium gross was 7% in the quarter 9% year-to-date I believe.
And as we grow we’ll have more claims and we would need more staff to manage those claims.
Okay I was reading it as more like a build out of the staff but I guess you are saying it’s increasing with the size of the book? Absolutely.
Okay and then last I guess – I think that low double-digit price increases were expected there going forward.
I guess to me that seems a little bit higher than what we’d expect and what we are seeing from others.
Can I just get a -- get more color on how that’s going to phase in and how you think that might match up versus competitors? Sure as a reminder what I was talking about we have a big renewal book that comes in the first quarter of 2015 right.
So first quarter is our biggest part of the year.
And when you think about renewals so when we are looking at renewals for that period we are now targeting low double-digit price increases for that renewal book as opposed to the mid-to-upper single digit price increases that we have been targeting this year.
So that’s what I am referring to when I talk about low double-digit increases.
And I guess it’s pretty obvious but it depends when you are trying to compare that against what the other competitors are saying where they are starting from in terms of the need to increase prices.
Were they higher than us to begin with so again I think it’s something that’s very hard to mathematically compare.
Right.
I’d never said any price increase is easy but in total I believe you described the market as broad sweet accepting of the price increases that we are putting in the marketplace and that we are not seeing large swing and persistent difference.
Okay and another detailed question I may have missed this in the call but variable income or your non-core income from investments I think was higher in the quarter.
Did you quantify what that was kind of above plan for the quarter for the overall complex? First off I wouldn’t describe it as non-core alright.
So it’s part of what we do.
We have about $1.2 billion alternative investment book which is split between private equity and hedge funds that we’ve talked about a longer term strategy to grow about a little bit maybe another couple hundred million dollars over the next couple of years.
So it is core to what we do.
It added $10 million to the bottom-line in the quarter.
$10 million above what you would normally expect from that alternative book? Exactly right.
I should have clarified that above what we would normally expect.
Yes I know this is noncore but alternative is definitely the right word that’s what I was looking for thanks so much.
You bet.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Hi good morning everybody.
I had two questions one I just want to talk about indexed universal life for a few minutes or at least get your thoughts on this and it seems like this has become a much greater percentage UL that is of overall industry wide retail life insurance sales over the last couple of years.
And we’ve heard that regulators are starting to take a closer look at this product as a result and maybe some of the sales illustrations and practices now that it’s reached that level.
I know it’s not as big a percentage of your life sales but I am just wondering whether you are hearing that same thing and how you think Lincoln is prepared in handling some of the investment returns that are being illustrated? Let me sort of paint a broad picture.
Index universal life is a good product and by and large the illustration industry wide has been reasonably responsible but there is some outliers.
And importantly I think the illustration generalizing here that illustration that are being used today don’t produce much more upside than what the customers have actually seen over the last decade or two in this product.
Again I am being very general.
With the changes in the capital markets and how index UL is crediting your rate mechanism is being reviewed and is in fact it’s being looked at for the last three years.
And so it’s probably true that well let me say it differently what’s come out of this three year review is suggesting some guard rails here there and yonder to be more clear with the customer the range of outcomes that you might get from this crediting rate mechanism.
So I think it’s healthy for the industry to go through this.
There is some tug and pull between parts of the industry on what the guard rails should actually be.
But this is in my view a positive discussion from the perspective that we want to make sure industry wide that all of the illustration whether it’s for index universal life or whole life policies provides the customer with a range of expectations about the future that are appropriate and again that there is appropriate guard rail so that the industry in total is illustrating in a way that’s good for the consumer.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Got it okay and guard rails I assume Dennis that you mean you know limitations on the upper boundary on illustrated investment returns? Yes that’s exactly right and this is all very technical but over the last couple of years if a particular portfolio of investments produced much higher returns than the S&amp;P 500 and a particular company happen to have that as their base in what they conveyed to their customers what the customers got maybe exactly what was illustrated.
But I think in general the view is that we should sort of tighten the guard rails so that there is not sort of a unique situation that for a short period of time produced above expectation that over a long period of time you might otherwise see.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Very helpful thank you and then you also mentioned Dennis up front in your commentary a recent volatility in the markets and obviously managing Lincoln through periods like this.
I was thinking about the volatility over the last couple of weeks you know really related to some of the volatility managed funds and you guys have seen a good inflow of assets into your introduced volatility managed funds and I think the industry has as well.
I am just wondering more color than anything else over the last few weeks how have you seen those funds performing are they doing what you expect them to do such that you don’t need to have the hedging program as robust outside of the funds? I think the answer to that is generally yes but protected funds overlay on the underlying sub accounts is performing according to expectations.
And I would add to that the protective funds is volatility overlay is really a very long term concept.
And so in any particular quarter if the overlay produced better or worse results then you might expect that’s just a quarter.
And it is just as we’ve looked at and believe me we are looking at this very closely we are satisfied that the overlay is doing what it should do.
Again we look at it over a full market cycle not a two or three week period.
And the answer to your other question the overall hedge program is still robust and it is less costly because of the overlay to Lincoln.
And certainly I’m not trying to draw any conclusions from a couple of weeks but these types of products seem to be relatively early in their life cycle.
So just wondering how they performed what really was the most volatile period we’ve had in probably about a year so.
John Nadel – Sterne Agee &amp; Leach Inc.
Thank you.
Thank you operator.
We want to thank you for joining us this morning.
And hope you will join us again at our conference or analyst investors and bankers on the morning of November 20th.
The conference will be available via live webcast as will the conference material on the day of the event.
Again thank you and we will be available for any follow-up calls.
Have a good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and thank you for joining Lincoln Financial Group's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Chris Giovanni.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Karen.
Good morning and welcome to Lincoln Financial's fourth quarter earnings call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about sales and deposits expenses income from operations share repurchases and liquidity and capital resources are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln's website www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in this call including income from operations and return on equity to their most comparable GAAP measures.
So presenting on today's call are Dennis Glass President and CEO; and Randy Freitag CFO.
After their prepared remarks we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
And with that I'd like to turn things over to Dennis.
Thank you Chris.
And good morning everyone.
Fourth quarter results capped another very good year for Lincoln.
Operating EPS was up nearly 20% for the full year which enabled our operating return on equity to exceed 13% a 100 basis point increase over the prior year.
The ROE expansion is impressive considering book value per share excluding AOIC also grew 9%.
The majority of our business segments are performing well.
The 1 area where remain disappointed is Group Protection earnings but we are taking the necessary actions to restore profitability.
We recognize low interest rates remain topical given further declines in long-term rates and Randy will discuss this later.
However we remain confident that we have the internal levers and inherent product demand that will enable our positive momentum to continue even if low interest rates persist.
Specific to the fourth quarter results included a bit more noise than prior periods.
That said our actions were opportunistic and resulted in more favorable earnings and positioned us to deploy additional capital in 2015.
Importantly our strategic initiatives risk management rigor and the way we approach the marketplace and key constituents is unchanged.
Bottom line we remain a very clean story as we enter 2015 and we'll leverage our strengths to advance Lincoln even further.
Notable among them are consistent presence in key markets.
This affords us the opportunity to expand distribution partners and methodically grow sales in higher growth markets at attractive returns.
Robust capital management.
Buybacks totaled $650 million for the full year a 44% increase over the prior year.
Our active capital management strategy also included a 25% increase in our common stock dividend.
Broad balance sheet and risk management strength.
This was once again exhibited as we completed our annual goodwill and statutory cash flow testing with no material impact from either review.
Lincoln is well positioned with a healthy RBC ratio a high-quality and diversified investment portfolio ample liquidity and robust risk management programs.
Turning to the business lines.
Individual Life had another solid year particularly coming off very strong sales in 2013 and further product introductions.
Individual Life sales increased 5% for the full year and were flat in the fourth quarter.
Our diversified sales mix remains a hallmark of Lincoln and is driven by a broad product portfolio and disciplined risk management as no single product represented more than 25% of our total production this quarter.
Indexed Universal Life and Variable Universal Life sales continue to show good momentum as IUL posted a record sales quarter.
We're encouraged that our new MoneyGuard product continues to gain traction as sales increased sequentially throughout 2014 and totaled $47 million in the fourth quarter.
We expect this momentum to continue in 2015 as the product gets approved in a few more key states.
It is worth a reminder that our focus on sales is not just to grow but to grow profitably.
It is grounded in our goal to price our entire Life portfolio to achieve 12% to 15% returns.
Looking forward Life is well positioned for sales growth given the depth and breadth of our distribution relationships and product diversity.
Equally important we have a proven ability to capture new market opportunities and adapt to changing macroeconomic and regulatory conditions.
Before I shift to Individual Annuities I briefly want to mention that in December we entered into an agreement with a key reinsurer partner.
The agreement allows us to opportunistically recapture several life insurance treaties.
Randy will provide more details but we view the transaction very favorably given the positive economic benefits.
In the Individual Annuity business.
Positive operating leverage continued in the fourth quarter which led to another outstanding quarter.
Looking at the full year disciplined pricing contributed to steady earnings growth and strong returns and our comprehensive annual review validated policyholder behavior assumptions.
Our stable market presence once again resulted in over $3.3 billion of deposits in the fourth quarter and more than $0.5 billion of positive net flows.
For the full year total deposits of about $14 billion led to positive net flows of $2.6 billion.
Lincoln's consistent approach to the annuity market combined with product introductions designed to meet consumer needs has resulted in $16 billion of positive net flows over the past 5 years all on our terms.
One of the most recent product introductions was Investor Advantage our investment-focused product.
We continue to gain significant traction with fourth quarter sales up 74% from our very successful launch in the third quarter.
This has further accelerated a key strategic initiative which is to push our variable annuity sales mix to 30% nonliving benefit and 70% living benefit.
In the fourth quarter this still continued as nonliving benefit sales were 26% of total VA sales up from 18% in the prior year quarter.
Including the impact on sales covered by our reinsurance treaty nonguaranteed products comprised 58% of total VA sales in the quarter.
We remain optimistic and are confident we are positioned for growth in the Annuity business.
Demographic tailwinds still support product demand while the reemergence of several key competitors and continued macro uncertainty further validate the need for our diverse annuity product portfolio.
Our disciplined approach to risk management combined with product innovation will enable us to write attractive new business to add to our existing block of high-quality business.
Turning to Group Protection.
Weak earnings in the fourth quarter and throughout 2014 were primarily the result of poor long-term disability loss ratios.
As I have discussed in the past to improve profitability we are taking aggressive pricing actions primarily aimed at our employee-paid -- employer-paid businesses.
We also think most of the recent earnings pressure and volatility is related to our move to a new claim system in July and associated process changes.
As a result we see an opportunity to improve profitability as we refine the integration.
While I'm disappointed we did not show another quarter of sequential earnings improvement it is important to remember that our earnings recovery will not be linear and when margins are this low does not take much for earnings to bounce around quarter-to-quarter.
Fourth quarter sales of $250 million were down 7% for the same period last year and full-year sales were down 11%.
As a result of our pricing actions the employer-paid portion of our sales were down more meaningfully 18% in the fourth quarter and 19% for the full year.
Higher-margin employee-paid product sales were up 5% in the fourth quarter and represented 54% of quarterly sales compared to 48% in the prior year quarter.
Looking forward we'd expect sales growth to remain pressured as we take the necessary steps to return Group Protection margins over time to our 5% to 7% after-tax margin target.
Turning to Retirement Plan Services.
The earnings profile remains steady throughout 2014.
Total deposits for the quarter of $2.3 billion were up 42% from a year ago.
Full-year's results were a very good story with total deposits up 11% to a record $7.5 billion with strength in both the small and mid-to-large markets.
Recurring deposits contributed $4.8 billion in 2014 up 7%.
Favorable equity market performance resulted in a sequential increase in account values which now stand at just under $54 billion a 4% increase from a year ago.
Lumpiness in net flows is being driven by the natural ebb and flow in the mid-to-large case market.
This quarter deposits benefited from one large case.
But the large case termination we referenced on our third quarter conference call led to negative flows of around $900 million in the quarter and $880 million for the full year.
We remain optimistic in the growth outlook for our Retirement business.
Our core products are poised to grow faster than the industry while continued expansion into segments like the government and small market bode well for Lincoln.
In fact we are seeing several notable wins as we start the year and the pipeline looks strong.
Based on current visibility which goes out about a half a year we expect to see positive net flows in the first half of the year.
Turning to Distribution.
The depth and breadth of our retail wholesale and work site teams remain a competitive advantage for Lincoln.
Each channel continues to deliver outstanding results and create financial and strategic flexibility by properly balancing growth product diversification and profitability.
Lincoln's producer base stands at over 63 000 strong.
We've continued to gain traction on producer productivity with 1/4 of our fixed annuities and 1/3 of both RPS and MoneyGuard sales coming from our cross-sell strategies.
Client-facing distribution headcount increased 6% at both LFD and across LFG.
Importantly headcount grew even faster in key growth areas.
Notably small-market RPS was up 29% and Individual Life increased 10%.
At LFN our nearly 8 500 affiliated advisers is unchanged year-over-year.
However our registered reps are up 2% due to investments in our broker-dealer clearing platform and recruiting.
Looking ahead we'll continue to invest in Distribution as we seek to expand our extensive footprint to grow sales further in 2015.
And finally in Investment Management.
Our new money purchases of $2.2 billion in the fourth quarter were invested at an average yield of 4.3% which was 210 basis points over the average 10-year treasury.
This strong result was primarily attributable to investment-grade spread widening where underlying credit fundamentals remain strong.
As we discussed at our recent Investor Day conference we continue to utilize our yield-enhancing debt program which added 22 basis points to our new money yield this quarter.
The majority of our yield-enhancing debt purchases were in investment-grade assets which actually helped reduce our overall portfolios below investment-grade exposure from the prior year quarter.
Our business model is supporting our yield-enhancing debt program.
Our retail-focused product mix results in long-duration liabilities with predictable payment patterns.
This enables us to invest in less liquid assets an area where we have found incremental value and have additional capacity.
With recent volatility in the energy market it is worth noting that our energy exposure is consistent with our broader portfolio high quality and diversified; 95% of our energy holdings are investment grade with diversification across subsectors and issuers.
In fact our primary fixed income energy exposure had a net unrealized gain of over $700 million or 8% of book value at the end of January up from the year -- end of the year.
So in closing Lincoln had a very good quarter.
As I noted at our Investor Day I don't recall a time where our relative strength and industry position has been this strong which affords us the opportunity to grow and grow profitably.
This should enable us to remain a steady EPS growth story.
With that let me turn it over to Randy.
Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of $439 million or $1.67 per share for the fourth quarter up 19% from the prior year.
The quarter's excellent results capped off a strong year which saw full year operating EPS increase 20% to $6.03 another record for Lincoln.
As noted in the press release we had normalizing items of $53 million or $0.20 per share in the quarter primarily related to the recapture of previously reinsured life insurance business.
Excluding normalizing items EPS increased 12% in the quarter and 18% for the full year.
Looking at key performance metrics.
Top-line growth remains strong even excluding the reinsurance recapture with operating revenue up 6% for the quarter and 8% for the full year driven by positive net flows in every quarter of the year and the benefit of favorable equity markets.
Continued focus on managing expenses created further margin expansion as the 5% growth in annual G&amp;A net of capitalized expenses trailed revenue growth and improved our expense ratio by 40 basis points.
Book value per share excluding AOCI grew 9% to $49.29.
Operating return on equity came in at 13.1% for the full year.
Excluding normalizing items ROE was 12.3% in the quarter and 12.5% in 2014 an 80 basis point increase versus 2013.
The strength of our balance sheet is highlighted by record statutory capital of $8.8 billion and an RBC ratio of approximately 540% which gives us significant financial flexibility.
A couple other items of note specific to the fourth quarter.
G&amp;A was above our normalized level due to seasonality we typically see during the fourth quarter along with higher incentive comp expenses.
Higher G&amp;A was offset by favorable tax true-ups and the prepayment-related investment income that came in above our expectations.
As I noted in prior calls that is expected in this environment.
Net income results for the quarter were negatively impacted by the agreement to sell our media business and modest breakage in the VA hedge program.
Full-year net income was a strong story with realized losses coming in at just $47 million for the year while VA head results were very good with just $4 million of variable annuity net derivative losses.
This resulted in net income equaling 94% of operating income for the year.
Before shifting to segment highlights I would like to comment on the persistently low interest rate environment.
At our November Investor Day we noted that interest rates remain just an earnings headwind and we reiterate that view today even as rates have moved lower.
A couple of points.
Our 2014 year-end cash flow testing continues to point to significant statutory reserve adequacy.
In fact we have seen our reserve sufficiency increase from 2013 in both our base case and stress scenarios.
We showed at Investor Day that spread compression is abating even if we assumed rates remain flat at current levels.
Recall that we estimated flat rates with depressed EPS growth by 2% to 3% versus 4% to 5% in prior years but still enable us to achieve our targeted EPS growth rate of 8% to 10%.
Given the decline in interest rates since our November Investor Day we estimate we are likely to be at the top end of this 2% to 3% range but that capital management actions will provide a more favorable offset.
Now I will turn to segment results and start with Annuities.
Reported earnings for the quarter were $237 million a 19% increase over last year.
Operating revenues increased to 9% from the fourth quarter of 2013 as positive net flows continued and we benefited from further tailwinds in equity markets which combined drove an 8% increase in average account values that reached $122 billion at year end.
Returns in the Annuity business continued to be very strong and highlight the quality of our Annuity book.
ROI once again increased sequentially and ROE came in at 25% for the quarter and 26% for the year.
With record assets earnings and returns it was another outstanding year for the Annuity business.
As we enter 2015 our strong market position success with our relatively new investment-focused product our hedge program and recent product refinements should support further profitable growth in deposits and net flows.
In Retirement Plan Services we recorded earnings of $42 million.
Fourth quarter revenue growth was up 2% year-over-year and sequentially consistent with our annual revenue growth.
Account values ended the year at $54 billion up 4% versus the prior year as positive fund performance was partially offset by the net outflows that Dennis mentioned earlier.
The impact on interest margins from low rates has been most pronounced in RPS.
Normalized spreads compressed 11 basis points for the year.
This is at the low end of our prior guidance.
And looking forward we continue to expect spreads to decline by 10 to 15 basis points annually in the retirement business.
Return on assets of 31 basis points for the fourth quarter and 30 basis points for the full year were both at the top end of our long-term targeted range of 25 to 30 basis points.
While in total across the company the net impact of G&amp;A prepayment income and taxes was 0 the RPS segment did benefit from the sum total of those items by approximately $5 million.
Pretax net margin increased 250 basis points in 2014 to 34.1%.
Overall 2014 was a good year for the Retirement business despite consistent declines in interest rates.
Revenue growth outpaced expense growth resulting in a 13% increase in earnings and a 16.4% return on equity.
The Life Insurance segment reported fourth quarter earnings of $193 million or $140 million after normalizing items primarily related to the recapture of life insurance treaties.
Let me first speak to the recapture.
We reached an agreement in December with a key reinsurance partner in which we recaptured business within our current retention limits related to several life insurance treaties.
The recapture includes an established block of mortality risk written in the 1990s to early 2000s and increases our total face amount retained by 5%.
As we have noted in the past this is a period where reinsurers were particularly aggressive in their pricing assumptions.
With this transaction we capitalize on a mutually beneficial resolution with the reinsurer in which they paid us $500 million to recapture the business.
A few key points about the transaction.
The mortality assumption that we employed in assessing the deal is based upon current assumptions that reflect actual experience on the business.
Additionally we employed an outside actuarial consultant with significant mortality expertise.
The underlying experience on the recapture business is right in line with our current retained experience.
This is a book of business where we were often paying out less in reinsurance premiums than we were receiving backing claims from the reinsurer.
What we were able to do with this transaction is capitalize those future profits at a very attractive discount rate.
After establishing reserves and paying taxes we expect to take the $200 million of net proceeds and use it to fund incremental share repurchases.
When combined with the earnings impact of the recaptured business we expect the transaction to be accretive to annual EPS.
Turning back to underlying results in our Life business.
Earnings drivers remained steady for the quarter and year with average account balances up 6% to 7% and Life Insurance in force up 4%.
Normalized spreads in the fourth quarter were flat quarter-over-quarter and down 11 basis points for the full year.
Looking forward we continue to expect spreads to decline by 5 to 10 basis points on an annual basis in the Life business consistent with comments at our Investor Day.
Overall a solid year for our Life Insurance business capped by a very favorable economic transaction that we expect to be accretive to annual EPS.
The Group Protection segment results continue to fall short of expectations as we reported a loss from operations of $7 million in the fourth quarter compared to a gain of $11 million in the prior year.
Earnings remained negatively impacted by poor results in the LTD business driven by higher-than-expected incidence and lower-than-expected recoveries.
Let me put some numbers around those 2 items.
We typically do see higher incidence rates in the fourth quarter.
Over the fourth quarter 2014 incidence rate was 10% higher than the prior year.
Incidences more in line with historical seasonality patterns but have improved results by approximately $8 million for the quarter.
Claim recoveries were down significantly in the fourth quarter coming in about 20% below our expectations based on historical levels.
Although some movement in this number can be expected that sort of deviation is definitely out of the norm.
I'd estimate that the lower recoveries negatively impacted the quarter by $9 million.
Given our analysis of the higher incidence rates and lower recoveries we believe the introduction of our new claims management system and its associated process changes explain most of the deterioration and increased volatility we have seen over the last 3 quarters.
As we better integrate the new claims system into our operation we believe that we will see improved claim management effectiveness and thus improved morbidity and profitability.
Looking forward our outlook for the group business is consistent with prior comments including those from our November Investor Day.
Notably we expect earnings to improve but the improvement will not be linear.
The realization of benefits from our new claims system and continued focus on strengthening the group leadership team combined with significant price increases will be positive levers to Lincoln's long-term earnings growth and enable us to ultimately achieve our margin targets.
Let me discuss our capital position and capital management before we turn to Q&amp;A.
2014 was another great year from a capital generation and deployment standpoint.
Strong statutory performance with operating earnings of $1.4 billion allowed us to upstream nearly $1 billion to the holding company which led us to deploy over $800 million in 2014 up 42%.
This included $650 million in share buybacks and $168 million in shareholder dividends.
Holding company cash ended the year at $554 million.
Statutory surplus grew by $800 million to a record level of $8.8 billion.
And as noted earlier we estimate our RBC ratio will end the year at approximately 540%.
The increases are driven by the strong statutory earnings combined with the reinsurance recapture and other tactical activities in the fourth quarter.
As you may be aware we have $250 million of debt due in June.
We are comfortable with our current leverage and capital structure and do not see a need to delever further.
Finally let me comment on capital deployment expectations for 2015.
Given the strength of the balance sheet and strong capital generation trends I would expect share buybacks to exceed the $650 million we put to work in 2014.
We continue to view buybacks as an excellent use of capital but anticipate growing and maintaining a competitive dividend as well.
Bottom line returning capital to shareholders remains a priority for Lincoln.
With that let me turn the call over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Sean Dargan from Macquarie.
I'm just wondering if you could quantify the incremental amount of premium that will be coming back with the treaty recapture.
The 2 items as I mentioned on this book of business is that historically and oftentimes we had been receiving back more in claims than we were paying out in premiums.
The approximate premium number that we are paying out on an annual basis was roughly $150 million.
Okay.
And are there opportunities for more treaty recaptures out there with other counterparties? I don't think of these as opportunities.
We're in constant negotiations with our reinsurers over any number of items.
So I wouldn't say that there are opportunities as much as these things come up from time to time.
Great.
And then one about the investment portfolio.
You screen on the high side with exposure to energy.
Can you give us any updates on your exposure to energy the sector both investment grade and below investment grade? Yes.
We have about $9.5 billion in energy exposure.
And that's very diversified as I mentioned.
So by category in the independent category maybe 29%; midstream 28%; oilfield services 21%; integrated energy companies 19%; refining 2%.
So you can see it's very diversified by the type of energy company.
Specifically to answer your question 95% of our exposure or $9 billion of the $9.5 billion is in investment grade.
$0.5 billion is in below investment grade.
We have spent the last 2 to 3 weeks -- well actually the last couple of months going company by company at the $50 oil price.
And we don't see significant credit issues at $50.
And so we're quite comfortable with the overall energy portfolio.
And our next question comes from the line of Randy Binner from FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to try and ask you a question around the group segment and appreciate the data you gave there about being below planned.
But I guess I'm trying to understand a little bit better how the implementation of the new claims systems and I assume more staff hurt results if I heard that correctly or maybe hindered processes.
If you could walk us through that more I'd be interested.
Obviously and I don't think they would affect incidence but maybe how that affected recoveries and other elements of the claims process.
And also how far through that process we are before those things stabilize? Yes.
Thanks for the question Randy.
I think anytime you make changes in the claims area you're going to see some dissonance.
So specifically we were introducing making one of the largest changes again and we were introducing a whole new claims system.
The whole process around doing something that means that you are going to be spending a lot of time -- or your claims examiners are going to be spending a lot of time on training.
They're going to be spending -- that's both before the introduction of the system and after.
They're going to be spending time on understanding new processes that come with the new system.
They're going to be spending time understanding the new technology overall that they have in place.
So what happens is that your claims examiners need to spend more time doing those things.
And what happens as a result is that caseloads tend to tick up a little bit around the introduction of something like this.
There's a direct link between increased caseloads and increased loss ratios.
And that's what we've seen.
I think that we could've done a better job of managing the whole process around the introduction of the claims system and that's partly why we've seen some changes in management in the group business.
But it's that whole process that involves -- that is involved with introducing a new claims system the training the processes everything that causes caseloads to tick up which causes loss ratios to go up.
We're in the process of -- training should be ramping down.
The claims examiners should be fully trained on the new system.
We'll get the processes straightened out.
So I don't think this is a very long-term item.
But it's going to take us a little bit and you'll see a little more volatility along the way.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
So you're about a year into the launch of the new claims system and are you -- have you staffed up to keep the caseload more manageable for the adjusters? I think part of the fix is making sure that you're staffing up to appropriate level to handle any near-term volatility.
And we're doing some of that.
Research Division</strong> And is it year -- Randy at the year end is that -- how far are we into this process? Hard to give an exact measure.
But we're -- I think we'll be fully done with all these things we need to do the training the process and everything in about roughly the middle of the year.
Let me comment one more time on my view on the group business.
First start by saying the market is in large part accepting our renewal increases.
We're getting them on the business that we want to get them.
We're driving away the more unprofitable businesses where we've been asking for higher rate.
And I'm speaking specifically to the employer paid.
So management is in control of turning this business around.
There's nothing in the market that's going to stand in our way.
And candidly as Randy just mentioned management in part made some missteps to put us in this position.
But I'm confident that we're getting the price increases on our employer-paid business that we need.
I'm confident that the work to be done around improving the claims management process will be done.
And so I do see us getting back to our 5% to 7% margins in the 2015 2016 time frame.
And again I'm going to reemphasize I believe it's in management's control to get back to those numbers because the market is competitive but pricing is pretty firm in the marketplace.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Randy I wanted to circle back on the reinsurance recapture.
The way you explained it I think clears things up for me.
But I just want to make sure I got this.
So essentially what was the case was you had a I would say very favorable terms on terms of the treaties that you had just in terms of the premiums that you were paying out versus the claims you were paying out.
And so in order to unwind that favorable deal you're getting paid a lot essentially.
So what should happen here is your life earnings would go down.
But then said another way you're giving up some of those earnings by getting the cash and the stock gain.
But the buyback amount you're able to do with that incremental cash will more than offset the lost earnings in the life book.
Is that -- am I understanding that correctly just mechanically the way this is going to work? Yes.
That's a very good summary of the overall transaction Tom.
If you think about -- just a little more on this deal.
If you go back to the '90s and early 2000s when we repriced this business we expected to have reinsurance gains.
It was part of the pricing process.
At that time as I mentioned reinsurers were particularly aggressive it seems with their pricing assumptions that we -- that's what we anticipated.
So the profits we were experiencing on the reinsurance are not surprising.
And in fact they were part of our pricing.
But what we were able to do with this is look at that stream of expected reinsurance profits in the future discount them at a very attractive rate mid-single-digit sort of rate and that represents the $200 million that I talked about.
That's the statutory gain.
Now separate from that there's GAAP accounting.
So we bring this book of business onto our GAAP balance sheet.
We adjust our assumptions around cost of reinsurance et cetera.
And you saw -- so you see a slightly smaller gain on the GAAP side.
As I mentioned the life business benefited by roughly $53 million during the quarter primarily related to this transaction so lower than the $200 million.
So you'll have some -- essentially you've strengthened your GAAP balance sheet.
So you have a smaller impact on the GAAP basis.
So what I expect on the GAAP basis is a little more volatility not a whole lot of volatility because at the end of the day we didn't increase our retained amount by all that much.
In fact I think this deal took our average retained face amount from $175 000 to $185 000 so about a 5% increase.
So I expect a little more volatility not a huge amount of volatility.
And I don't expect a material impact on the overall life insurance earnings at the end of the day.
And as you said we'll then take the $200 million put it into incremental share buybacks.
Net-net overall I expect it to be accretive to EPS.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
So you wouldn't expect life earnings power to go down? You just expect a little more volatility around it? When viewed on an annual basis I mean they may go down a little bit.
But I don't expect a material impact.
Remember that this is roughly a 5% increase in their retained face amount.
So it's not a huge impact inside of what is a very large business.
So there may be some small impact.
But nothing that I would call material none that would spike out.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just my last question.
So I totally get why you're doing it.
If -- the main question I'm getting is it would seem to be not a great economic transaction for your counterparty.
And is it fair to assume that they would have a difference of views in terms of how they would expect this book to develop than you? I assume that has to be the question unless there's something regulatory or otherwise that is causing them to enter into this transaction with you.
All's I can say Tom as I mentioned in my script I think it was a mutually beneficial arrangement.
I don't know how they would characterize it on their side other than I think the negotiations were amicable and we reached a mutually beneficial resolution.
And our next question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on interest rates.
Randy you said in your prepared remarks much like at Investor Day that the current level of interest rates is not going to create a balance sheet issue; it's more of an earnings headwind.
I guess the question is at what rate level whether current or forward curve would we really start to see the balance sheet impact? Because it just seems like every time interest rates fall you focus us on earnings which I get.
But there has to be at some point where the pressure builds and we start to see something in terms of the balance sheet.
As I mentioned in my script I pointed out 2 specific items.
First I talked to our year-end reserve sufficiency emerging from the cash flow testing results and that remains very strong.
In fact it increased over 2013.
And I talked about the earnings headwind component.
There are -- outside of that you have some subset tests on the life insurance business that I think get pressured over time in a very low rate environment.
But as I mentioned that's over time.
I think it's easily manageable given the overall size of our capital position and balance sheet.
And separate from that of course we typically in the third quarter do an annual review of all of our assumptions.
So we'll have to look at our long-term interest rate assumptions.
And as I mentioned in the past the impact of lowering our long-term rate assumption 50 basis points is a roughly $125 million.
So we have those other things we have to think about.
I don't think there's anything that I would consider to be dramatic out there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then there were some comments in the prepared remarks about goodwill testing and obviously there was no impairment this time.
Can you give any color like you typically do in the K around where there may have been some pressure in terms of goodwill and where we might have seen or may see some impairments down the road? There -- and these will be similar comments that I've made every year at this time.
There are 3 main drivers of goodwill.
There's the amount of new business you're selling.
In the life insurance business we've seen our sales grow.
In the group business we continue to have very strong sales.
There's the profitability of that new business you're selling.
As Dennis mentioned we're targeting 12% to 15% in the life insurance business.
That's very strong profitability.
And we're also looking at strong price increases on the group side.
So we're looking at profitable new business that we're selling today.
And the third item is the discount rate what's the rate you're discounting those things.
I don't think that rates on acquired life insurance business and group business have really ever been lower in the marketplace.
So discount rates are very attractive.
So all 3 items that are the main drivers of goodwill are in very good shape today.
And so it didn't surprise me at all that when we went through the analysis there was no goodwill impairment.
Research Division</strong> Did any of the segments move to step 2 of your process? I think typically a couple of the segments have moved to step 2 almost every single year.
And I think that was the same.
Research Division</strong> Assuming it's life and group? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Seth Weiss from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Randy I wanted to focus on your comments on prepayments.
And I understand that in this low rate environment they're going to remain elevated.
If I look at your disclosures I think prepayments range from a 30 to 35 basis point contribution of spread in this quarter which is significantly higher than the 10 basis points of spread contribution from prepay if you look over the average of the last 3 years.
I understand that this stays elevated.
But this is a material delta.
Can you give us a sense of how you think about prepays going forward relative to this quarter and relative to the average of the last 3 years? As I mentioned it was a strong quarter for prepays.
Let me speak to the sum total of prepays and alternative investment incomes for the quarter because alternative investment income was lower than we'd expected during the quarter.
I mentioned 3 items in my script not normalized items but just 3 items that offset each other.
I mentioned prepayment the sum total of prepayment alternative investment income.
I'd estimate that was roughly a $50 million benefit across all the businesses for the quarter.
I also mentioned that we had some favorable tax items during the quarter.
That was roughly $50 million across the -- across all the businesses.
And then I mentioned that it was offset by G&amp;A.
And G&amp;A was driven by higher incentive comp expenses in the quarter.
We always have seasonality around projects getting done those sorts of things in the fourth quarter.
So there were a number of items that drove G&amp;A up to about $30 million after tax across the businesses completely offsetting those 2 particular items.
But focus in just on the investment income component it was roughly $50 million across the businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to clarify that G&amp;A.
When you say $30 million higher that is above and beyond the normal seasonality of the fourth quarter is that correct? Yes.
I think if you look at the G&amp;A net of amounts capitalized in the fourth quarter and compare it to an average for the full year you'd see what I'm talking about.
Just on the pre-DAC basis I think the fourth quarter is roughly $58 million higher than the average for the full year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up on the prepays.
And I understand the positive GAAP earnings element of prepays.
But from an economic standpoint why shouldn't we be thinking about these prepays as negative? Presumably you need to reinvest these funds back into the portfolio.
So wouldn't accelerated prepays lead to ultimately faster spread compression in the long term? Yes.
And it's been embedded in our spread compression now for the 4 years you've talked about especially in the last couple of years.
So there isn't a change in the trajectory or spread compression because of prepays.
It's just been in the results and in our guidance for some time now.
All else being equal I prefer that people didn't prepay.
I mean I would love the asset staying around.
But we're dealing with it.
It's in the spread compression expectations that I'd given you for the 2 main impact of businesses which is life and retirement.
Our next question comes from the line of Erik Bass from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just first want to ask a asset question to see if you could clarify the expected timing of the incremental buyback.
Is this something we should expect to be sort of front-loaded given that you have the cash on hand now? As I mentioned we expect to exceed the $650 million we did in the -- in 2014.
And I expect we'll go strong early in the year also.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And that -- exceeding that includes the benefit of the $200 million correct? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one question on retirement.
Can you just talk about the dynamics you're seeing in the market right now around competition and declining activity levels? Yes.
The marketplace is competitive.
And I think I'll broadened the question to all of our products.
We participate in competitive markets.
Specifically in the group business we haven't seen an uptick in competitiveness over the prior years.
But it continues there continues to be a lot of good providers that we're competing with.
We're seeing good results on our presentations and the number of presentations that we're winning.
So I'd just characterize it as a competitive market.
And across our businesses we have to stay relevant.
We have to focus on product distribution and technology to keep our competitive position solid and we're doing that.
So all businesses are competitive.
We don't see any extremes in any of the 4 businesses.
Again I felt for the last couple of years that it's a pretty solid market and in large part the competition is sensible and reasonable.
And we're competing just as we need to.
Our next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You spoke about like the changes in the claim management system for the disability business.
Can you also discuss what you're doing on the pricing side and how much of the books been repriced? When do you expect that process to be completed? In terms of how much has come through the pipeline and the repricing process from a financial merger standpoint it's roughly 30% as of the end of the year has come through in terms of the price increases.
Let me answer that.
In 2014 again we're talking about employer paid.
We're driving mid- to single-digit increases at targets in aggregate.
Renewal pricing in 2014 that's for new business is up middle -- mid-single digits.
But importantly we are running off unprofitable business where we pushed for higher rate increases.
As a result of continued pricing actions fourth quarter persistency was down a little bit not dramatically.
So middle single-digit for the business that's staying again predominantly employer paid.
And in the first quarter of 2015 we're going to drive that expectation a little bit higher sort of asking for low double-digit increases.
It's hard to predict what we will get.
But these are solid increases on the business that's staying and the renewal solid new business pricing.
And as Randy said it will continue to roll through the income stream.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly you've had some large lapses in the retirement business.
Do you have any visibility into more lower potential large case of withdrawals or lapses as you -- over the next couple of quarters in Retirement? Yes.
In aggregate our visibility right now is the expectation that we have positive cash flow in the first half of 2015.
And the goal further than that we just don't have enough actual information to give you a thought on that or an estimation on that.
And we have time for one more question today.
Our final question comes from the line of Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Quick follow-up on the reinsurance recapture.
Was any of the cash received already deployed in 2014? No.
2014 buybacks did not include any impact from the reinsurance recapture.
We're in closed period.
We can't be buying until a couple of days after today's meeting.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then could you maybe add a little color as to how it is that the spread compression outlook from November hasn't -- sorry let me start over.
How is it that spread compression today -- of your outlook today hasn't really changed beyond the guidance levels offered in November given the fact that we have seen the 50 basis point decline since November? Are you able to offset the compression by additional enhancements? Or is there something else that's driving kind of your ability to keep within the range? Yaron I'd say I think we have changed.
Remember at Investor Day we provided a range of 2% to 3%.
I think at the time we were at the low end of it the very low end of that range.
And as I mentioned in my script I'd say we're more at the upper end of that range right now but that that increase in the impact of spread compression will be more than offset by the capital actions that we've talked about.
So I think we are experiencing a little more spread compression.
It's just not up to the level it was a couple of years ago.
Research Division</strong> So put differently when you came up with the 2% to 3% range back in November you already contemplated a scenario yields would be at this level? No.
As I mentioned at the Investor Day we provided a range of 2% to 3%.
And we were at the low end.
In actuality with rates at that level we were at the low end of that range.
Rates are a little lower now.
There's been some offset from spread widening I would note.
But overall all-in new money yields are a little lower now.
And that means that the compression impact has now moved to the upper end of that range so from 2% to 3%.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Chris Giovanni for any closing comments.
Thank you Karen.
And thank you all for joining us this morning.
As always we're around to take your questions on the Investor Relations line at (800) 237-2920 or e-mail at InvestorRelations@LFG.com.
Thank you all and have a good day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Speakers please hold your lines.
Good morning and thank you for joining Lincoln Financial Group's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all lines are in listen-only mode.
Later we will announce the opportunity for questions and instructions will be giving at that time.
[Operator Instructions].
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Chris Giovanni.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Liz.
Good morning and welcome to Lincoln Financial’s first quarter earnings call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about sales and deposits expenses income from operations and liquidity and capital resources are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate you participating today and invite you to visit Lincoln’s Web site www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to their most comparable GAAP measures.
So presenting on today’s call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to question-and-answer portion of the call.
I would now like to turn things over to Dennis.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Operating earnings per share once again increased over the prior year quarter albeit slightly as operating earnings were down due to elevated mortality in Individual Life and poor Group Protection results.
We acknowledged at the start to the year was lower than analyst projections but we remain comfortable with our financial planning and business targets.
Our confidence is grounded on several fronts.
First and foremost our broad and deep distribution franchise consistently gives Lincoln a competitive advantage.
This enables momentum and long-term revenue and earnings drivers to continue.
We saw this in the first quarter with positive net flows in all of our businesses sales that benefited from various product introductions and refinements which resulted in good sales growth as the quarter progressed and has continued in April.
Account value growth in every business with total balances up 6% to a record 222 billion.
Next we have a rigorous approach to expense management.
This quarter we once again saw our expense ratio decrease from the prior year.
Also our balance sheet strength and capital generation enables us to complement organic earnings with capital management further augmenting earnings per share growth.
All of this supports key shareholder metrics several of which showed impressive growth this quarter including book value per share excluding AOCI increased 9% from the prior year.
The repurchase of 350 million of Lincoln shares a post financial crisis high and a 25% year-over-year increase in our common stock dividend.
While our ROE was negatively impacted by the earnings items I noted upfront our ROE in a seasonally weak quarter and in the midst of a continued turnaround in Group Protection exceeded 11% which is consistent with returns generated by our peers during 2014.
That being said we clearly expect our ROEs to recover and remain above peers.
Let me now turn to our business lines starting with annuities.
Favorable equity markets and positive net flows led to a 7% increase in our average account balances and another solid earnings quarter.
Our consistent market presence continues to produce quarterly sales in the $3 billion range and positive net flows.
Variable annuity deposits of 2.7 billion decreased 8% from the first quarter of last year but we are encouraged by the sales momentum we saw over the course of the first quarter.
To provide some context average daily sales in March were up 15% compared to January and February and this trajectory has continued in April.
As a result we expect quarterly annuity sales to exceed 3 billion in the next quarter which should also enhance net flows.
We remain focused on pushing the percentage of variable annuity sales from products without living benefits to 30%.
This quarter we reached 27% up from 19% in the prior year period making the seventh straight quarter of sequential increases.
When factoring in the impact of sales on sales covered by our reinsurance treaty non-guarantee products comprise 58% of total DA sales.
Our consistent market presence and proven track record of offering valuable customer solutions that also enable Lincoln to achieve good returns and managed risk still holds true today.
In a DA marketplace that remains rational we are confident we are positioned for growth.
Turning to Individual Life total life insurance sales in the quarter were 153 million a 6% increase from the prior year quarter.
With one of the broadest product portfolios in the industry we continue to deliver growth with a diversified mix of sales and by selling more products without long-term guarantees.
This quarter no single product represented more than 29% of total production down from 32% last year and 62% of our sales did not have long-term guarantees up from 59% in the prior year quarter.
Equally important within each product we have different features and options that enable our distributors to expand consumer reach but also give Lincoln another tactic to diversify risk.
An example of this is our MoneyGuard product where roughly half of our sales this quarter were flex pay and the other half single pay.
This reduces interest rate sensitivity.
Focusing on individual life insurance sales decreased 2% in the quarter however similar to my prior comments around variable annuity sales we are encouraged by the sales momentum we saw in March and the carry through to April.
Also of note most products contributed to this momentum.
COLI and BOLI sales were 14 million in the quarter compared with just 3 million in the prior year quarter.
Our outlook and appetite for COLI and BOLI has not changed as we will remain opportunistic.
Overall sales here need to meet the same 12% to 15% return hurdle we target for our entire life portfolio.
Looking forward while we did see a bump in mortality which Randy will speak to later we expect profitable sales growth in 2015 given the depth and breadth of our distribution relationships and product diversity combined with prudent underwriting.
Turning to Group Protection Randy will touch on our operating earnings loss shortly.
The lack of earnings improvement is disappointing but does not change our expectations of approaching our target margins toward the end of 2016 to 2017 timeframe.
We are beginning to see traction on the actions we have been implementing and are encouraged by the underlying pricing and claims management trends.
We remain focused on taking pricing actions aimed at our employer-paid businesses and enhancing claims management to restore profitability.
First quarter sales of 56 million were down 13% from the same period last year.
Our pricing actions continued to put downward pressure on new business opportunities particularly in the 1 000 plus market which historically has been a more competitive segment of the market.
Looking forward we see sales growth remaining pressured as we continue to push for rate increases.
In Retirement Plan Services earnings were impacted by some spread compression though we are encouraged by underlying business drivers.
Notably we returned to positive net flows.
Flows of $115 million improved significantly when measured against outflows in the fourth quarter and prior year quarter.
Positive net flows in the first quarter is consistent with our year end outlook that called for positive net flows for the first half of 2015.
Our optimism and visibility now extends through the third quarter.
A few pieces to this outlook.
First our pipeline is strong.
This should benefit first year sales in the next couple of quarters.
Also our expectations around retention remain favorable.
We attribute this to our constant traded effort on improving planned sponsor and participant experiences.
We remain optimistic in the growth outlook for our retirement business.
Longer term our core markets are poised to grow faster than the industry while continued expansion into segments like government and small markets bode well for Lincoln.
Turning to distribution the depth and breadth of our retail wholesale and worksite teams continues to differentiate Lincoln.
We currently have over 1 400 client facing professionals up 4% versus the prior year.
The number of producers selling Lincoln products is 63 000 strong and 26% of them are cross-selling up from the prior year.
As we have discussed in the past our large distribution force enables our mix shifts.
For example our focus on growing variable annuities without guarantees.
We now have almost 13 000 producers selling BAs without guarantees up 26% from a year ago.
At Lincoln Financial Network we had 163 experienced advisors choose to affiliate with Lincoln this quarter which puts our advisor network at more than 8 300 including a 2% increase in registered reps.
Spending a minute on Investment Management our new money purchases of $2.8 billion in the first quarter were invested at an average yield of 3.8% which was down from the 4.3% in the fourth quarter primarily driven by the drop in treasury rates as well as an asset mix which fluctuates from quarter-to-quarter.
We delivered a 186 basis point spread on new money over the average 10-year treasury which is strong and consistent with our historical experience.
Our yield enhancing debt program continues to add value to our core investment strategy and added 12 basis points to new money rates in the quarter.
Income from alternative investments was 8 million for the quarter which was below the prior year’s quarter as well as our historical average.
This result was driven by headwinds from our energy exposure which we believe has stabilized.
Before wrapping up I want to briefly discuss the Department of Labor’s fiduciary standards proposal.
As you have heard from other management teams this is a voluminous and complex proposal and like most financial service companies we are reviewing the proposal to understand all of its potential implications.
As with all pertinent regulatory matters there is a process and the details are very important.
We will be very engaged express our views as well as collaborate with various industry trade groups.
In the end there likely will be some change.
We believe companies with scale a broad set of product offerings and a strong and diverse distribution franchises with a proven ability to pivot in response to marketplace or regulatory changes will be best positioned to navigate changes.
Clearly we are confident on all these fronts and expect it to once again differentiate Lincoln.
In closing I recognize the year started slower than many expected.
However I do not expect seasonal fluctuations in mortality to define our year.
Our franchise remains a competitive advantage while our sales and flows outlook are strong.
Both will enable our long-term revenue and earnings momentum to continue.
I will now turn the call over to Randy.
Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of 352 million or $1.35 per share for the first quarter up 1% from the prior year.
Consistent with first quarter results the past few years [indiscernible] by 30 million compared to 18 million last year.
As you know we do not normalize for mortality as it will fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter.
However we felt the deviation relative to our expectation was large enough that it should be mentioned.
Looking at key performance metrics the top line continues to show healthy mid-single digit growth with operating revenue up 5% for the quarter driven by another quarter of positive net flows and the benefit of favorable equity markets.
We remain focused on managing expenses which again drove margin expansion as the 4% growth in G&amp;A net of capitalized expenses trailed revenue growth.
It is also worth noting the elevated expenses which I attributed to seasonality in the fourth quarter did normalize.
Book value per share excluding AOCI grew 9% to $49.70 an all-time high.
As Dennis noted operating return on equity came in at 11.2% negatively impacted by the adverse mortality and poor results in Group Protection.
Our balance sheet remains an important source of strength which gives us significant financial flexibility.
Net income results for the quarter were negatively impacted by 28 million for variable annuity net derivative losses and 10 million of losses within our general account.
Now I will turn to segment results and start with annuities.
Reported earnings for the quarter were 239 million an 11% increase over last year.
Operating revenues increased 9% from the first quarter of 2014 as positive net flows continued and we benefited from further tailwinds in equity markets which combined drove a 7% increase in average account values that reached 123 billion at the end of the quarter.
Return metrics whether measured by ROA or ROE remain strong.
ROA increased three basis points versus the prior year and stands at 78 basis points while ROE came in at 25% consistent with the fourth quarter.
We continue to expect profitable growth in deposits and net flows which will add to our record asset levels and drive further upside to annuities earnings.
In Retirement Plan Services we reported earnings of 35 million.
First quarter revenue growth was up 1% year-over-year.
Account values benefited from positive net flows in the first quarter along with favorable equity market performance.
As a result account values increased sequentially and ended the quarter at 55 billion up 5% versus the prior year.
Normalized spreads compressed 13 basis points versus the prior year quarter consistent with our expectations for spreads to decline by 10 to 15 basis points annually in the retirement business.
Our return on assets was 26 basis points for the first quarter within the 25 to 30 basis point range we have discussed in the past.
Turning to our Life Insurance segment earnings of 111 million were down as a result of the fluctuations in mortality.
26 million of the quarter’s adverse mortality hit the Life Insurance segment versus 18 million in the prior year quarter.
As we have discussed in the past our focus on retaining more mortality exposure combined with the business recaptured at year end should lead to some increase in quarterly volatility.
Looking at mortality experience in the current quarter and understanding that we don’t yet have complete information we do believe the severe winter weather and flu season likely played a part in our experience consistent with comments made from others in the industry.
It is worth noting that we typically have seen seasonally high mortality in the first quarter only to see mortality improve over the course of the year.
To provide some context Individual Life’s first quarter earnings for the past couple of years have averaged 20% of full year earnings.
So while Life’s first quarter results were once again negatively impacted by elevated mortality we expect that when viewed over more extended period of time experience will be in line with our longer term expectations.
It is also worth mentioning that our outlook for the business we recaptured at year end has not changed.
Notably it will have a modest negative impact on Individual Life earnings and slightly increase our quarterly earnings volatility but be accretive to EPS given the benefit of incremental share buybacks.
Turning quickly to the life earnings drivers average account values were up 5% with average in force base amount up 4% both consistent with recent performance.
Normalized spreads came in around 166 basis points down 5 basis points from the prior year once again in line with our expectations.
Group Protection fell short of expectations as we reported a loss from operations of 6 million in the first quarter compared to a gain of 20 million in the prior year.
The earnings do mask significant sequential improvement in key metrics.
Our non-medical loss ratio improved from 81% in the fourth quarter of last year to 78% this quarter.
Importantly our disability loss ratio declined nearly 10 percentage points to 80 [indiscernible] process and is evenly split between the decrease in claim incidents and higher recoveries with both improving by approximately 10%.
These positive earnings drivers were offset by a few negative items including accelerated amortization of DAC and a portion of the elevated mortality I noted upfront.
In terms of the accelerated amortization of DAC this was primarily due to our extensive re-pricing of policy renewals.
This reduced earnings by approximately 10 million when compared to the fourth quarter.
With the first quarter our heaviest renewal period the amortization impact is greatest in this period.
Looking forward although we expect amortization to be up versus prior year quarters we do not anticipate the 10 million I noted for this quarter to recur in subsequent periods of 2015.
Bottom line we do expect earnings to improve but continue to caution that the improvement will not be linear.
Before moving to Q&amp;A let me comment on a few other items of note.
Given our strong year-end capital position and the benefit from the reinsurance recapture we accelerated capital management in the quarter with 350 million in buybacks.
We continue to view share repurchases as an excellent use of capital and expect to exceed the 650 million we’ve put to work in 2014.
Returning capital to shareholders remains a priority and as a result we expect to go to the Board in a few weeks to ask for an increase in our share repurchase authorization consistent with our past practices.
Statutory surplus stands at 8.5 billion and we estimate our RBC ratio will end the quarter at approximately 515% down from year end as we paid 400 million in dividends to the holding company.
Holding company cash ended the quarter at nearly 800 million.
Finally in March we completed a $300 million debt offering the proceeds which will be used to retire the 250 million of debt due in June.
We remain comfortable with our leverage and capital structure.
So wrapping things up earnings came up a bit short to start the year but we remain very confident looking forward.
In addition to the strong franchise highlighted by Dennis we are encouraged by our belief that elevated mortality in the first quarter is driven by seasonality consistent with our past experience in prior years and that we will see better mortality in Individual Life results over the remainder of the year.
The improvements we saw in underlying disability trends that led to a meaningful sequential decrease in our disability loss ratio and finally the strength of our balance sheet and strong capital generation which allows us to continue actively deploying capital.
With that let me turn the call over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Your line is now open.
Thanks and good morning.
First question on the DOL for fiduciary standards I appreciate that it’s still early days but I just wanted to get a high-level sense maybe from Dennis how you think this could impact your annuities and RPS business? And then specifically related to annuities could this move the industry back towards offering more living benefit guarantees in order to improve the value proposition of the variable annuity? Thanks.
Yes Suneet I think it is complicated and there’s lot yet to be revealed in terms of the final changes here.
I do think if you don’t mind I’ll repeat what I said in my remarks and that is that we believe there will be some change but we think that Lincoln because of our scale broad set of product offerings and strong and diverse distribution franchises with a proven ability to pivot in response to market or regulated changes will be able – will therefore be able to navigate through whatever comes down the road.
But having said that let me dig a little bit deeper into your question and first talk about annuities.
So one of the big issues one of the overarching issues in this document is how agents get paid fees versus commissions.
It’s worth noting we currently offer fee-based products that meet the fiduciary standard of providing investment advice.
As an example our BA products are already set up to be sold as fee-based advisory products so we already have taken action.
We’ll continue to respond to changes be it through law or needs and preferences from our distribution partner.
So that’s important.
Sticking with annuities we’ve always been known more for our non-qualified competitive positioning due to our patented Eye for Life income feature specifically VAs 58% of what we sell is non-qualified and 42% are qualified and we think this is probably a little better than the industry average.
With respect to nonliving benefits we don’t think there’s going to be any reduction in the pace of our growth in that product.
So that’s a specific answer on that as well.
And then finally on RPS there’s a lot of issues.
I think the bigger retirement companies have touched on them.
I think our bottom line is we think that we’ll be able to respond to changes and we may have to make some changes in the way we do business.
But we don’t see this as a significant hurdle for continuing to grow that business.
And let me just stop there.
Okay that’s helpful.
I did want to ask another one on captives.
Just in terms of what you’re hearing around regulatory review variable annuity captives if you can update us on that.
And then also maybe for Randy if you can remind us how you – what kind of assets do you have in the captive letters of credit exposure those kinds of things? Thanks.
Yes let me start by reminding all of us that we just finished – we being the industry and the regulators – a long thoughtful process around captive regulations for A Triple X and Triple X and that turned out pretty good both from a regulatory standpoint and from the perspective of the industry.
So I’m kind of encouraged by the fact that we just went through this with them.
Once again Lincoln is taking sort of a leading role in the discussions with respect to VA captives.
Once again good news in terms of the process similar to what the regulators did on A Triple X Triple X.
They are hiring a couple of outside consultants to bring more perspective and help them as they look at this issue.
In this case of VA captives the difficulty is that you have a regulatory regime that is more on a book value basis and you have economics of the policy more on the basis of fair market and sort of more GAAP economics.
So the companies have to choose and we’ve talked about balance sheet risk they have to choose between hedging to protect yourself or to build assets to pay future claims.
And then you can at the same time protect against some potential swings in I’ll call statutory capital calls related to extreme economic scenarios.
So I’m optimistic that maybe we’ll be able to craft a solution with the regulators that sort of mitigates this tug and pull between that economics.
And maybe this is being a bit optimistic we won’t need VA captives if we can get that at all if we can get that problem solved.
So the process is underway.
I’m encouraged with what I hear being said by the regulators and what they’ve already accomplished and we’ll see where it turns out.
Suneet hi this is Randy.
We remain very well positioned from an asset standpoint in the VA captive.
I believe at the end of the quarter our assets exceeded our hedge target by roughly $1.5 billion so I think that’s a story that continues to differentiate us as a company.
So very well positioned from where we sit.
If you remember and Dennis sort of described it in his discussion the main risk around this is the difference that can emerge between statutory liabilities and economic liabilities in certain economic environments.
It’s really only that hot economic environment which is primarily a big spike in interest rates which would cause us to use anything but the hard assets that we currently use today.
So what makes up our current hedge assets it’s the value of the derivative assets we hold some bonds that we hold in there but we’re currently using what you would describe as soft assets.
Got it.
One last one for Dennis.
In terms of your regulatory discussions I mean I think on Triple X and A Triple X the regulators took a view of sort of a prospective approach to this as opposed to a retroactive.
Is that your sense in terms of having an approach VA captives or is it too early to tell on that? Thanks.
All the conversation is around prospective.
I think if you look back historically in the insurance industry the regulatory framework very seldomly do make things retroactive.
Clearly in the specific case of A Triple X Triple X there was no retroactivity but I would hope that it would be forward-looking but I can’t say definitively if it will or won’t be because we’re not that far down the road.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Krueger with KBW.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
One quick follow up Randy.
You mentioned the 1.5 billion of net assets in the captives.
Can you tell us what the RBC impact would be if you did consolidate the captive at this point? Yes it’s not something we look at on a regular basis but it continues to be the same story which is no negative impact on our LNL RBC or life insurance company reported RBC if we were to bring our captives back in.
Okay got it.
Then I want to move to capital management.
In the past you talked about an interest in group benefits M&amp;A.
Would you feel comfortable making an acquisition in that space right now if the right opportunity presented itself given the challenges that you’re working through in your own business? Great question.
What we’ve said in the past was the following and our attitude hasn’t changed which is we’d like to increase morbidity earnings at the right time and probably within acquisition.
We’re not ruling out an acquisition now but because of the difficulty we’re having with our core business it makes it harder to get over the hurdle of doing an acquisition.
And then finally quite clearly anything we do in terms of acquisitions has to be measured against other sources of capital such as buying our shares back.
So open-minded but at the moment things would have to – at the moment there’s some impediments.
Not saying that we wouldn’t do something but it’d be harder to do it.
Okay.
And then just last one is the – I guess where do you feel like you could bring your RBC ratio down to in an M&amp;A – if you were to do a larger M&amp;A transaction is around 450 still the right way to think about where you might be able to bring that to? Ryan I think it’s the nature of the M&amp;A deal you do.
If it was a group deal I think that’s probably a reasonable estimate.
I think the way we’ve talked about this in the past is sort of on our balance sheet we probably have capacity to do 750 million or so of M&amp;A with existing capital from the balance sheet.
But again I want to reinforce this issue that continuing to focus on share buybacks is a high priority for us.
And that when we talk about excess capital it’s different as to whether you use that excess capital for share buybacks or for acquisitions in terms of the split because when you do an acquisition the capital stays in the company whereas share buybacks the capital goes out.
So the excess capital can’t all be used for share buybacks whereas morbid could be used for acquisitions.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Seth Weiss with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Thank you.
A clarification question on the $30 million adverse mortality hit.
Just want to make sure this is relative to expectations for a seasonally higher 1Q.
Is that correct? That’s sort of relative to our baseline expectations for a full year.
So if you were to look at an average quarter during the year 30 million would be what’s over and above that number and it’s really sort of consistent with what we’ve experienced in the past.
If I look at the A to E in the first quarter of this year it’s really no different than the A to E for the first quarter last year.
So we didn’t see anything abnormal in the seasonality.
We just continue to grow and retain more business and I think that’s why the number is bigger than last year’s.
Okay.
Thank you.
And if I can move on to group and maybe a little bit more granularity here.
If I were to normalize for the accelerated amortization and maybe add in a couple million more for mortality attributed there we get to modest profitability but still under $5 million under a 1% margin.
And last quarter you spoke about new claims management causing some pressure on incidents and recoveries but expectations to improve those claims management issues within the next 6 to 12 months.
So could you speak about what claims management pressures you may have felt this quarter? And how progress on shoring up those issues is going? Sure Seth.
You remember the original issues around claims management process arose when we installed the new system in the middle of next year and that caused average caseloads per examiner to go up and some of the new process changes that went in place really caused sort of a backup.
So we had some things that we needed to fix.
As we said it would be something that we’d fix as we came into the second half of this year.
We thought we’d be where we needed to be.
I think we made significant improvement in this quarter and that really drove the significant improvement you saw on the disability loss ratio as I mentioned it improve nearly 10 points with a lot of that improvement directly attributable I believe to some of the improvements that we made in the claims management process.
We still have a ways to go.
Specifically I think we have more work to do on bringing average caseloads down per examiner.
I think that’s still to come.
But we made a lot of the process improvements bringing in support for claims examiners for instance whether that’s nursing support whether that’s support at the managerial level or whatever it is.
So we made a lot of process and supportive improvements but we still have more to go I think before we get to where we need to be.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then if I could just do one quick one on capital absent M&amp;A how should we think about bringing that RBC ratio down over time which at 515 I think is still quite high relative to peers? Yes I think it’s still high and I think as we’ve said in the past the way we’ve been deploying capital we expect it to come down.
There have been some items which have been favorable whether it was the impact of the reinsurance recapture in the fourth quarter or some favorable experience we had last year in the RMBS re-rating process for instance.
So there have been a number of things that have been favorable.
But the way we’re distributing capital we continue to expect it to come down 10 to 15 10 to 20 points a year somewhere in that range.
Okay.
Thank you.
You bet.
[Operator Instructions].
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
First question is just on the adverse mortality this quarter.
Can you comment on whether – or what impact you saw from the recapture block this quarter? Did that contribute to the weakness? And if so how much? Hi Tom.
Yes I mean it contributed overall to the elevated mortality experience.
So as we mentioned in bringing in that book of business we expect it similar to experience for the rest of our book and we saw that.
As I mentioned overall we had an actual to expected experience.
In this quarter that was very similar to the first quarter of 2014.
So there was no big impact from that.
Doing the recapture increased the average pay size of our policy and was going to create a little more volatility.
And in a quarter where you have bad experience that increased mortality – that increased volatility means you’re going to have more claims more bad experience and we had that the 30 million versus the first 18 million we had last year.
So there’s really no differentiated impact from the recapture business compared to what we’ve experienced in prior years first quarters.
Got you.
So Randy essentially contributed its fair share as a percent of the total block but nothing beyond that.
Is that a fair characterization? That’s a very fair characterization.
Okay.
And then one follow up.
Dennis the comment you made on living or VA sales outliving benefit guarantees.
I guess my question there is what percent of those sales are coming from qualified sources? Is it similar to your overall mix in the low 40% range? And would you see those sales as potentially vulnerable or potentially getting overhauls just considering the value proposition that maybe harder to prove under a fiduciary standards threshold? Yes.
Tom let me repeat the question.
What percentage of our nonguaranteed business is coming from qualified plans? That’s right.
Yes.
Yes.
The answer to that is about 25% is coming from qualified plans and 75% from nonqualified plans.
Got you.
And do you think that 25% just considering what’s happening here and understanding the technicalities of the proposal are yet to be determined but if you think about the spirit of what’s being proposed here would you expect that 25% potentially going away? Tom that’s a very specific question and it’s actually a question that is probably more appropriate for the broad distribution organizations.
We have such different alternatives to sell product different distribution systems and channels as you know.
We don’t think that there is a serious risk to that 25% but it may end up coming from different channels than it’s coming from today.
So I fall back on our comment; broad diversified distribution and our proven ability to pivot whether it’s for customer preferences pricing issues or regulatory reasons.
And that we’ll find a way with this distribution organization to continue to grow our sales.
Okay.
Thanks Dennis.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
To follow up a little bit on Tom’s question.
I’m interested in Dennis if you know what percentage of your VA sales are in upfront commission as opposed to fee-based? Let’s just put it that way simply in today’s world how are they sold? I’m trying to get an answer for that.
The vast majority are sold on an upfront commission basis.
Okay all right.
And then Dennis you talked a little bit about sales and how they picked up -- Could I come to back and again reinforce the fact of how you pay the agents is really determined by our distribution channels.
And as I said in my prepared remarks we are prepared already to sell these same VA products on a fee basis rather than frontend commission.
And I want to reemphasize another point which we’ve made in the past living benefit products are an important part of the retirement planning for Americans and I don’t see the demand for that product going away even though companies and distribution organizations may have to adjust the way they get it to the consumer.
Yes I mean it’s a good point it’s not really your issue.
You can do it.
It’s a question of whether broker-dealers and brokers want to sell that way or not and maybe they’ll have to.
That’s all out there.
That’s why I asked the question.
Yes.
Then during your prepared remarks you talked about how sales both in annuities and life insurance picked up in the quarter and continue to pick up.
I think you referenced maybe new products or revisions to older products if you could fill that out please.
Yes.
I think the pickup is just related to better productivity.
There’s been some product changes but I wouldn’t attribute the pickup to any specific product.
There’s nothing dramatic in the way of product improvements that would have led to that 15% pickup.
I just think we got off to a slower start and we are now back to where we think we – at levels of sales that are more consistent with our expectations for the rest – a higher level of sales.
Okay.
And the last one for Randy I think maybe Seth asked this question.
The adverse mortality that you’re pointing to is relative to what you’d expect on average for the year I get that.
But we know the first quarter is always going to have bad weather.
We know the first quarter is always going to have the flu season.
We’ve got the Christmas effect.
So do you have a sense Randy of generally speaking what you would consider to be – I’d call it normal adverse mortality in the first quarter relative to your baseline? Steven obviously it’s a tough number estimate if you ask me to sort of take a stab at it.
Maybe half of the $30 million was sort of over and above a normal seasonal first quarter but put a big confidence interval around that number.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Thank you.
I guess first just wanted to follow up on I think what Seth was asking on the group side.
Have recent results changed your view at all? And how long it will take group results to recover and get back to I think the 5% to 6% margin you’ve targeted on a run rate bases or do you think we’re just seeing more negative noise related to DAC and mortality and other factors? But kind of the timing of getting to the end goal hasn’t changed.
I did say in my remarks that our expectations with respect to getting back to good margins haven’t changed.
It’s sort of late 2016 early 2017.
So that hasn’t changed.
Got it.
And that’s on a run rate bases? Right.
Okay.
And then maybe can ask one on variable annuities.
Have you seen much impact from increased competition as other insurers have rolled out both new guarantee features as well as products without living benefits or is your sense that the overall industry demand for VAs just ticked down a little bit in the first quarter? I think it ticked down a little bit in the first quarter as you say.
We continue to have what I would refer to as rational competition in this market right now.
Different companies have different value propositions different features and at any point in time you can see one get ahead of the other for whatever reason.
But we’re a strong consistent player.
We’ll continue to get our fair share.
Overall our cost and benefits are consistent with what other carriers are offering.
And then we have the benefit of the best wholesaling force we think in the country.
So we’ll continue to get our fair share on our terms.
Got it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Humphrey Lee with Dowling Partners.
Your line is now open.
Thank you and good morning.
Just want to follow on the Group Protection in terms of the DAC amortization.
Can you just remind us in any given years what is the pattern for your renewal cycle? So what percentage of your business in any given year go through the Jan 1 renewal cycle versus the July 1 cycle? So let’s start out with your typical group contract is about a three-year guarantee so maybe about a 30-year business is going through in any particular year.
Inside of that roughly 60% or so is in the – 50% to 60% is in the first quarter of the year.
And then our second biggest would be the third quarter for July renewals.
Okay.
And then how should we kind of compare the July renewal to kind of the rest of the pattern? Yes I think as I said 50% to 60% the first quarter and the third quarter is the next biggest.
But look the bulk of it is in the first quarter of the year and I’ll just stop right there.
Okay got it.
And then in terms of your retirement plan services Lincoln’s always been a strong player in the 403(b) market.
Can you remind us what percentage of your retirement plan services is in the 403(b) market? What percentage of sales are in the 403(b) market? Maybe an account value as well? About 50%.
Okay.
So basically those would not be affected by the fiduciary proposal but the remaining 50% could potentially be affected? Again in the retirement business and in our other businesses we think we can continue to sell through regulatory changes.
And some of the regulatory changes by the way that are being proposed we’ve been advocates for some time.
So yes I understand there’s a lot of questions about it.
There’s going to be change.
Good companies will react to the change.
Both the living benefit products and retirement products are in big demand and so it’s more about the changes you have to make in the selling process commissions and so forth to be able to meet the demands of the marketplace which will continue to be strong.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Your line is now open.
Hi thanks.
Mostly asked and answered so I’m going to ask a DOL fiduciary follow up for Dennis.
There’s different pieces of the conversation here that have talked about kind of a potential I call it bifurcation of regulation whereas if a product is affected by ERISA it would have a certain set of rules.
And then if it’s not it wouldn’t.
So whether it was Humphrey’s question or I think Tom Gallagher’s before that on qualified nonqualified.
I guess my question for you Dennis is your perspective on it if that would be feasible in the market that you would have kind of dramatically different rules based on whether it kind of hit the ERISA format or not or if there would be kind of a lowest common denominator effect in the market and everyone would – everything would kind of migrate towards whatever the new rules are pushed by DOL? Yes I think that’s hard to predict.
Okay.
I thought I’d take a try at that.
The one other follow up I had just on the group piece was after this first quarter renewal how much of the book has been re-priced since you started the last major re-pricing initiative? I think it was 30% at the fourth quarter.
Do you have a figure of how much has been re-priced at this point? Yes.
So as we mentioned earlier 30% went through the pipe last year and I think by the end of this year will be at about 80%.
As we mentioned 50% to 60% of this year’s goes through in the first quarter.
So if you sort of do the math there and apply that roughly 50% of the premium has went through the pipeline.
Halfway done.
Okay.
That’s all I have.
Thanks.
You bet.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Berg with RBC Capital.
Your line is now open.
Thanks very much.
I’d like to return to the two topics that have sort of been dominant in this call mainly being the mortality and the group insurance.
On the individual side I just want to sort of sharpen my understanding once and for all of what happened here.
Randy you said that actual to expecteds were similar this year to last year.
I guess what I’d like to know is were they both above 100% this year and last year? No they’re not above 100%.
So typically for a year our actual to expected is going to be in the 80s.
And what we’ve seen over the past years in the first quarter is that it’s roughly 10 points higher than that in the first quarter.
And that’s what we experienced again this year.
Okay.
I’ll have to circle back because I don’t understand how you could – I’ll circle back to Chris how you can expect something to be below your expectations.
It doesn’t – I can’t get my mind around it.
Well Eric let me describe that a little bit maybe to inform you.
It’s because of how we calculate it.
So for other business we’ve sold in the last 15 years or so we used the exact pricing expectations.
We expect to be roughly in the 100% range.
For all the old historic business we used sort of a standard industry table.
And so that number typically comes up somewhere below 100.
So for everything that we’ve sold recently everything that we have really good data and records for we used the exact pricing experience.
And then for all the older business we use more of an industry table.
And that’s why you end up with this blended number which ends up below 100%.
If I could ask you now about the group insurance.
It’s still not apparent to me – again I’d like to sharpen my understanding having listened closely to the last questions about what is not going well here in the following sense.
You’ve described the results as core and I think Randy you described them as poor.
But what we know is that there has been a significant improvement in incidence.
There’s been a significant improvement in recovery.
You’ve raised prices sharply.
This has led to I guess lactation which in turn has triggered a non-cash charge for the accelerated amortization of DAC.
So given all that you’re losing customers as you expected you’re getting a better claims experience as you expected.
What is not happening that you would like to have seen happened by now? Where are you behind? Yes Eric I think now we’re getting into a little bit of semantics.
Our comment simply we’re disappointed in a negative quarter in the absolute.
That’s not a comment with respect to expectations of some of these things that you’re talking about.
We’re just disappointed that we’ve had a lost quarter.
Okay.
And as we’ve said all along the progress that we’re going to make here is not going to be linear.
I apologize for repeating this.
We still – there’s nothing happened at this quarter that we haven’t seen – excuse me that changes our expectations as to getting closer to our margins late 2016 2017.
I think it’s fair to say and I know that we’ve been talking about price increases now for a couple of quarters I think it’s fair to say that we have gotten much more aggressive in the last six months with our price increases than we did in the first six months.
So it’s not that – we’re seeing the progress but we’re even getting better increases but those aren’t going to show up for a little bit.
And don’t forget that it’s hard to remember that these price increases are going to flow in over time.
You’re not getting them all at one time.
So I understand the question.
There is a lot of variables.
I guess we just fall back on we’re making good progress and our expectations remain the same.
That answers my question.
Thank you very much.
Yes.
Ladies and gentlemen we are at the top of the hour.
I’d like to turn the call back to Chris Giovanni for closing remarks.
Thank you so much and thank you all for joining us this morning.
As always we’re around to take your questions on the Investor Relations line at 800-237-2920 or through email at investorrelations@lfg.com.
Again thank you all for joining and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good morning.
And thank you for joining Lincoln Financial Group's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all lines are in listen-only mode.
Later we will announce the opportunity for questions and instructions will be giving at that time.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would now like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Chris Giovanni.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Bridget.
Good morning.
And welcome to Lincoln Financial’s second quarter earnings call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about sales and deposits expenses income from operations and liquidity and capital resources are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln’s website www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to their most comparable GAAP measures.
So presenting on today’s call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Operating earnings per share increased over the first quarter of this as we saw significant earnings improvement in our Group Protection business.
Elevated mortality in Individual Life driven by abnormally high claims severity resulted in EPS being roughly flat versus the prior year quarter.
Excluding notable items in both periods EPS would have increased mid-single digits.
Positive momentum in key business drivers across our four segments is encouraging and supports our growth profitability and capital management initiatives.
Let me quickly touch on each of these areas before commenting on segment results.
First growth in the second quarter sales compared to first quarter increased 9% or more in all of our businesses and we continue to benefit various product introductions and requirements.
Importantly our mix of sales is increasingly diversified and returns on new business remained very very attractive.
We also once again generated positive net flows in every business which contributed to total average account values being up 6% to a record $224 billion.
Next turning to profitability we are encouraged by the earnings improvement we saw this quarter in Group Protection as management actions aimed at restoring profitability are beginning to gain traction.
Total earning progress was masked by adverse Individual Life mortality but our positive outlook for this business has not change and I hope you will get a better sense of our earnings potential in a more benign Individual Life mortality quarter and as Group Protection continues to recover.
Lastly capital management our balance sheet remains a source of strength and capital generation continues to support active capital management with another $150 million of share repurchases completed in the quarter.
We have put more than $2.5 billion towards buybacks over the past four years driving our share count to a post-merger low.
Now turning to our business lines starting with annuities it was another quarter of great results as our high quality income stream continues to grow.
Total annuity sales of $3.4 billion were consistent with the outlook we have provided in the first quarter.
Recall we expect the sales to exceed $3 billion.
Sales grew 13% from the first quarter and increased sequentially for the first time in the last year a testament to our consistent approach to the market and our commitment to this high return business.
Variable Annuity sales totaled $3 billion and our strategic goal to increase the percentage of VA sales from products without living benefits to 30% has almost been obtained.
This quarter we reached 28% marking the eighth straight quarter of sequential increase.
When factoring in the impact on sales covered by our reinsurance treaty non-guaranteed products comprise 59% of total VA sales.
An important contributor to this risk diversification strategy has been the very successful launch of Investor Advantage our investment focused VA product that provides an efficient platform for account value performance.
It is worth noting that in the first year Investor Advantage sales exceeded $650 million marking another very successful pivot for Lincoln.
Net flows totaled nearly $400 million more than double first quarter levels.
When combined with favorable equity markets through most of the second quarter average account balance increased 6% to $126 billion.
All of which supported another solid earnings quarter.
We have produced a track record of consistent high quality annuity earnings.
We expect this to continue as new business returns remain attractive.
Demographic tailwinds still support product demand and we believe our disciplined approach to risk management combined with product innovation will enable us to respond to future changes in the marketplace.
Turning to Individual Life we recognized though we focused on our second straight quarter of adverse mortality.
We continue to view this as a fluctuation in mortality and note the underlying experience in each quarter was very different.
Randy will touch on this later.
In terms of sales total Life Insurance sales in the quarter were $201 million a 17% increase from prior year quarter as a results benefit from a large holy sale.
Sales across our aggregate Life portfolio continues to achieve our 12% to 15% pro rate or returns.
The strength of our distribution along with product breath enables us to advance our product portfolio diversification including selling more products without long-term guarantees.
This quarter no single product represented more than 23% of our total production.
An improvement from last year and 73% of our sales did not have long-term guarantees up from 58% in the prior year quarter.
Focusing on Individual Life Insurance sales increased 12% sequentially as the strong momentum we discussed on our first quarter earnings call was sustained.
MoneyGuard sales increased 15% over the prior year quarter as we are benefiting from the expansion of our MoneyGuard II product which we released in 2014.
Indexed Universal Life sales are growing as the marketplace adapts the new illustration requirements that take place beginning September 1st.
Growth in these two products has been offset by decline in VUL and Term though we expect new product launches to help drive future sales in these products.
Our outlook for the Life Insurance business remains positive drivers continued to indicate mid single-digit earnings growth as our diversified product portfolio combined with depth and breath of our distribution distinguishes Lincoln in the marketplace.
Turning to Group Protection as I noted earlier we are encouraged by the earnings improvement this quarter and reiterate that we expect to approach our target margin range of 5% to 7% by late 2016 early 2017.
Second quarter sales of $62 million were down 15% compared to the prior year quarter.
Our pricing actions continue to put downward pressure on new business opportunities and we expect sales growth to remain soft as we move through the year.
We continue to make inroads on our targeted strategy to further expand the employee paid voluntary market.
This is an important element in our overall strategy to achieve and sustain profitable growth in this business.
In the quarter 44% of sales were employee paid up slightly year-over-year.
So the bottomline in Group Protection is we are encouraged by the earnings improvement we saw this quarter management actions aims at restoring profitability are gaining traction and position as well to achieve our target margin range.
In Retirement Plan Services earnings were impacted by higher expenses in part related to investments for future growth combined with lower spread income.
The underlying business drivers remained firmly intact.
Second quarter deposits of $1.9 billion were up 3% from a year ago and included growth in both recurring deposits and first year sales.
Deposits increased 9% sequentially due to a pickup in first year sales activity.
We believe this momentum is driven by investments we're making in our sales force and technology and we expect to benefit further from these investments over time as we grow into our improved infrastructure.
Net flows remained a strong story in our retirement business.
Net flows of $306 million in the quarter increased our year-to-date total to $422 million compared to just $5 million in the prior quarter.
Success has been driven by a number of factors including stronger sales momentum in the mid-large market where we have had nearly three times as many wins compared to this time last year.
Our pipeline remained strong.
And as a result our outlook for positive net flows is intact and we now expect flows in the third quarter to exceed the second quarter marking the third straight quarter of sequential growth.
Fourth quarter is when we typically see large case movement which reduces our ability to forecast net flows at this point.
But we can provide more insight next quarter.
In distribution we had another strong quarter.
The depth and breadth of our retail wholesale and worksite teams continue to be a differentiator enabling us to drive sequential increase in sales I noted in my business segment commentary.
Distribution also enables us to shift our business mix.
Notably 69% of our total sales did not have long-term guarantees up from 62% a year ago.
We continue to invest in and grow our client facing professionals as total headcount now stands at over 1 400 up 3% versus the prior year.
These professionals help tell our compelling story to the 64 000 producers that sold Lincoln products over the past year and the 91 000 that have sold our products in the last 24 months.
You’ve heard we say many times that distribution is a competitive advantage for Lincoln and I expect this to continue as our strong diverse distribution franchises are well-positioned to navigate future product and marketplace changes.
And briefly on investment management we put new money to work in the second quarter at an average yield of 4.3% which was up from 3.8% in the first quarter as we benefited from rising market yields and asset mix.
We continue to see value in less liquid asset classes where yields and underlying fundamentals remain attractive.
We are not reaching for yield in the low investment-grade assets which represented 4.4% of purchases this quarter and is less than our total portfolios below investment grade assets at 5.2%.
Alternative investment income improved to $28 million compared to $8 million in the first quarter with positive contributions from both our private equity and hedge funds strategies.
Lastly with respect to the Department of Labor fiduciary standards proposal consistent with the DOL's goals we want Americans to buy the right product at the right price with a complete understanding of the cost and benefits.
The tug and pull is around how best to achieve these objectives.
We submitted comment letters last week with our recommendations as to the number of other industry participants and major trade associations.
Importantly the DOL seems to be showing a willingness to listen and make changes to the proposal.
We recognized there are questions on the implications to our business.
However it is still early and hard to predict where this will end up.
I would say if there is short-term sales disruption lowering sales for some reason we would be able to reallocate capital to share buybacks to blunt much of the earnings per share impact.
Over that period we would be very active pivoting to new products expanding our reach in existing markets while accessing our broad and diverse set of producers to drive future sales growth.
You’ve seen us do this repeatedly and very effectively across all product lines in the past 36 months.
And I'm confident we will once again respond to marketplace or regulatory changes effectively.
In closing I'm very pleased our actions taken to restore profitability in Group Protection are getting momentum.
Our investments in RPS position us well for future growth while in our life business drivers continue to indicate mid-single digit earnings growth potential.
In Annuities we once again grew our high quality income stream.
Bottom line as we continue to see sales grow with very attractive new business returns across our franchise we are confident future earnings will follow.
I will now turn the call over to Randy.
Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of $371 million or a $1.46 per share for the second quarter.
Excluding notable items EPS increased 4% year-over-year as this quarter was negatively impacted by $0.03 while last year’s second quarter benefited $0.04.
This year's results were also negatively impacted $28 million from elevated mortality in individual life due to several large claims.
As you know we do not normalize for mortality as it will fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter.
However we felt the abnormally high claims severity should be noted.
This quarter we produced positive results in several key performance metrics.
The topline once again posted healthy mid-single-digit growth with operating revenue up 4%.
Another quarter of positive net flows in all of our segments combined with growth in equity markets resulted in average account values reaching $224 million a record level.
Book value per share excluding AOCI grew 8% to $50.83 as below the line items have been insignificant enabling our operating earnings to consistently compound book value in the high single-digit range.
Operating return on equity came in at 11.7% up 50 basis points from the first quarter as Group Protection earnings improved.
And finally our balance sheet remains well-positioned to providing significant financial flexibility.
Turning to segment results and starting with Annuities.
Reported earnings for the quarter were $255 million a 12% increase over last year.
Operating revenues increased 7% from the second quarter of 2014 as positive net flows continued and equity markets remain supportive.
This combination resulted in a 6% increase in average account values that reached $126 billion at the end of the quarter.
Return metrics remained strong and consistent with recent periods.
ROA increased 4 basis points versus the prior year while ROE came in at 25% again a very strong result.
And in fact Annuity ROEs have consistently been exceeding 20% for several years now.
Strong results from our hedge program combined with minimal policyholder behavior impact further demonstrates the very high quality of our annuity income stream.
Importantly we also remain disciplined in how we allocate capital to our Annuity business and this has not hampered our ability to maintain strong ROEs something that Dennis mentioned earlier that we expect to continue.
Turning to our Life Insurance segment.
Earnings of $105 million were down due to elevated mortality.
Importantly our claim counts declined as expected from a seasonally high first quarter.
Sequentially claim counts decreased 11% while the year-over-year increase was consistent with in-force growth.
Therefore our adverse mortality this quarter was primarily driven by several large claims that resulted in abnormally high claims severity.
As I noted upfront this negatively impacted earnings by $28 million.
Let me bring you inside Lincoln’s private perspective on how we assess and analyze this quarter’s mortality results including our key takeaways.
Let’s start with account experience which measures frequency.
This quarter was favorable 2% to our expectations while amount experience which measures dollars of claims was unfavorable by 14%.
Favorable account experience and unfavorable amount experience indicates claims severity as the underlying driver results.
On a statistical basis this quarter was a 99 percentile kind of event equivalent to a one in one hundred event.
It’s a very uncommon.
Included in this quarter's elevated claims severity was unfavorable experience in the large phase segment meeting policies above $5 million.
Within this cohort was an unusual concentration of injury-related deaths which occurred to policyholders in their 40s.
It is also worth mentioning that the business we recaptured at year end was largely in line with our expectations and was not a driver of the quarter's adverse mortality.
We continue to expect to recapture transaction to be accretive to EPS.
Quickly on life earnings drivers average account values increased 5% with in-force base amount of 3% consistent with recent performance and our organic growth expectations.
Normalized spreads came in at 165 basis points down 3 basis points from the prior year.
Spread compression continues but it's definitely abating.
So overall adverse mortality results in the quarter but our analysis points this being the quarter marked exclusively by volatility.
We continue to expect that when viewed over more extended period of time mortality experience will be in line with our longer term expectations.
And in fact if you look at both count and amount experience for more extended period of time let’s say 2010 to 2014 we see that was right on top of our expectations.
Our outlook for life insurance business remains positive marked by mid-single-digit driver growth good returns on new business and prospects for spread compression to abate.
In retirement plan services we reported earnings of $30 million.
Account values benefited from positive net flows in the second quarter along with supportive equity markets and as a result average account values increased sequentially and ended the quarter at $55 billion up 5% versus the prior year.
Normalized spreads compressed 12 basis points versus the prior year quarter consistent with our expectations for spreads that decline by 10 to 15 basis points annually in the retirement business.
Earnings were negatively impacted a $2 billion from expense anomalies that are unlikely to persist but I would note that results will continue to include incremental investments in IT and our sales force.
We expect these incremental investments to position us well for future growth that when combined with rising interest rates should lead to earnings growth in RPS.
Group protection earnings of $19 million were well above the $2 million reported in the prior year quarter and operating losses the past two quarters.
Loss ratios benefited from the pricing and claims management actions we have been implementing.
Non-medical loss ratio improved from 78.1% in the first quarter to 73.6% this quarter.
This marks our lowest loss ratios since the third quarter of 2013.
Sequential progress was driven by improvement in all product lines life visibility and dental.
Our disability loss ratio improved 7 percentage points over the prior year as LTD incidents and recoveries continue to improve.
Caseloads per claim examiner which were elevated are likely to reach targeted levels in the third quarter which should help reduce some of our recent earnings volatility.
Excluding $10 million of accelerated amortization back in the first quarter this marks our second straight quarter of solid earnings improvement.
So we are encouraged by this momentum which reflects management actions aimed at restoring profitability.
Nevertheless claims can be volatile quarter to quarter.
Despite that I believe this quarter validates that we are in a path to an earnings recovery in Group Protection.
Before moving to Q&amp;A let me comment on a few other items of note.
Our business model continues to generate capital allowing us to support sales growth at very attractive returns also allocating capital to shareholders.
Capital return remains a key focus and to this point buyback totaled $150 million in the second quarter moving us to $500 million year-to-date.
Statutory surplus stands at $8.4 billion and we estimate our RBC ratio will end the quarter at approximately 505% a very strong number.
Holding company cash ended the quarter at $545 million as we returned $250 million of debt in June.
Recall that we prefunded that maturity with our March debt offering.
On prior conference calls we have noted we remain comfortable with our leveraging capital structure.
As you know our capital structure includes hybrid which move the floating rate coupons in 2016 and ‘17.
I would like to point out though that we have entered into swaps to lock in the fixed rate a fixed rate on those securities and our current intent is to hold them.
So to conclude and looking forward organic growth drivers are firmly intact.
Margin improvement and Group Protection is emerging.
Abnormally high claim severity and individual life is unlikely to repeat.
Enterprise expense discipline creates an earnings lever.
Spread compression is abating and at current rates we expect to be at the low end of the 2% to 3% range we previously communicated and our outlook for capital management remains strong and is aligned with shareholders.
With that let me turn the call over to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Jimmy Bhullar with J.P.
Morgan.
Your line is open.
Hi.
The first question is just on if you think about the DOL standards the way the preliminary proposal was how does -- how do you think it will affect your business whether it’s in annuities or in life insurance or retirement? Jimmy it’s very difficult to speculate about provisions that are -- sorry in motion if you will that are changing.
I think the analyst observations on this sort of focus on possibly the VA business being affected by it.
That would be related to whether or not and how you charge for advice inside of qualified plans whereas commission or fee for advice.
But on that particular plan I’ll repeat what I said a minute ago if VA sales were to be affected and decline a little bit we think that capital that would be otherwise employed for the sales and buy share back and plant the large majority of that impact giving us time to pivot as we have demonstrated in the past we can pivot.
So I’m answering the question that I see in lot of analyst reports first not that I think that the outcome that is certain.
So besides commission could it affect your ability to sell VAs without guarantees in retirement plans? Would it affect our ability to sell renewals in return… Within qualified brands if you think… If you have changed the structure of how you pay the advisors who are selling it that’s the biggest issue.
Again we’re not all convinced that that’s going to happen.
It could.
And any impacts that you see in any of the other businesses? The other impacts are more opaque.
It could be some issues in terms of extra cost in the retirement business which we would -- this is the problem with the Department of Labor’s proposal.
It unfortunately could and again they are willing to move it or they are willing to respond because everybody’s goal is to keep cost low and value high for Americans.
And so I think we have to work with the DOL to remove some of the extra paper work that seems to be required so that cost aren’t increased that might ultimately be transferred to the customer.
Okay.
And then there has been a lot of talk about M&amp;A recently.
How do you view Lincoln in the current environment maybe just because you have interest in potential acquisitions? You’ve talked about interest in Group Insurance and retirement in the past.
Are you still looking at doing deals in those businesses? That’s a great question.
I have been thinking myself for the last couple of days across the financial services of the industry I guess maybe excluding bank.
It’s a bit of a rodeo out there.
P&amp;C healthcare companies and each of those industries that have sort of idiosyncratic reasons why it’s occurring.
If you look at the life insurance industry we’ve got two important transactions of course the protected transaction and now StanCorp which reflects new capital coming into the market place.
New capital coming into the market place is a good thing.
As we know or as has been talked about and it appears the returns that these companies are being brought at are probably mid single digit.
If I look at and hear what’s going on elsewhere in our industry with some of the strategic deals that have been done over the past 24 months.
Once again the discount rate seemed to be 7% to 8% even after taking into consideration or taking in considerations synergies and revenue enhancing opportunities.
So 7% to 8% for buying businesses.
When you come -- are able to put new business up at 12% to 14% when you can buy your capital back at 12% to 14% it just seems to be at the moment pretty huge impediment for Lincoln to be doing transactions.
Having said that discount rates change market environments change sometimes some companies have a greater ability to affect the income of the target company so that you can get actually a lot of earnings and discount those earnings back at a decent discount rate and still win.
But in summary when you find business is 8% and you can sell your new product at 12% to 14 I think at Lincoln we choose to selling new product at 12% to 14%.
And if we don’t have -- and we’re generating more capital as we have then what’s necessary to support new products who buyer our stock back because we still think we can get that kind of return on it.
I am sorry.
I have gone on a little bit.
No thank you.
And just lastly if you could -- how do you see Lincoln as a potential takeout candidate in this environment are you -- do you have scale in all the businesses that you are in that you could do well on your own or are you looking for or do you think you will be better off as part of a larger company and/or are you too large to be acquired because Japanese companies obviously the ones they bought were half of your size? Yes Jimmy again over the time I have been in the business all the things that you have mentioned has changed.
What has not changed is our view that we will look to any opportunity to enhance shareholder value.
And if that includes some of the things you talked about great.
But the critical issue is what’s our potential as a standalone company we think that’s great.
If there is something else that might be better than that over the long term obviously we will consider it.
But our focus right now has to be continues to be as it always has been building a great franchise that produces earnings growth and grows over time.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning everybody.
A couple.
I don’t know if Mark is there and this question has to do a little bit I think with the DOL and FINRA in this case.
Does LFN sell VA’s with [C-shares] [ph]? There seems to be a movement of FINRA trying to forbid this practice which seems to be contracting the DOLs.
So I am just wondering about LFN.
Steve we’re going to get back to you on that.
At LFN we sell products on a variety of commission-based fees.
We don’t have in front of us the statistics as to which one dominates.
So if you don’t mind we will get back to you on that.
No not a problem.
I realize I always a little bit out of the box.
Two more though.
Randy was the takeaway -- I am just going a little fast is the takeaway on the mortality that it was predominantly driven by accidental deaths people in their 40s? Yes.
As I noted we had $28 million of after-tax impact in the quarter.
Now if you turn that into dollars of claims it was about $46 million of claims over and above what we expect.
If you dig inside of that $46 million what you see is that $32 million of it was located as I mentioned in my script in policies that were bigger than $5 million.
So it definitely had a large claim bias.
And inside of that $32 million we saw was $20 million or so $19 million $20 million was located inside of the $40 million a younger age bucket a younger age cohort people in their 40s and they were predominantly accidental deaths in nature.
So when I think of accidental deaths I think of things like homicides accidental deaths suicide that sort of stuff.
So it was definitely driven by these large claims for the quarter as they made up nearly 70% of the total.
And inside of that there was a trend in younger age which is just well outside of the norm well outside of our expectations.
Okay.
All right.
That’s good and said.
And then one more for you.
You talked about a little bit retirement plan but I think overall prepayments may cause another variable.
Investment income was very low for the quarter at least relative to what’s in the supplement.
Is there a way to put a number on this by any chance first do you agree? And then second is there a way to put a number on this? I guess I don’t think.
Are you asking is the level unusual in those two categories? Well in general for the company? Well let me respond specifically to what happened in the quarter.
We had $28 million of alternative income which is about where we’ve been over the last two years 2013 and 2014 averaged around 25.
On prepayment we’re at 11 which was compares to about $30 million over the last two years.
So it’s little bit less than what we experienced.
Prepayment income is moving income from one period to another.
So we don’t focus on that a lot.
We did do a lot of analysis as to whether or not there is potential for that number to increase or decrease.
I think where interest rates are for our book specifically prepayment income will probably play a part of our earnings for a couple more years.
Okay.
Thank you Dennis.
Steven I would point out in that regard that when you freeze down to the businesses year-over-year prepayment income last year was really a benefit for the life insurance business in the second quarter.
And if you remember on last year’s call life insurance business I noted that they had roughly $6 million after-tax of benefit from strong prepayment income.
It’s probably a little bit of benefit in the retirement business last year in the second quarter but I specifically spiked up last year’s $6 million for the life insurance but didn’t have this year.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks guys.
You bet.
And our next question is from Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just first on the mortality Dennis you had referenced two sequential quarters with bad mortality.
So as we sit here ahead of the third quarter deck review how should we think about how these two quarters are going to inform whether or not you may needed to take some action on the life deck in the third quarter review? I think you asked me but I am going to turn that quickly over to Randy.
I will take that Suneet.
Obviously when we look at our assumptions especially our long-term assumption like mortality it’s a lot more greater than the last two quarters.
So while it may have some small impact over the 80s we would project going forward it’s relatively small.
When you think about the longer-term context the amount of mortality experience we have in the company I would point on this mortality.
I talked about this particular quarter the count experience was 2% favorable and the amount experienced was 14% unfavorable.
If you look at those same statistics over a more extended period of time just the right on top of our expectations.
I talked about a 5 year period 2010 to 2014 both those numbers exactly at a 100% of our expectation.
Now year by year you would see at 1% higher or 1% lower 2% higher or 2% lower but over that more extended period of time right on top of our expectations.
So really see these two quarters as outliers.
And I wouldn’t expect them to have a significant impact on the third quarter unlocking.
Okay.
And the while we are on the subject of the third quarter unlocking any comments on where we sit today in terms of interest rates? No but broadly speaking on the third quarter unlocking.
And when I think about unlocking I really sort of break it down into three buckets.
First I think about elective policyholder behavior and you are well aware that’s been a very strong story at Lincoln things like lapses we think over the last 4 or 5 or 6 year.
It’s just been a very strong story.
It hasn’t had much impact at all on the results.
And I would imagine I don’t expect really much impact from the last year experience and you’ve got an elective policyholder behavior that’s mortality.
We just talked about mortality.
And then you have the market-driven inputs you have the J-curve the long-term great assumption and then the long-term growth rate of the separate accounts.
We will look at both those.
We have another year of information we have another year of low rates and that will impact somewhat our analysis.
But I am not going to front run the results but we will definitely take a hard look at those market-driven inputs.
Got it.
And then just for Dennis I guess this one is for you.
On the DOL proposal I hear your comments about potential changes that may come to pass over the next couple of months.
I have read some stories in the press about that as well.
So I guess my question is when you talk about your expectations that things may change.
Does that based on the conversations that you're actually having in DC? Or is it based on just kind of the general commentary in the media? And the reason I asked the question is I've talked to our own contacts and some contacts in DC I just get the sense that the view is that there probably won't be any major changes to the DOL.
So I just want to get a sense of where your confidence is coming from if I'm characterizing it correctly.
Yes.
Let me answer the question very specifically Department of Labor Secretary Perez in the hearings said he thought changes would have to be made to the proposal.
So my comment is based upon his statement public statement in the hearing.
And whether or not he’s drifted from that I can’t tell you.
What I do know is you’re right there’s a lot of rumor actually on both sides of the question.
So we just collectively have to continue to work for good outcome for Americans and a good outcome mostly for Americans.
Again the tug and pull is not about the objective the tug and pull is are some of these proposals at odds with the intent of the Department of Labor when you dig into.
I think all of the industry and trade association comments have been -- come on let’s understand a little better practically what these things would do in the way they affect American consumers retirement products.
Okay.
Thanks Dennis.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Bob Glasspiegel with Janney.
Your line is open.
Good morning Lincoln.
Question on group protection are you still sticking with sort of the timing of late '16 early '17 for where you’re going to get to your targeted margins? Yes.
I said that in my comments.
Okay.
Yes.
Okay.
I just want to make sure because it looks like a good run rate to get there from Q2 to Q1 improvements.
On the life side you're saying I think the first quarter was a frequency blip and the second quarter was a severity blip so no need to adjust underwriting and pricing actions? No Bob not at all.
As I noted in my script to once again highlight the points you made the frequency was actually down 11% in the second quarter from the first quarter.
And it was actually a little better than our expectations for the number of claims that we would have.
So the second quarter was definitely a severity-driven event which was very different.
I mean the first quarter if you remember I believe is more related to a bad flu season it was spread across the entire portfolio.
And so it was the number of claims spread across the entirety of the business that we issue whereas the second quarter was very focused in these larger claims as I mentioned.
And some very abnormal items such as this focused on younger age accidental claims that I talked about so very different in the nature of the two quarters.
And nothing that I would expect to cause any changes at all in our underwriting practices which we believe are industry-leading and that have over time delivered great mortality results and mortality results that are exactly inline with our expectations.
Nice to hear your confidence.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Colin Devine with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Dennis I was wondering if you could just draw into the potential impact from the DOL a little deeper.
And I appreciate your comments about leveling compensation for your agents.
But what about 12b-1 fees what about marketing allowances? And if those had to go away what would be the impact on Lincoln? And how might you be able to replace those? Colin again I think that’s a good question.
It’s fairly specific.
And I think I’d rather answer in general terms.
And we've been conveying to the department labor you have to look through the expenses to see what the benefit the customer is achieving.
And so for example the DOL seems to think that the fees charged for VA living benefit guarantees or VA’s are the little bit expensive for the consumer in total.
The response is the total fee isn’t what matters it’s what are the benefits.
But we keep coming back to -- we have well-designed products that provide very good consumer value and that ought to continue and we ought to be able to get those products into the marketplace into the hands of consumers on a cost-effective basis.
So there can be change in one or two of the line item of expenses but it takes a certain amount of fees and expenses to deliver good products.
And I suspect that even the demand or living benefit products there would be an industry way to accomplishment.
All right.
If I hear what you’re saying then you’re feeling confident that you could replace but the 25 basis points to [indiscernible] fees you’re collecting now and what I assume is another 25 basis points or so of marketing allowances from the fund companies inside the VA? I would say that's a level of detail that’s hard to respond to specifically.
And so I want to just take this up to level and say there are certain costs and benefits that are necessary to get good product in the hands of the consumer.
And I'm hopeful between the industries involved in this debate and DOL will arrive at a reasonable middle ground on that.
Okay.
Then one follow-up Lincoln has also been fairly active in de-risking.
Its VA block.
You move to bunch of assets under managed risk funds you move to much element to index funds.
What do you think your ability is going to be to do initiatives like that going forward with respect to the VA assets that are inside retirement accounts or inside IRA’s if this thing goes down pretty much at its laid out? Yeah.
As we’ve discussed and if I can go to the Life side just for a second I believe if I recall correctly we use to sell 65% of our business and guaranteed universal life but today that’s down to 12% or 18%.
And any product in the Life Insurance portfolio is no more than 29% of our current sales.
So we really made good progress in diversifying what we sell in the Life portfolio.
By move to the Individual Annuity portfolio and I know you know this or not I’m just repeating it for everybody's benefit.
We’ve gone from selling essentially 92% of the business on a guaranteed basis to where today we’re almost at 70% on a guaranteed basis just gross sales.
And so we moved the dial diversification of VA portfolio 20% in the space of 36 months both with the ability to tap into new markets which are represented by the 91 000 different advisors that have brought our products over the last 24 months and by adding products like Investor Advantage.
So I will tell you separate from the DOL issue.
It’s our intention to continue to diversify products and that would include responding what we sell into the variable annuity market.
And we look at this very carefully.
We see some opportunities and as we come forward with more ideas on that and our actionable ideas will convey that too our investors and the people on this phone.
Let me add.
We’ve actually done very little of -- I think what you referenced.
I think what you’re referencing the things like VA buy-outs and that sort of stuff.
And I think as … I was talking about this [SunTrust] [ph] market where you did a fairly significant move I believe last year into index funds the SEC approved it obviously as well as in the managed hedge funds of in-force assets.
The majority of what we have has just been sold.
So I think as you would expect out of a high quality book covered by a high-quality hedge program like ours.
I really don't see the inability to do things like that would have any impact on this at all because there is really not a need to do anything like that.
Okay.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Michael Kovac with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
A question on variable annuities.
It look like sales were strongly rebounded in the quarter and the ROE looked stable.
But the equity in this business was up about 20% versus the year ago.
The account values were up maybe closer to single digits and given the mix shift that would expect to more or less capital intensive products that you might see sort of -- and inverse of that.
Can you let us know what’s going on there? Yeah.
We’ve seen -- in the annuity business we have some flows on our capital we allocate to the business that are linked to account value.
We have floors because the VA guarantee businesses is a type of business especially in out markets where your sarcastic models will really tell you that you can take capital out of the business and I think what you end up is a bad risk position.
The most floors have really sort of kicked in over the last year 18 months and pushed the capital.
Now despite that I would point out Michael that we have continued to report ROEs in the mid-20s.
So the capital is definitely -- we are not driven by the very conservative approach we have to allocating capital which is the greater of these account value linked floors and a sarcastic approach.
We continue to report very strong returns.
Yeah.
I appreciate that.
And then thinking about group in terms of the pricing that you think you still need to take to get to your margin goals where are we on that basis and what are you seeing in the competitive environment in terms of the ability to push through that much pricing? Yeah.
I think if you go back to the beginning of this we talked about a $1 billion of business to reprice and I think we’re roughly 55% of the way or so through that.
By the end of this year we will be three quarters to 80% ROE through that and the balance will come over the remainder of 2016.
So we’re working our way through it.
In terms of the other big earnings driver it would be the things that we’ve done on the claims management area.
And as I mentioned I think we are pretty much where we need to be on that I’d expect to be there in the third quarter.
Let me expand on your questions just a little bit.
Just give you a couple of high-level statistics.
We had year-to-date premium renewal about $512 million and we were able to move the net after-tax margin on that business up by 7% versus what it had been at.
And somewhat -- because getting price increases needs to -- that's one piece of it.
The other piece is how much you are retaining what is the margin on what you're retaining and what the margin on what’s leading? And so this 7% increase in margin sort of captures all of that and it’s a pretty good indication about pricing actions that we’re taking are getting traction.
Thanks.
I appreciate the answers.
Okay.
Thank you.
We do have time for one more question.
Our next question will be from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Sorry if it’s already covered but the $159 buyback faced in 2Q should we view that as a reasonable run rate for the rest of the year? Jay as you’ve read we don’t get into the specific around this.
I’ll go back to the words I said at the beginning of the year really which is we’d expect to exceed last year’s buyback total of $650 million.
We’re at $500 million in the first two quarters of the year.
I point out that cash of the holding company remains strong $545 million above the 500 million that we target.
We continue to generate strong earnings in the balance sheet at the life company is very strong 505% RBC ratio.
The other thing I point out is that I would expect over the last half of the year to likely to do obviously financing transaction that would also free up a little bit of capital.
So I think everything is in place and very supportive of continuing to do a buybacks at healthy pace.
That’s great Randy.
And then Dennis in your prepared remarks I believe you mentioned mid-single digit earnings growth potential.
Was that for the whole company and if it was did that pull back a bit from mid to high single digits previously in terms of an outlook? Though let’s be very specific about the answer to this question.
In terms of my specific remarks that if you remove notable items and look at EPS growth first quarter 2000 -- excuse me -- second quarter 2014 versus second quarter 2015 and that was middle single digits.
I would direct you for a longer term deal back to what I thought was a pretty good chart of potential earnings growth over the next couple of years and specific drivers of that growth which I think added up to Randy? 8% to 10%.
8% to 10%.
So in my comment specifically quarter-over-quarter after notable adjustments and there's no reason for us to think that that chart -- statistics in that chart are any different today than they were when we put it there.
Okay.
Great.
So 8% to 10% long-term EPS growth potential.
And then finally just a quick one for Randy on the individual life segment the operating income $105 million but based on your commentary about the elevated mortality am I thinking right that several run rate in that business is closer to 125 or might be higher? No.
I think if you just mathematically take 105 and add 28 million of mortality that I know that would be in the mid 130s which is more in line with my expectations.
You can get there a number of different ways.
If you go back to the last year second quarter when we made $148 million and back off the prepayment income was $6 million that I mentioned you mentioned back off there was a $5 million normalizing item.
It would be sort of in that mid 130 area again.
You can go back longer term in that.
If you go back a few years and you look at what the business made and you grow and you back off the spread compression and the capital actions that you’ve talked about once again hit in that mid 130 range.
So when I think about the business I continue to think about right in that range the mid 130s and what earnings drivers that are growing at 4% to 5%.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thank you.
And that does end our Q&amp;A session.
I’ll now turn the call back over to Mr.
Christopher Giovanni.
Thank you again Bridget.
Thank you all for joining us this morning.
As always we will be around to take questions at the Investor Relations line at (800) 237-2920 via email at investorrelations@lfg.com.
Thank you all again and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Speakers please standby.
Good morning.
And thank you for joining Lincoln Financial Group's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all lines are in listen-only mode.
Later we will announce the opportunity for questions and instructions will be giving at that time.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Chris Giovanni.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Lauren.
Good morning.
And welcome to Lincoln Financial’s third quarter earnings call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about sales and deposits expenses income from operations and liquidity and capital resources are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln’s website www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to their most comparable GAAP measures.
Presenting on today’s call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to question-and-answer portion of the call.
I would now like to turn things over to Dennis.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
This quarter was remarked by significant capital markets volatility Lincoln's growth profitability and capital management initiatives produced solid results.
Top line metrics were very strong as we benefited from a number of new product introduction as a result we generated positive net flows in all our segments which led to a 17% increase in consolidated net flows while life insurance sales also grew 8%.
EPS excluding notable items in both periods increased 10% as we noted in the press release our annual plus function review reduced reported ESP [ph].
Never look back this was a non cash item and our balance sheet continues to be a stores up strength.
To this point our book value per share excluding AOCI increased 7% and buybacks accelerated to 200 million as capital generation remain solid.
Bottom line our franchise earnings growth potential and balance sheet are all very strong.
Equally important our quarterly result should mitigate several recent areas of investor uncertainty.
Notably individual life mortality returned to the normal levels following elevated experience in the first half of 2015.
Annuity earnings proved be resilient despite market volatility and group protection produced stable results as we continue our past to a forward recovery in earnings.
Now turning to our business lines starting with annuities.
Total annuity sales of 3.3 billion were steady with our quarterly average part of the past year which is a testament to our consistent approach for market.
We are focused on delivering and diversifying the mix of our annuity sales and there are couple examples in this quarter.
First 27% of our VA sales did not have living benefits as we are well good and reach our strategic goal of 30%.
Investor advantage our investment focus VA product remains an important contributor to this risk diversification strategy.
Also in October we amended our variable annuity reinsurance treaty we now have an additional $2 billion of capacity through year in 2016 which provides another lever for diversification.
Next fixed annuity sales approached 600 million more than doubled of prior year and up 55% sequentially as we broadened our index annuity portfolio and expanded relationships.
Market volatility in August also likely contributed the style of growth although it dampened VA sales.
This shift is just another example of the benefit of a diverse set of product offerings and meet different consumer needs.
Subsequent to end of the quarter we introduced a new benefit again with the goal of diversifying our annuity portfolio and meeting different consumer preferences.
Our recently launched market select advantage is a variable annuity rider designed offer greater investment flexibility in a living benefit without the guaranteed roll up traditionally offered with GMWB's.
Market select advantage is positioned to fill the gap between investment focused VA's and VA's with roll up living benefits.
Net flows in the quarter totaled 536 million as we continued to consistently generate positive organic growth.
And this marks the second straight quarter of sequential improvement.
Positive net flows has more than offset unfavorable equity fund performance as average account balances increased versus the prior period to 123 billion.
Our annuity business remains a high quality source of earnings.
This was attributable to decisions we made over a decade ago when we entered the living benefit marketplace.
Mainly fully hedging capital market risks and not participating in competitor feature awards as a result we have produced a long track record of success.
I would encourage you all to look at our presentation in Barclay's financial conference last month.
In that we reviewed our extended record of positive net flows and e-growth [ph] that compares favorably to asset managers when combined with effective risk management and a movement to a lower risk profile I continue to believe this business is very under appreciated.
Turning to individual life total life insurance sales in the quarter were $173 an 8% increase from the prior year quarter while individual life insurance sales increased 5%.
Overall sales once again achieved our expected per rate returns of 12% to 15%.
Digging into a few noteworthy product stories MoneyGuard sales increased 21% as we are benefiting from continued market acceptance of our MoneyGuard II product and traction in recently approved sales.
Indexed Universal Life sales increased 17% due to the success of new product launches.
Momentum should continue as new regulations that began in September required many competitors to make significant reductions in maximum illustration rates as a result our market position should improve product portfolio diversification continues to be a strategic focus within our life business as well.
This quarter no single product represented more than 30% of our total production and 67% of our sales did not have long-term guarantees up from 63% in the prior year quarter.
Overall key business drivers indicate mid-single digit earnings growth potential for our life insurance business consistent with our expectations.
Turning to Group Protection we are pleased with the continued progress we're making with our re-pricing efforts and the improvements of our claims management effectiveness.
Overall earnings increased from depressed results in the prior year quarter and we're consistent with the second quarter as we work towards achieving our targeted margins.
Third quarter sales $61 million were down as our pricing actions continue to put pressure on new business opportunities.
Despite this pressure we're pleased with our continued progress to improve the contribution of the more profitable employee head voluntary market.
In the quarter 49% of our sales were employee paid up from 45% in the prior year quarter.
It is worth noting we do see momentum building in our sales pipeline going into the fourth quarter which is important as this quarter typically contributes about 50% of full year sales.
In retirement planned services third quarter deposits of $1.9 billion were up 17% from a year ago and it included growth in both the small and mid-to-large market.
First year sales increased 65% as our investments in our sales force and technology continued to gain momentum.
Net flows of 251 million marked to third consecutive quarter of positive net flows and increased our year to date totals to $673 million compared to just $55 million in the prior year.
The fourth quarter is when we typically see large case movement.
To this point we were recently notified the case termination as a result we expect to have negative flows in fourth quarter however our annual net flows will be positive and marked a significant improvement from last year.
Bottom line our pipeline remains robust and we're confident our growth can outpace the market as our strategic investments improve our infrastructure and deepen our relationships and value proposition with consultants plan sponsors and participants.
In distribution we differentiate ourselves in marketplace through our retail wholesale and worksite teams that once again delivered exceptional results.
Strong sales growth noted in many products within the business section has been on our terms and importantly aligns with our business mix shift.
Our 1 400 client facing professionals and base of 91 000 producers has sold Lincoln products over the past two years continued to be a strategic advantage.
We remain focused on increasing productivity of this sales force and to this point sales driven by distributors where we have multiple products on their platforms increase sequentially in key cross-sell areas such as RPS MoneyGuard and fixed annuities.
In the quarter Lincoln Financial National network produced year-over-year sales growth across life annuities and RPS as the retail advisor network of 8 300 delivered our valuable customer solutions.
We’ll continue to invest in already deepen and powerful distribution to drive future growth and pivot to products that clients need and that Lincoln is uniquely positioned to offer.
Lastly on investment management we put new money to work in the third quarter at an average yield of 4.4% about 10 basis points above the prior quarter.
We benefitted from higher average treasure rates and wider spread.
The investment portfolio quality remains strong with investment grade assets representing just 5% of our fixed maturity portfolio down slightly from the prior year.
Our alternatives portfolio was a strong contributor to investment income in the quarter alternatives now represents 1.3% of our total invested assets and has steadily grown towards our long-term target of 1.5%.
As we expand this portfolio we expect to drive further growth in alternative investment income.
In closing underlying EPS growth of 10% is consistent with the target we provided at our investment -- Investor Day last year driven by organic earning modest capital tailwinds and effective capital management.
We remain confident in our ability to drive earnings growth as we leveraged attractive growth opportunities enforce margin improvement and our strong balance sheet which supports our active capital allocation.
I’ll now turn the call over to Randy.
Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of 289 million or a $1.11 per share for the third quarter.
As Dennis noted excluding notable items EPS increased 10% year-over-year as this quarter was negatively impacted by $0.55 primarily from our annual review of debt consumptions.
While last year’s third quarter benefited $0.05 largely from the annual review.
This year's DAC assumption review results were driven by $121 million negative impact from lowering our long-term earned rate assumption by 50 basis points.
A couple of important items to note this is a non-cash charge and the impact was consistent with the sensitivity we previously provided recall we last lowered this assumption three years ago also by 50 basis points.
Outside of changing our long-term earned rate assumptions there were a series of pluses and minuses that meted to a modest positive impact to operating earnings of 7 million.
A few comments on this year’s review process.
With the 50 basis point reduction in our long-term earned rate we are very well positioned with this particular assumption.
Our ultimate earned rate now assumes only modest annual increases from today’s level increases that are largely in line with the forward curve and significantly below the rate implied by the Federal Reserve’s own expectation.
In conjunction with the 50 basis point reduction and our long-term earned rate we lowered our separate account return assumption by a similar amount.
I will discuss this in more detail in the annuity section of my remarks.
Every year we go through this extensive review of all of the assumptions underlying our debt balances and we consistently have come back with the same results that is that when viewed in total the assumptions underlying our balance sheet are sound.
In fact over the past five years the cumulative impact has been just 0.3% of our equity.
During the same period of time our book value per share excluding AOCI has grown by approximately 40 including 7% this year to $51.47 an all-time high.
Moving to the performance of key financial metrics all which normalized for notable items.
The top-line continues to show growth with operating revenues up 2% driven by another quarter of positive net flows.
Our forward segment showed year-over-year growth in earnings operating return on equity came in at 13.5% and finally our balance sheet remains an important source of strength providing a significant financial flexibility and an ability opportunistically respond to marketplace dislocations.
One other item of note before shifting to segment results and that is investment again this quarter was strong with alternative running 11 million after tax and DAC ahead of our targeted returns.
Prepayment related investment income remains elevated but was right in line with our quarterly average of the past three years.
Now to business results and starting with annuities.
Reported earnings for the quarter were 259 million a 6% increase over last year.
Net favorable items this quarter totaled 5 million primarily related to taxes with 1 million of the total coming from the net impact of our DAC assumption review.
As I noted earlier we did lower our separate account return assumption which is an important input inside annuities DAC models.
This reduction brought our return assumption down to 7.6% compared to 8.2% last year.
We did not unlock our reversion for the main corridor this currently still provides a cushion against weak equity markets.
Return metrics remained strong and consistent with recent periods.
ROA increased 3 basis points versus the prior year while ROE came in at 24% again an outstanding result.
So overall our annuity business continues to generate organic growth and excellent returns.
The financial impact of changes to assumptions that underlie the earnings and valuation of the business was minimal and are a testament to this being a well-managed and strong high quality source of earnings.
Turning to our Life Insurance segment.
Our annual assumption review had the greatest impact on life operations as reported earnings was 36 million.
$118 million of the $121 million earnings impact I noted upfront from lowering our long-term merger rate assumption sell within the life's business.
We now assume an ultimate rate of 5.25% down from 5.75%.
All the other items that went into the unlocking process resulted in a benefit to earnings of 1 million.
Excluding notable items earnings increased 2% over the prior year quarter and notably mortality returned to normal levels following elevated experience in the first half of 2015.
We continue to expect mortality to perform in line with pricing as we look forward.
Normalized spreads came in at 165 basis points down 1 basis points from the prior year.
Quickly on life earnings drivers.
Average account values increased 4% with total in-force base amount of 3% consistent with recent performance in our mid-single digit organic growth expectations.
In the group protection segment earnings were 17 million more than double the prior year quarter and were consistent with the second quarter.
Our non-medical loss ratio improved to 74.5% from 77.6% in the prior year quarter driven by improvement in all product lines life disability and dental.
A disability loss ratio did increase sequentially which I would attribute to normal quarter-to-quarter volatility.
Of price inactions continue to have a favorable impact on margins but they have negatively impacted persistency in sales.
The result is non-medical earned premiums decreased 1% compared to the prior year quarter.
Overall I believe we have another quarter that validates that we are on a pass to an earnings recovery in group protection.
In retirement planned services we reported earnings of $42 million compared to $40 million in the prior year quarter.
This quarter's earnings benefited by $2 million from the annual review of modeled assumptions.
Earnings benefited this quarter from strong investment results including alternative in prepayment income while normalized spreads compressed 10 basis points versus the prior year quarter at the low end of our expectations.
Account values have benefitted from several quarters of positive net flows when combined with modest negative changes in equity markets over the past year average account values increased 1% to $54 billion.
Year-to-date our ROA is 26 basis points a level I expects to be a good proxy in the intermediate term as we continue to make investments in the business to position us well to future growth.
Before I move into Q&amp;A let me comment on capital.
We have a proven ability to generate free cash flow and a track record of returning cash to shareholders.
This quarter we repurchase 200 million of Lincoln shares as we reacted to some weakness in the share price resulting in incremental buyback below book value.
Year-to-date we have repurchased $700 million of stock which is consistent with our full year guidance.
With that said we expect to remain active in the fourth quarter.
We also announced a 25% increase in our shareholder dividend as we have noted in the past we anticipate growing and maintaining a competitive dividend.
As you can see by this quarter's results and more importantly over an extended period of time capital allocation remains a key priority for Lincoln.
Holding company cash ended the quarter at $505 million and statutory surplus stands at 8.3 billion while we estimate our RBC ratio will end the quarter at approximately 495%.
So to conclude statutory and GAAP balance sheets are both in very solid positions as evidenced by strong RBC and holding company cash positions and our annual assumption review did not compromise steady growth and book value per share ex-AOCI.
Organic growth drivers are firmly intact with another quarter of positive net flows across the enterprise.
Mortality returned to normal level following elevated experience earlier in the year.
Annuity earnings remained a high quality source of income and proved to be resilient by market volatility and we took advantage of weakness in the share price with incremental buyback of the lower booked value.
With that let me turn the call over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Your line is open.
I wanted to start with the Department of Labor issue.
I realize that they're still in deliberations in terms of the final proposal but I was wondering Dennis if you could give us a sense of how conversations are going with some of your distribution partners related to scenarios for potential outcomes? I guess there's been some talk in the press about your annuity sales maybe being cut in half for some period of time if the proposal passes as originally proposed.
So I just wanted to get a sense of how you're thinking about either relationship with your distribution partners and the outlook for VAs? Thanks.
Suneet let me speak to the DOL and the specific issue of having a reasonable regulation to permit the sales of variable annuities on a commission basis into IRAs.
That's the biggest area that -- it's the area of focus for Lincoln and the area that we’ve tried and have successfully gotten a correlation of annuity manufacturers to focus on.
On that issue we continue -- I'm not updating anything from what I've said in the past but we continue to feel optimistic based on discussions -- direct discussions with DOL staff that they are giving consideration to permit this to occur.
So on that's specification issue we remain pretty optimistic and if that were to happen I think the idea of VA sales being cut by 50% for IRAs over the qualified market would be way overshot so that's that.
With respect to our other distributors we keep repeating we have a large number of distributors every one of those distributors is looking at DOL if it impacts them and trying to anticipate for the rules were or might be and what reaction they might have to take.
So we're in discussions with them we are aware of the issues we are developing backup plans some of our distributors modestly changed their business models and that's as much as we know today.
Thanks I guess one for Randy.
On the Alternative investment income I was a little surprised that it was so strong in the quarter just given the choppy capital markets.
Can you give us a sense of one where the strength came from and then two is there any kind of lag that we need to think about in terms of how this alternative investment income actually flows through? Well thanks for the question.
It was a strong quarter for alternatives as I mentioned it was 11 million after tax and DAC above expectations.
When you view it over a longer term if you look at for instance the full-year this year we're actually right on top of our expectations of a 10% yield to that portfolio and that's by and large the case over the last couple of years also so I don't think of the performance of the alternatives over an extended period of time of being out of bounds with our expectations in terms of where that performance came this year I think consistent with what you have in alternatives it's oftentimes depends on where you're positioned are you in the hedge fund that didn't too bad or didn't too good are you in PE that has a particularly good quarter? I think we experienced that this quarter we had upper tick PEs that just had good quarters and they had valuation events which led to strong evaluations which led to the strong results.
In terms of predicting the future I’m going to stay out of that game I will stick to what I say and when I say that over an extended period of time we'll expect to see and I think we'll see a 10% return from out of this book of business predicting what you're going to have in any particular quarter is difficult to gain that -- I will choose not to endeavor in it.
I understood I was more asking about if third quarter results are a true reflection of the capital markets environment in the third quarter or was there a little bit of a spillover from the second quarter because of some sort of a lag in terms of how alternatives are reported to you? I think third quarter was reflective of what you see in this business it's a small piece of the portfolio it’s a limited number holding.
This quarter we had some of those that really performed strong and that's what you’re going to have so you get some pieces of that didn't perform so well but we have a certain number of pieces that really performed stronger and that's what you are going to see in this sort of business.
With that over time you will continue to see the result in this business perform in line with our expectations.
Our next question comes from John Nadel from Piper Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Really a question about the mix of Annuity sales.
And I'm sorry if Dennis you addressed it in your prepared remarks because I hopped on just a little bit late.
I was curious about the year-over-year and the quarter-over-quarter decline in variable Annuity sales but obviously a very significant pickup in the pace of what you characterized as fixed annuities.
I'm sure it was more driven by or I'm suspecting it's more driven by index.
Whether you believe that that's an indication of distributors shifting in response to DOL or whether you think that was really much more about just shifting preferences during a period of heightened market volatility? We think it more of the later we think in general whether it’s BA or its mutual fund spikes in volatility kill sales of those products and consumers get more conservative.
We think that’s by BA sales were dampened a little bit against volatility it’s also why we think in a part indexed annuities picked up a little share.
What we continue to point to is that we have the shelf space and the products to be able to sell as consumer preferences shift.
And this is a good example of that.
We’re continuing to focus throughout the businesses improving products adding a better distribution well improving products from a return standpoint by having greater diversification and breath of product.
So we can be successful as consumer preferences and market condition change.
So its answer to the first part is there a hint of the DOL in these sales it is hard to say.
Okay It's hard to say.
And then sort of along those same lines if you could choose to -- the next $1 billion of annuity sales manufactured by Lincoln and I gave you the choice between its 100% variable annuities or 100% indexed annuities what's your choice? Surely what the consumer's choice is more than my choice? I get that.
It's a hypothetical.
But I'm more interested around capital allocation return potential mix of business that sort of thing.
Then I’ll just fall back on our guidance on strategy in terms of mix.
We are very comfortable with 78% of our sales going into BA products that’s have one or the other degree of living benefits.
I mentioned we offered a product or just started offering the product has a little bit more investment flexibility but a little bit less income because we don’t have roll up in it and I think that is a pretty good addition to the portfolio -- BA portfolio that we have inside that 78% guarantee it diversifies risk as the little bit and it also helps in the market place all the financial advisors be it little bit more crisp for their clients in discussing investment only no guarantee of products products with a stronger guarantee and now a middle of the road products.
So we think that’s a pretty good addition I still think the two ends of that spectrum are going to see the most attraction but we do expect that middle segment to get good sales.
Let me just finish up so that’s VA on the fixed annuity side just part of the 30% and we're comfortable with that I think the returns are a little bit less then what we’ve seen on the variable annuities.
So we want manage that mix a little bit.
Okay.
Got it.
And then just one quick follow-up also related to the VA block and that is obviously we saw a period of very heightened market volatility.
I'm just curious how you feel about how the self-hedging or the internal hedging I forget the exact term funds performed this quarter and how you can relate that to -- I know your overall hedge program had a little bit more breakage than I think is typical -- to the volatility managed fund? Thank you.
Let me speak the risk managed funds in general across the industry whether it's in the mutual fund business or in VA business did it perform as well in this period of heightened volatility.
So there was couple of questions about risk management funds performance across all industries not just the VA industry.
Overtime these are designed with a long-term to provide a smoother path of returns for the consumers and we think that’s a good thing.
So I wouldn’t react too much for the fact in a sixty day period they didn’t perform as well.
And randy you want to speak too? Sure John on the hedge program performance there was more breakage this quarter than we have been experienced or that we typically inexperience in the quarter.
Couple of comments it was a quarter with significant amount of volatility in the capital markets to scale that I think over half the days you saw intraday movements of greater than 1%.
When you have that you're going to have some level of breakage and you also -- what you see when you have those sorts of days as you also actually have your trading costs go up which sort of manifests itself as breakage also as you just trading a lot as you're chasing the liability around.
So I am not surprised in a quarter with that sort of volatility to have some level of breakage.
I think what exacerbated it little bit this quarter is the fact that we had our funds underperform in their indexes also.
I’ll just remind you the fund basis risk is what you call overtime if you look at the last decade that’s a number that summed up essentially to zero for us.
So you know that’s the number that can come and go so I wouldn’t be surprised to see that come back at some point in time.
But it's when you get both those sort of items a very volatile quarter on the capital markets you combine it with that fund basis risk and you have a quarter like we did this quarter with a little more breakage.
I would point out when viewed over more extended period of time I think last time I looked at this I looked at it over the last six years breakage and the hedge program was a 1% to 2% impact on the overall ROE.
I think the whole overall ROE over that period was 22% and if you included the below the line items it was just 1% to 2% reduction from that so still very very confident in performance in the hedge program over more extended period of time but understand that this quarter did have a little more breakage than usual.
Okay understand.
Thank you so much for the color and the answers.
Our next question comes from Tom Gallagher Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Randy wanted to start with the lowering of the long-term separate account return assumptions down to 7.6.
Can you take us underneath the covers a little bit explain how that affected the balance sheet review? You didn't have any charge associated with that.
What would have been some of the offsetting adjustments? Sure well it's primarily an item essentially all the impact shows up in the annuity business.
You get a little bit in the life business and a real little bit in the RPS business.
It's primarily an item that impacts the annuity business.
Really the driver of the reduction Tom I would really point to what drove us to lower our ultimate earned rate assumption essentially a reflection that risk free rates are going to be a little lower when you look forward and that said through to our thoughts on what overall capital markets returns would be.
So as I mentioned we ended up lowering the separate account return assumption by a similar amount to what we lowered that J-curve assumption.
In terms of the impact as I mentioned is primarily in the Annuity business.
It was definitely a negative item not going to get into sizing of the dollar amount but it was definitely negative it was offset inside of annuities by all the other assumptions that go into the process lapses fee income all those other items that go into the process add it up to be a positive number that offsets the negative number that was caused by lowering the separate account return assumption.
Okay.
And then what's the size of the reversion to mean equity cushion as of the end of this quarter? In total it’s in the range of $165 million 130 million of that in the annuity business with small pieces in life and RPS.
Got you.
And then Randy after making that change any impact on earnings? I presume there's going to be some change in DAC amortization after you change the separate account return assumptions.
But should we think about any go-forward operating earnings impact that's meaningful at all? Tom both the J-curve and the separate account return assumption have modest negative impacts on run rate earnings it's not a number I’m going to spike out and say that I would see significant changes to your models.
Both of them have modest negative impacts on run rate.
Okay.
And then last question.
Just in lieu of what's happened in the Life business including the adjustment this quarter any impact on goodwill testing that we should think about for next quarter or is there still enough margin there? Yes and once again you know we do this analysis in the fourth quarter so I’m not going to get ahead of all that analysis and I am going to look to the items I have talked about in the past when it comes to goodwill testing.
The big drivers first off we have two business that have typically gone to step two of a goodwill analysis Life Insurance and Group Protection.
The big drivers of goodwill for those businesses are the level of sales the profitability on those sales the discount rates you apply to those sales.
When you look at those three metrics I think they continue to run strong.
Life sales continue to grow group sales while down are still very strong relative to the size of that book to business profitability on life sales remain strong profitability on group business we’ve talked about remains strong and discount rates are nowhere but down compared to where they were in past year.
So the big three items that I think about when I'm open to think about what might be coming on good will seemed to be pointed in a favorable direction so we’ll go ahead and do the analysis in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And if I could just sneak in one last one on I saw the RBC $495 million still pretty strong despite the pickup in buybacks.
How about if you looked at consolidated capitalization of the Company any meaningful changes to Hodlco cash during the quarter? Hodlco cash came down a little bit I think it came down from maybe in the 540 to the 505 range so it came down a little bit but it still in excess of our targeted amount 500 million it’s very comfortable there.
Overall RBC at 495 as you mentioned remains very strong and very supportive of continued capital deployment as you’ve seen in the past.
Our next question comes from Seth Weiss from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Randy last quarter I think you commented on expectations to perhaps do a reserve financing transaction in the back half of the year.
Could you just provide an update on that please? Yes so thanks for the question.
We do expect to do a reserve financing transaction in the fourth quarter it’s around term business that we've written over the last couple of years so I’d expect to see that come to as a positive item on capital in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And are you able to size that for us or too early to say? In the range and we've typically talked about a couple of $100 million being fairly typical in that area maybe a little better but in that area.
Great.
Thanks.
And Dennis if I could just return to the DOL topic for a moment.
The comments today I think are pretty consistent with what you said at the industry conference last month in terms of DOL staff giving consideration to permit commissioned sales to occur.
From what we're hearing here our impression was that avenue was through the best interest contract which has obviously gotten pushback from the VA manufacturer community.
So I'm just curious when you say that your discussions have yielded this cautious optimism are you hearing anything different when it comes to maybe a separate VA carve-out or inclusion in the 8424 exemption? You've touched on the two big paths to the right answer and if you look at the letter that was signed by eight or nine of these annuity companies of both -- our first choice would be to put VAs backs in 8424 the way 8424 exist.
It was that way for 30 years it was that way in 2010 initial proposal and it’s only in this later proposal -- I think it was 2010 as knowing this later proposal what was moved into best interest contract exemption.
But if remains -- I guess if I had to -- it’s more uphill on 8424.
But if it's in the best interest contracting exemption has the be provided a framework for in our letters I think they’ll still give consideration to separating out annuities from mutual funds because it's just different.
So that’s more detailed to just go and take a look at our letter it's pretty consistent with what I've just said.
Our next question comes from Michael Kovac from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks.
This is maybe for Dennis.
You talked about the risked managed funds and I guess I was a little surprised that they underperformed in this period given I imagine that a consumer is really buying them to outperform exactly in the kind of market that we saw in the third quarter.
As you spoke to this is not really a Lincoln specific but more of an industry issue.
I guess I'm wondering what are your thoughts going forward on the consumer appetites for this kind of product particularly in VA if it is underperforming in a volatile and sort of a rising market as well.
I think that the -- I’m going to speak very generally here these overlays are intended to operate over a long period of time and they should perform well over a long period of time all the back testing and that's done in the development of the products suggest that.
I would characterize the last 90 days as unusual in the sense that you has so many V shaped patterns to the S&amp;P market in such a short period of time Randy addressed that in the discussion of the hedging program and why that volatility lead to some more breakage similarly I discussed volatility just as a chilling effect on equity based product in general mutual funds and VAs.
And the other point I would say is that even though the risk management overlay and the performance is improved a little bit by the way in the last 30 days again this is industry wide.
Remember that this is at the end of the spectrum of product design where people pay a lot of attention to the guarantee and the guarantee is working for them just as it should the roll ups working the payout down the road is still what the expectations are.
So I think it would be hard to say based on 90 days the consumers are cooling over the long-term or not again I think you have to take control of the expectations by the consumer both in terms of fund performance as well as guarantee on these products remember the only way you can get the high income guarantee in the industry with maybe one exception is through the use of risk managed funds does that helpful? Yes that's helpful.
And then if I could one more on VA here? It sounded like you added an additional $2 billion to your reinsurance capacity for this product.
What do you see as the appetite from reinsurers to this type of risk? Do you see more participants in the market or any changing terms that you got on this transaction versus prior? Randy could you take that please? Yes Michael the extension was with the same company that we have the reinsurer’s treaty with previously.
I would describe the overall environment is still relatively modest from the number of people who are -- I think you see a little more interest.
I think the very fact that the company we did our deal with did the deal raised some interest and has caused some people to look at it.
But I don't think it’s the huge number of participants you get out there in the marketplace.
We'll continue to work I think we obviously have a lot of connections anybody who would be interested in doing reinsurance is naturally going to be in discussion with us and we'll continue those sorts of discussions but I wouldn't describe the marketplace as robust.
Our next question comes from Jimmy Bhullar from J.P.
Morgan.
Your line is open.
So Randy I had a question on just your repricing of the disability book.
If you could describe how much you're done or will be done by the end of this year and what's the environment like in terms of clients absorbing price hikes? Your sales I think this quarter were down 35%.
As we look at year-end renewing cycles should we expect a similar decline in sales and then obviously weaker revenues next year? I think I will take that.
At the highest so we start at the high level answer to that question.
About 78% of the business that we have to reprice because it was poorly priced a couple of years ago --the business that was poorly priced a couple of years ago we're about 78% of the way through and so we have a little bit more to do but a good example by the way on that business is year-to-date on the premium that we retain we’ve gotten really high middle single digit improvements in margins our pricing activities are proving out to be successful and that earnings will flow into the income statement over time.
As I mentioned in my remarks the pipeline of sales is above and that's a good indicator of premium growth or sales momentum.
With respect to the retention rate of business as we go through the next 60 to 90 days of re-pricing based on what we're doing we would think the retention might be a little bit better than 60% but will have to see.
And then on the legal loss you've had higher legal expenses for the past couple of quarters.
I think partly this is related to your Life Insurance business but to what extent do you expect them to sustain or are the issues behind you now? We have a pretty good review of aggregate litigation issues in our SEC filings and so I'm not going to get into very specific answer to this question I’ve watched this over the last decade litigation ebbs and flows for all companies insurance companies financial services companies as well I think there is no exceptional to that sort of the aggregate amount of cases that you have and the severity of those cases at any one point in time ebb and flow we’ll continue to see that.
I do not expect that particularly this quarter would be any indication of a normal level of legal expense Our next question comes from Ryan Krueger from KBW.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
I had a follow-up for Randy.
I know you mentioned that mortality was in line but can you give us any more detail on either actual-to-expected mortality or another metric that you look at and maybe how it compared to the year ago quarter? Yes I think compared to the year ago quarter I described both quarters as in line with our expectations.
So our expectations are for a number that typically travels in the 80% and we’re right in that range.
So I don’t think there was anything abnormal about either quarter.
Of course the first-half there we had elevated experience I would have loved to see it coming below expectations but it doesn’t it came in sort of right in line with our expectations very similar to where we were last year in the third quarter.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then in the annuity business the normalized ROA was 83 basis points which was up a bit from the second quarter despite the weaker market.
Do you think that the 83 basis points is a good run rate going forward or should we be thinking about anything else there? As we mentioned I think both Dennis and I mentioned we're very happy with the resilience of annuity results despite the drag of the markets.
In terms of what we would expect I mentioned that the business had 5 million of items primarily favorable tax item little bit 1 million or so from the unlocking process.
We also mentioned that Alternative Investment income added 11 million across the enterprise most of that was in Life but annuity got a little bit of it couple of million and then the prepayment income.
If you look at last quarter prepayment income was actually very low whereas this quarter it was strong.
Which is sort of reflective of the nature of prepayment income.
Quarter-to-quarter is going to hop around but over the last three years if you look over a calendar year period it’s been very very steady in the amounts that we’ve received in fact was very similar to the amount we received this quarter.
So I think the fact that it hopped up had to do with one first and foremost the resilient for the business and secondly strong performance in the investment portfolio.
Got it.
And then just last one real quick.
Do you have an update on the assets and liabilities in the VA assets? They continue to run very strong so assets exceed the hedge target by $1.4 billion I believe at the end of the quarter so it's still a very comfortable margin and they also exceed the statutory reserve credit by a significant amount $800 million $900 million in excess of statutory reserve credit needed.
So in a very good position on assets of course they had hedge performance in the quarter heard that little bit but once again look at hedge performance over an expanded period of time I wouldn’t expect to see this sort of quarter repeated.
Our next question comes from Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
All my questions have been answered.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Humphrey Lee from Dowling &amp; Partners.
Your line is open.
Just have a question about the latest NAIC proposal about eliminating -- potentially eliminating the use of VA captives.
Any color or comments from the proposal? Yes the -- let me explain what the problem is to begin with and that is that statutory accounting is on a book value basis and hedging typically is on an economic basis and in entail situations those two things can different.
And so it could create some temporary capital calls and severe capital market conditions.
I think the regulators understand the idea that a regulated company having prepared against one risk and because of it’s the exact opposite of the other risk not being able to protect that other risk is not in good regulatory situation.
So the industry and the regulators are striving to achieve a regulatory framework that permits all of us to probably hedge the risk that we undertake.
The NAIC is hired Oliver Wyman as a consultant Oliver Wyman has put out his first report and although much needs to be -- there is a lot of detailing into it the initial report seems to get at solving this problem.
So at this point we’re encouraged there is a long way to go and Lincoln is active as we typically are in working with regulators on this issue.
But I met regularly with the regulators.
I think there's a pretty good sense of let's get to a good answer for the regulators and let's get a good answer for the industry.
I think at least from my understanding there will be some -- obviously some positives and negatives and to the extent that the capital requirement may turn out to be lower or maybe more on an economic base as opposed to a prescribed model and at the same time you may get some benefits from better ignition of the attached assets.
So those would potentially to provide some offsets if there's some challenges to the use of captives.
Would that be a fair statement? You said a lot of -- you gave us a lot of issues in there and I’ll just fall back to the issue is to get a regulation that makes sense with the industry and to the regulators again the situation now in book value versus economic creating a problem we are making progress on that issue and some of the things that you've mentioned are helpful on that specific issues some of them I wasn’t quite sure of where they are in discussions right now but again overall it's positive and we’re all regulators and the industry is hopeful that we can get to a solution that makes sense for everyone.
Thanks.
And then just one last question for Randy.
So you talked about fourth quarter in terms of buybacks will remain active and then you also mentioned about the potential reserve financing in the fourth quarter.
Should we think about the buyback were largely driven by reserve financing or do you still have some kind of free cash flow generation capacity that would add onto the reserve financing? When you think about overall buybacks we’re 700 million year-to-date so that's over tax full year guidance we came into the year and that’s reflective of a number of things including strong capital generation continued strong performance from the company.
When you look to the fourth quarters specifically I think I would describe my expectations coming in the quarter as sort of as a normal quarter alright.
We've been running in that 150 range on the 2 550 range so I don’t go into the quarter with any expectations for anything outside but we continue to have a very strong balance sheet and we continue to have the capability to step in when we see dislocations in the marketplace as we did in the third quarter when we stepped in and hopped the buyback amount when we saw the share price dip below book value.
Our next question comes from Steven Schwartz from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
A couple of quickies.
Dennis you mentioned the loss of a large case of retirement plan in the fourth quarter.
I was hoping that maybe you could size it for us and give us a little background? And then for Randy I would follow up Tom's question and ask about the actuarial assumption review and what kind of effect that might have on a go forward basis for the life business? The case was about 600 million to 675 million in that range.
And Randy you want to take the rest of that? Sure Steven I'm not going to go beyond what I said earlier which is both assumption changes and the primary one that impacts the Life business happens to be the change in the J-curve ultimate earned rate we have modest negative impacts on run rate or so there will be a modest negative impact on Life earnings.
I don't think of it as a number that would significantly change your models or your expectations.
The business continues to grow also as I mentioned.
Drivers in that business continue to grow 3% 4%.
So while there will be a modest negative impact for a period of time it's not a number that I can consider to be as such that I'm going to spike anything out.
Okay.
Thanks Randy.
I thought you were just referring to Annuities at the time.
But Steven just back for the question on the outflow I do around want to reinforce and repeat what I said earlier which is.
We expect flows to be positive in RPS to the year which is quite an improvement over where we were last year.
Dennis what's the background of that loss? Is it a merger? Is it pricing? Can you fill that out? Pricing and again losing businesses -- a good thing but the minimum guarantee in that contract was pretty high and still we weren’t making a lot of money on it and so weren’t as competitive as some other were to get the business.
At this time I'm showing no further question.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Chris Giovanni for closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining us this morning.
Apologizes I'm running a few minutes over.
But as always we are around to take your questions at the Investor Relations line at (800) 237-2920 or through email at investorrelations@lfg.com.
Thank you and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participating in today’s conference.
This does conclude the program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good morning.
And thank you for joining Lincoln Financial Group's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all lines are in listen-only mode.
Later we will announce the opportunity for questions and instructions will be giving at that time.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Chris Giovanni.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Michelle.
Good morning and welcome to Lincoln Financial’s fourth quarter earnings call.
Before we begin I have an important reminder.
Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations trends and market conditions including comments about sales and deposits expenses income from operations and liquidity and capital resources are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
These risks and uncertainties are described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday and our reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln Financial’s website www.lincolnfinancial.com where you can find our press release and statistical supplement which include a full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in the call including income from operations and return on equity to their most comparable GAAP measures.
One finally that I want to remind you that Lincoln will hold an Investor Day in New York City on June 9.
We hope that many of you will be able to join us there.
Presenting on today’s call are Dennis Glass President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
With that I would now like to turn things over to Dennis.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Fourth quarter results once again demonstrated the resilience of Lincoln’s franchise as we had a solid finish in what proved to be a volatile year for capital markets.
Our EPS excluding notable items increased 5% in the fourth quarter.
Under the same measure for the full year our EPS also increased 5% which resulted in a ROE of just over 12%.
As we begin 2016 we recognize that there are number of questions around the impact of weak capital markets on our businesses and Randy will discuss this later.
However it’s important note we have placid momentum in key business drivers and our strategic initiatives are enabling us to execute on our growth profitability and capital management initiatives.
Some of that - examples of these include consolidated net flows of 1.4 billion in the quarter nearly doubled to prior year quarter and up 9% for the full year.
Individual life insurance sales increased 11% in the fourth quarter while total life insurance sales were up 8% in 2015.
Our book value per share excluding AOIC is now over $52 a record and up 6% from the prior area.
Balance sheet strength combined with solid capital generation enabled us to deploy another 250 million towards buybacks and dividends in the fourth quarter increasing our total capital return to shareholders in 2015 to $1.1 billion.
Now turning to our business lines starting with individual life as I noted up front individual life insurance sales were very strong this quarter up 11% of total life insurance sales of 725 million in 2015 or up more than 8%.
It is worth spending a few minutes digging into some product stories as sales from many of our products increased double digits in the fourth quarter.
MoneyGuard sales increased 15% as we continued to benefit from market acceptance of our MoneyGuard II product and traction in recently approved states growths.
For the full year MoneyGuard had record sales.
Indexed Universal Life sales increased 13% as we were helped by a new product launch and regulation that began in September that required many competitors to make significant reductions in maximum illustration rates.
This resulted in an improvement in our competitive position.
Finally Term up 19% and VUL up 12% also benefited from product enhancements.
As a reminder our focus on sales is not just to grow but to grow profitably with a diversified mix of products and the tilt away from long-term guarantees.
In the fourth quarter we once again achieved these objectives.
With expected new business returns within our targeted range of 12% to 15% and those single products represented more than 30% of our total production.
Also 65% of our sales did not have long-term guarantees.
Our outlook for life insurance business remains positive as our diversified product portfolio combined with the depth and breadth of our distribution distinguishes Lincoln in the market place.
Turning to group protection we’re pleased with continued progress we are making with our re-pricing efforts and the improvement of our claims management effectiveness.
Earnings once again increased from depressed results in the prior year quarter.
Fourth quarter sales of 223 million were down 11% from the same period last year and full year sales were down 16%.
With our pricing actions on the poor performing employer paid slot [ph] largely behind us our renewal actions have moderated.
So we continue to build additional margins into our book of business.
As our pricing actions are stabilized the degree of market disruption has been reduced and we see the pace of the sales activity improving.
For example our disability sales decreased just 9% in the quarter after being down 30% through the first nine months of 2015.
We expect continued improvement in sales activity and growth to reemerge during 2016 after two straight years of declining sales.
This will be important as we look to drive future margin improvement by growing premiums and sustaining our pricing discipline.
Turning to annuities our annuity business remains a high quality source of earnings as we posted strong operating results and minimal hedge breakage in the quarter.
Total annuity sales were 3 billion and we continued to consistently generate positive organic growth with 435 million of net flows in the quarter and 1.6 billion for the full year.
As I noted last quarter market volatility dampened demand for most equity sense of products including variable annuities and it was hard to tell if the Department of Labor proposal was also having an impact on industry sales.
Given continued interest on the DOL combined obvious overhang on our stock we wanted to give you more specifics how we are internally approaching the DOL proposal.
First it is important to note that there are a number of possible outcomes which we’re planning for including some I have mentioned in the past that would be less owners on these than the original proposal.
This morning I was specifically focused on this scenario where no changes are made to the current proposal as that is the situation we get asked about most frequently.
While this is the most adverse scenario it is manageable for Lincoln.
So I would note a few things.
One in the fourth quarter we had nearly $0.5 million of positive net flows only 30% of our sales came from products that would be impacted by the DOL proposal namely variable annuities within qualified plans.
This compares to nearly 60% for the top 10 VA riders.
Point two it is also important to note the DOL proposal does not impact the nonqualified market where our patented i4LIFE has long been known as the income product of choice and has resulted in Lincoln being the market leader in nonqualified VA sales.
Point three a few years back we decided to focus on diversifying our mix of annuity sales tilting away from VAs with living benefits and lowering our risk profile without having a meaningful impact on returns.
As part of this pivot our sales of our sales of products that are not impacted by the DOL proposal has increased to 70% of total sales up from 50% pre-pivot.
Importantly given our focus and momentum on diversification we would expect this percentage to continue to increase further reducing our dependence on sales impacted by the DOL proposal.
My next point sales of VA in qualified plans will not entirely go away as the current proposal allows some products to be sold on a commissionable basis and many distributors will continue to offer the important guarantees that VAs provide.
In addition we would expect to see accelerated growth in our fee-based VA products as we have been approached by many of our largest distribution partners about the fee-based opportunity.
We’re also increasing our focus on fixed and indexed annuities which still have the PTE 8424 exemption.
Finally recall we have said that if there is a sales disruption we would be able to reallocate capital to share buybacks to block much of the EPS impact over the next several years as we pivot to the extent required a skill and capability we have successfully demonstrated in the past.
So I believe companies like Lincoln with market leader positions and F-scale that have a broad portfolio of products along with leading distribution will continue to succeed.
Let me turn to retirement plan services.
In retirement plan services earnings and net flows were consistent with our outlook.
Total deposits for the quarter of 2.1 billion were down 10% however excluding one large case from the prior year deposit increased nearly 40%.
Full-year results for a very good story with a record total deposits of $7.5 billion supported by strength in both small and mid to large markets.
Notably small market deposits were up 18% to a record 2.1 billion and mid to large market one two times as many plants as compared to the prior year.
Total outflows for the quarter were negative 220 million and included a large-case termination we referenced on our third quarter call.
Full-year net flows increased to 452 million compared to outflows of 881 million in the prior year.
The increase was driven by our strong deposits and improvement in our retention rate as we benefit from our strategic investments.
Looking ahead to 2016 we would not be surprised to see lumpiness quarter-to-quarter in net flows.
However we expect our net flows will exceed 2015 levels.
This confidence is driven by our strategy which aligns the fastest growing market with customers that value our high-touch service model.
This combination enables us to better defend profitability and achieve our target returns.
Bottom line we remain optimistic in the growth outlook for our retirement business.
Lastly on investment management we put new money to work in the fourth quarter at an average yield of 4.3% which was consistent with recent quarters and 210 basis points over the average ten-year treasury.
Following strong results in our alternatives portfolio in the third quarter alternatives did not contribute to earnings this quarter which makes our EPS growth even more impressive.
Over the last four years our alternatives portfolio has returned more than 10% annually at a level we target over the long run.
Our investment portfolio is high quality and diversified by industry geography and insurance.
We ended the year with a net unrealized gain of approximately 3 billion and our below investment grade exposure is just 5.1% of invested assets a slight improvement from the prior year.
With the recent volatility and weakness in the energy market I want to update you on our exposure.
First it is worth noting that we stopped investing in the energy sector a year ago.
And since the end of 2014 we have reduced our fixed income energy exposure by nearly $1 billion.
This included approximately 400 million in maturities and roughly 600 million of asset sales based on an assessment of our exposures with our external asset managers.
Importantly these sales produced fewer losses than what was in our capital plan.
At year-end the market value of our 8.6 billion energy portfolio was 95% of book value.
Our high-yield energy exposure was about 600 million up modestly from the prior-year due to ratings migration and represented just 7.5% of our energy exposure.
We continued to proactively monitor and manage our energy exposure.
So in closing I’m very pleased we were able to grow EPS mid-single digits in 2015 despite equity market declines persistently low interest rates and mortality fluctuations.
We showed great progress on several strategic initiatives including restoring profitability and group protection growth in RPS highlighted by significant improvement in net flows continued momentum in our annuity ticket which positions us well for the DOL and strong life new business returns.
Bottom line we remain confident in our franchise and our ability to grow earnings.
With that let me turn the call over to Randy.
Thank you Dennis.
Last night we reported income from operations of 382 million or $1.54 per share for the fourth quarter.
The current quarter did not include any notable items and as Dennis mentioned EPS increased 5% year-over-year excluding $0.20 of favorable items in the prior year quarter primarily related to our reinsurance recapture.
Under the same measure full-year EPS increased 5% to $6.04.
One other item to point to specific to the fourth quarter alternative investment income was 18 million below our plan or $0.07 per share.
Moving to the performance of key financial metrics all of which normalized for notable items top line growth remained strong with operating revenue up 6% for the quarter and for the full-year driven by positive net flows in every quarter of the year and product mix shift.
Continued focus on managing the expenses created further margin expansion as the 4% growth in annual G&amp;A net of capitalized expenses trailed revenue growth.
Book value per share excluding AOCI was 6% to $52.38.
Operating return on equity came in at 12% for the quarter and 12.2% for the full year.
Our balance sheet remains an important source of strength with strong capital and liquidity metrics which gives us significant financial flexibility.
And finally our year-end cash flow testing continues to point to significant statutory reserve adequacy and we do not anticipate reserve deficiencies in any of our entities.
And we completed our good will review and did not have any impairment’s.
Net income results for the quarter were negatively impacted by a few items the largest of which was a noneconomic charge of 43 million related to nonperformance risk which is the result of our own credit spread narrowing in the quarter.
Hedge breakage was modest at just 13 million.
Before moving to segment results I wanted to provide some perspective on the current market environment.
First on the recent activity market weakness this obviously presents a headwind to earnings growth and we’ve been very clear on the sensitivity roughly $9 million for every 1% move in equity markets.
Also it is worth reminding you that we have a reverse into the mean approach within our DAC models and as of year-end it’s provided a cushion against weak equity markets.
Next the interest rate environment we know that our interest rates remain topical but it's important to recognize that we have effectively managed through persistently low rates and we’ll continue to do so.
Importantly our product portfolio has been re-priced over the past several years to reflect a low interest rate environment.
And last quarter we lowered our long-term earned rate which leaves us very well positioned with this particular assumption.
Bottom line low rates remain just an earnings headwind and the impact is consistent with the 2% to 3% we have noticed in the past.
So despite the current capital market environment we remain confident in our ability to grow EPS.
Now I will turn to segment results and starting with annuities.
Reported earnings for the quarter were 243 million a 3% increase over the last year.
Operating revenues increased to 12% from the fourth quarter of 2014 as premiums benefited from an increase in fixed annuity deposits.
Positive net flows in every quarter of 2015 resulted in average account balances reaching the 124 billion up 4%.
Return metrics remained strong and consistent with recent periods.
For the full year ROA increased three basis points while ROE came in at 24%.
Notably return on equity has exceeded 20% for the past three years and has averaged 20% for nearly a decade.
Outstanding results that highlight the returns that are high-quality annuity book can deliver.
In retirement plan services we reported earnings of $33 million.
Fourth-quarter revenue growth was unchanged year-over-year without annual revenue growth up 1%.
Average account values ended the year at $54 billion up 3% compared to 2014 driven by positive net flows.
Normalized spreads compressed 11 basis points for the year.
This is at the low end of our guidance and looking forward we continue to expect spreads to decline by 10 to 15 basis points.
Return on assets was 25 basis points for the fourth quarter and 26 basis points for the full year.
2015 was a good year for the retirement business highlighted by record deposits nearly $0.5 billion dollars of net flows and returns that fell within our targeted range.
While earnings will fight the headwinds of low interest rates in weak equity markets start of the year we expect to see continued growth in net flows.
The life insurance segment reported fourth-quarter earnings of $119 million compared to a $140 million last year after normalizing items primarily related to the reinsurance recapture.
Of the 18 million of below plan alternative investments that I noted upfront 12 million of it is the life business.
Mortality results were consistent with the third quarter following elevated experience in the first half of 2015.
But I would notice the mix of claims was a little different so the financial impact was slightly worse than we would have hoped.
An example of this would be a higher proportion of Term plans that have less reserve offsets than a typical interest sensitive claim.
Normalized spreads in the fourth quarter were down two basis points quarter-over-quarter and down six basis points for the full year.
Looking forward we continue to expect spreads to decline by 5 to 10 basis points on an annual basis.
Earnings drivers remain steady for the quarter and year with the average account balances up 3% to 4% and life insurance in force up 3%.
Overall this year’s earnings were dragged down by elevated mortality which overshadowed strong sales results.
While we continue to assume first-quarter results will be negatively impacted by typical seasonality we do not expect 2015’s elevated mortality to persist in the coming year.
Group protection earnings of 13 million compared to a loss of 7 million with the prior year quarter.
Our non-medical loss ratio improved to 75.3% from 81% in the prior year quarter driven by our life and disability product lines which benefited from pricing actions and improvements in disability claims management.
For the full year our loss ratio improved by 300 basis points and we expect further progress in 2016.
Our renewal pricing actions continue to have a favorable impact on margins but they have negatively impacted persistency in sales.
The result of the non-medical earned premiums decreased 5% compared to the prior year quarter.
Our extensive re-pricing of policy renewals also has an impact on DAC amortization.
With the first quarter of heaviest renewal period the amortization impact is greatest in this period.
In the first quarter we expect this acceleration of DAC to pressure earnings relative for the most recent run rate.
So overall another quarter that validates we are on a path to earnings recovery and we expect further improvement in our underwriting profitability in 2016.
As with the sales momentum Dennis mentioned starts to build and emerges into premium we believe margins will continue to improve.
Let me discuss capital management and our capital position before we turn to Q&amp;A.
This quarter we repurchased 200 million of Lincoln shares.
For the full year we repurchased 900 million of stock which is a 38% increase from the prior year.
When combined with a 25% increase in our dividend per share total deployment to shareholders increased to $1.1 billion.
We have a proven ability to generate free cash flow and as importantly we have actually returned to that cash to shareholders with share buybacks totally $3.1 billion over the last five years and dividends more than tripling over the same period.
Historically I have pointed to 45% to 50% of operating earnings as a good proxy for free cash flow.
But what is available for buybacks and dividends? Based on the shift in our product mix notably the successful pivots within our life and annuity businesses I’m increasing our outlook to 50% to 55%.
This positions us well to remain active returning capital to shareholders and the recent weakness in the share price enables us to acquire stock below book value an excellent use of capital.
It is also worth noting our revised free cash flow estimate does not include the reallocation of capital under the adverse DOL scenario Dennis spoke to earlier.
Quickly on capital and liquidity where we are extremely well positioned with statutory surplus at 8.4 billion and an estimated RBC ratio of 490% holding company cash at 608 million is well above our target of 500 million and we remain comfortable with our current leveraging capital structure and you would know our next debt maturity is not until 2018.
With that let me turn the call back over to Chris.
Thank you Dennis and Randy.
We will now begin the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
As a reminder we ask you to please limit yourself to one question and just one follow-up then re-queue if you have additional questions.
So with that let me turn things over to the operator.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Randy Binner of FBR.
Your line is open.
Great good morning thanks.
Lots of things to touch on but I guess I’ll start with Randy at the end there in the buybacks so you have some positive commentary around free cash flow and generally good comments are on the business the stocks down quite a bit as you mentioned below book value.
So is there any way that you can kind of guess the buyback here and accelerate what you might do to take advantage of the low share price? Hey Randy thanks for the question.
When you look at our buyback practices over the last four or five years we’d pointed you to 45% to 50% of free cash flow.
In actuality we exceeded that.
We averaged about 51% of the normalized - the extra 200 million we did last year related to the reinsurance recapture.
So we have been leveraging our balance sheet to take advantage.
At times we felt the stock price was depressed and we did that in the third and fourth quarter as we stepped in and elevated our share repurchase of 200 million.
So we're definitely cognizant of share price and we will definitely step in when we think that the share price is depressed which definitely we see today.
All that being said we are going to be cognizant of the environment that exists today and the environment appears to be a little riskier than it was three to six months ago.
So we are going to take that into account.
But we're definitely going to be active in the share repurchase market and step in and reflect the fact that we're generating strong free cash flows to increase our guidance and we will access the strength of our balance sheet when we see it reasonable.
When you see the macro environment has been more risky is it for you - from where you said for Lincoln is it more of a credit risk issue or is it more of kind of a continued low for a long interested environment issue? Yeah I think for us if you think about the risks the risk associated with declining equity markets are covered by our hedge program which continues to perform at a very high level.
So you really don't see a balance sheet issue from there you see earnings that went up stock [ph] to about a $9 million per 1% decrease.
You have interest-rate risk and I talked about that not really being a balance sheet issue at this point in time and it's still just an earnings headwind issue and so we continue to manage that.
So from a balance sheet standpoint it becomes credit risk.
We haven’t been through a credit cyclone a while and we may be entering or we may not be.
Now as we enter [Indiscernible] - I feel very comfortable with our overall position and very strong balance sheet a balance sheet that arguably is in a position to handle any stress that comes its way.
So we feel very comfortable with where we are.
But I would agree with you that overall this is primarily a stress that will feature credit.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
You bet.
Our next question comes from Nigel Dally of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks good morning.
So first question was on the DOL.
You mentioned the fee-based VAs an alternative to get around some of the DOL restrictions.
Can you comment on the average ten profile of fee-based versus commission-based VAs and just on that point the distributors they haven’t had the systems in place to offer annuities on their fee-based platform towards that some more of an intermediate solution? Nigel this is Dennis.
I'm sorry; you broke up a little bit there.
Could you repeat the question? Sure.
Just on the Department of Labor potentially introducing fee-based VAs as a way to get around some of those restrictions just hoping to get some differential as to how the returns favor on fee-based versus commission-based and also where the distributors had the systems in place to battle the sell fee-based VA? Yeah on the returns they would be roughly equivalent between a front end commission and a trailer type fee-based product; I mean that's the way that we would price the product.
The second point again I'm not quite sure on.
But as I said in my remarks I think I heard it correctly there are people who are looking for ways to get valuable living benefits to their customers and looking at our fee-based products which we’ve already developed.
We don't do a lot of that today.
But with the DOL it pushes some of the distributors in that direction.
We have the product portfolio to respond positively.
Okay and then just second one Randy this question to you do you have the unrealized loss on the high-yield portion of those exposures? Yeah let me answer to that question.
I think - but I know at the end of the fourth quarter the unrealized loss was about $500 million and with spreads widening in the energy portfolio grew a couple of 100 million.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from Suneet Kamath of UBS.
Your line is open.
Thanks I wanted to start with the life business in the outlook for alternative investments given that some of this is reported on a lag Randy do you have a sense of how 1Q is shaping up and have you changed your view in terms of alternatives for full-year ‘16? Suneet thanks for the question.
No we really haven't changed our view as you know - as we report alternative returns you have the private equity piece which makes up roughly two-thirds of our portfolio which is reported on a one-quarter lag and so that will be linked to the third quarter of 2015 which was a pretty good quarter in the equity markets.
So I think you will see that in the results.
Separate from that you have hedge funds which reported on a one-month lag so you will see some of the first quarter impact inside of the hedge fund returns.
But overall it hasn’t causes to change our overall guidance or thoughts on what alternatives will return over a more extended period of time.
But also note that when you think about alternatives especially portfolio of ours which is not that big at $1.2 billion you can get that one-off situation where a particular investment in our size return one also lost in a [ph] particular period so you also have to think about those sorts of things.
Okay and then just pivoting to the DOL Dennis in your opening comments which were helpful I think you spent some time talking about qualified versus nonqualified and I guess the question is as we talk to some of our industry contacts there is a view in the industry that whatever happens to the qualified market will ultimately in some ways you perform happen to the nonqualified market as the SEC opines on fiduciary standards.
That's what we're hearing from industry contacts.
I wanted to get a sense of what your thoughts are on that? Well my thoughts? We don't even know what the DOL rules are going to be yet and there is a lot of speculation about what they might become.
Some people more positive some people more negative.
So I thank it's even harder to speculate about what the SEC might do with respect to any outcome that comes out of the DOL’s proposal.
So I just think it's very hard to speculate and I would say with some confidence that anything you hear is just pure speculation could be right or it could be wrong.
This is Chris.
I just want to clean up one item just on the comment around the unrealized losses the $500 million was as of the end of the third quarter the other additional 200 was through the fourth quarter.
And operator if we could move to the next question.
Our next question comes from Yaron Kinar of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good morning everybody.
First question is more strategic I guess strategic thinking.
Given that the market does not seem to be giving Lincoln shares the credit for the diversification of the business and the high returns and given what we’ve seen announce from one of your competitors about potential split up does that kind of thought - is there room for such thought in the Lincoln’s board room today or is it something like that you consider? Consider? It's a pretty open question.
The big picture answer to I think - are you asking if we would change the makeup of our company and the way MET is changing the makeup of their company? Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm just going to answer that by saying we believe in the businesses that we are in subject to all the comments that we’ve made about them today.
We're making progress overall some things to do better.
But at the end of the day obviously and we’ve demonstrated this from the past whatever is in the best long-term interest of our shareholders and I say long-term interest of our shareholders I think reactions to ups and downs in the stock price in a short period of time is not the way we think about things.
It’s just over the long-term we are building value for our shareholders.
And with respect to MET let me just make a couple of comments.
One Steve is a great guy and he has got strong management team and I’m sure whatever they end up doing is going to benefit the shareholders.
When I come back to their individual life business and I think about it from a competitive perspective us competing against them is I understand what - the attempt to achieve or the split up is to get the US life business out from underneath the SIFI regulations and what that would do importantly for them from a capital perspective put them on the same footing as Lincoln and the rest of the industry.
So from that perspective they are just sort of getting back on a level playing field from a capital perspective and we don’t compete against companies on the basis of uneven capital regime.
So that [Indiscernible] doesn’t bother us.
And so when I think about that US versus Lincoln first of all we have much more diversification in our business than what I understand they’ll end up with.
And from back to competition we have such a strong distribution franchise.
We have such a strong breadth of product portfolio.
Just comparatively we sell twice as much life and annuity as MET does.
So I think they will be a good competitor.
They have a solid base in the United States.
But the strength of Lincoln to competition to capability from a competitive stance I think our capabilities are strong and are going to continue to grow.
Thank you for the pretty thoughtful answer.
One quick follow-up can you tell us how much remains in the reversions in the quarter today.
Hey Ron we are at above $165 million in total for the annuity in retirement business with the vast majority of that in the annuity business.
And that’s as of end of the fourth quarter.
Yeah the end of fourth quarter.
Okay thank you Our next question comes from Sean Dargan of Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Good morning I have a question about a potential adverse DOL scenario so you talked about the pivot to other products if you couldn’t sell as much VA in the qualified market but as I through that it might take a while to complete that pivot and even if a stock is trading below book value is it safe to say that you would make up for any potential loss EPS from VA sales by buying back your stock in the meantime.
Yes I made that comment in my remarks and I’ll just confirm it.
Yes absolutely we will do that.
We did that if you recall a couple of years ago when we were reprising our life insurance portfolio and we slowed sales down because we were not getting the appropriate returns when interest rates dropped and I think that created about 200 million of capital that would otherwise gone into new product sales instead it went to share buyback.
So if that were to happen it being DOL more disruptive than we expect absolutely we’ll take that capital and buy our shares back and we as we’ve said that would mitigate any earnings per share impact from lower VA sales.
Got it thanks and when I think about your RBC at almost 500%.
I was wondering if you have any - if you done any sensitivity analysis thinking if we’re going to credit cycle and I’m not saying we are but at any point 6 billion energy portfolio if the securities in there were downgraded in average of one notch do you have any idea what that would do to your RBC? Yes Sean this is Randy.
Yeah one notch downgrade across the entire $8.6 billion portfolio roughly 15 to 20 points of RBC.
Great thank you.
You are welcome.
Our next question comes from John Nadel of Piper Jaffray.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning everybody Randy maybe just a question.
I think this is just more about trying to understand the seasonality pattern for mortality I am thinking about the life insurance segment obviously 1Q of 2015 was weaker than you guys would typically expect just the seasonality would produce.
Can you walk us through what you expect in the more normalized environment seasonality look like? Sure at the highest level we expect the first business in individualized mortality we expect the first quarter to be elevated and the middle two quarters of the year to be somewhat in line with expectations and then in the fourth quarter you get back what you are over in the first quarter that’s at a high level what you would expect.
Of course you’re going to get some movement around there.
If you remember last year in the first quarter you’re going to test my memory but I believe we were 28 million of the number we talked about over our expectations and I think we talked about that maybe being a little high from a seasonality standpoint but not that out of way but what a typical seasonality would see in the first quarter.
So that’s what I would say.
Okay that’s helpful and then I guess my second question is just thinking about the 50% to 55% and I think as we moved into 2015 a year ago you talked about expecting buybacks to be roughly similar to the level in 2014 obviously 2015 benefited from the capital freed up from the reinsurance recapture.
Should we expect '16 level of buybacks to look similar to '15 excluding that $200 million of what I guess we would characterize as more one-time in nature.
So what I actually said coming into 2015 was that we would exceed what we did in 2014 and what we did in 2014 was 650 million.
So we actually exceeded that by $250 million.
This year we did 900 million and it did include 200 million associated with the reinsurance recapture.
I would also say that over the last two quarters of the year you saw us step in and do an incremental $50 million a quarter really leveraging the balance sheet.
So when I think about the year the 900 million and the 200 million and I think about stepping in and doing about additional 100 million for the full year over and above what we might have thought otherwise.
Got it.
Perfectly helpful.
Thank you very much.
You are welcome.
Our next question comes from Steven Schwartz of Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Thank you hey good morning everybody.
Just one more Dennis could on the DOL maybe two more on the DOL.
The colors that you made about share repurchase mitigating or someone mitigating the hit to variable annuities obviously nobody wants to think about this but I would imagine that there would be cost savings as well.
I think the way to think about that is that if sales were reduced you’d have to associate and reduce the variable expenses associated with those sales but I don’t think there is much cost savings on top of the share buybacks that would come out of that kind of a scenario.
All right thank you Dennis and then just switching the emphasis obviously VA has taken up most of people’s attention but could you talk to me a little bit about retirement plan.
I know a lot of that is teachers and I don’t think they get affected but I’m not sure how much.
By the DOL.
Yeah.
Roughly as it stands today there’s not a best interest contract exemption or participant plans of less than a hundred and that’s about 30% of our business.
And so it is roughly the same.
Okay so yeah - so that would have to go entirely fee-based and be under fiduciary rules without the fact that I would think that would be a negative but I don’t know.
All right let’s make sure that we are on the same page for some reason I am having a hard time hearing some of these questions.
So your question was how much of our current business in retirement is affected by the DOL.
Right and you said 30%.
I missed both [ph] it’s about 10%.
Okay that’s much lower okay.
All right okay thank you Dennis.
Okay.
I would like to come back to one question and I apologize not sure what the connection problem here is but I was asked about - I thought I was asked about the unrealized loss increase in our total energy portfolio which I answered went from 500 million at the end of the third quarter up a couple of hundred million.
But I am - I think actually the specific question was the unrealized loss in BIG portfolio below investment grade portfolio which is only a fractional amount so for clarification a fraction of the total amount.
Thank you operator we can go to the next question.
Our next question comes from Bob Glasspiegel of Janney.
Your line is open.
Good morning Lincoln.
I think Randy this maybe a little bit stale but a few quarters ago you said 10% yield on partnership alternatives is normal and 20 million a quarter is the run rate is that still sort of your base case assumption and was that - I think you said 7 million low in Q4 was that off a 20 million sort of run rate.
Yeah Bob thanks for the question and I think as Dennis mentioned 10% is still our expectations.
Over time the portfolio as we said here today has about a billion two.
So you can do the math pretax of $30 million a quarter.
As I mentioned this quarter as Dennis mentioned we had no alternative investment income and I size that about 18 million after DAC and tax in my script.
That’s very helpful thank you.
Thank you Bob.
Our next question comes from Tom Gallagher of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hey I want to ask what your thoughts are on anything you are hearing on the regulatory front for VA captives.
I think we’ve had another company out there prudential announce they are going to fold in their captive and I’ve heard varying stories about companies views of how this is likely to unfold but - and any comments can you give on that and do you - are you planning on recapturing your captive? I think you’ve mentioned in the past what the impact would be if you could update us on that as well in terms of whether it’s neutral or positive or negative for RBC.
Hi Tom I don’t know what you are hearing from other people but I’ve personally been negotiating at least discussing this with the executive committee of NAIC and so I think I have a pretty good handle on the direction that it’s going.
So let me make a couple of comments.
The high level objective of the review is to eliminate the statutory and GAAP reserve issue that has to do simply with market value versus book value accounting.
And the regulators understand that there should be a regulation in place where you can’t protect yourself against both potential challenges which you have to pick one or the other okay.
So what they are doing to is eliminate this negative arbitrage between - sometimes it’s called economics sometimes it’s called book value but the intent is to try to find a way to eliminate that having to choose one versus the other.
The proposal that has come out very definitely goes in that direction and so there is an intent again to improve the regulation both for the benefit of the regulators as well as the benefit of the companies.
So that’s the direction it’s moving [indiscernible] is about to start studying and sort of try to measure this problem from all of the different companies data so that’s substitute what is going on.
Specifically with respect to captives the need for the captives if this goes in the direction it seems to be going is lessened and the current thinking at the NAIC is that even though it is lessened whatever captives are in place will be grandfathered [ph].
So I generally see this as moving in a very positive direction for the entire VA industry and the regulators having said that there is a long way to go before we get to final regulations.
Tom let me answer the second part of your question.
No we have I think no need to recapture our captive at this point in time.
Over a long term as Dennis mentioned we are glad about the way the NAIC is moving and we will see what our thoughts are if and when those rules get change.
But in the interim no need or recent event [ph] - let me expand and explain a little bit why I think that is.
Every company has its own facts and circumstances and I am not going to speak to why or why not other companies would or would not recapture the captives.
But Lincoln’s facts and circumstance is around this issue are the following.
The way we have operated our captive over the years with a hedge program linked to the economics has left us in a very desirable position and that we have a significant amount of hard assets that exceed above the economic based liability and at the end of the year they exceeded them by 1.4 billion and significantly exceed these statutory reserve credit required.
At the end of the year they exceeded statutory reserve credit by $900 million.
So the way we’ve operated our captive in the past from a reserving standpoint from a hedging standpoint has left us in a very favorable position that - a position that I don’t believe all companies necessarily share.
The second thing I would point out is that we have capitalized our VA business also contributes to that very favorable position.
So we capitalize our variable annuity guarantee business is that we have a formula that has a great approach is that greater of CT98 [ph] and a floor percentage of account that is actually for a while now that floor is being controlling item inside of the capital formula but the CT98 is a very high level high threshold from a capital standpoint.
Factually if we were to take that CT98 down to CT95 which is where I hear some of my peer companies talk about the capitalization at you would actually see a billion less of required capital against their VA business.
So we are in a very good position recapturing our captive would have very little impact at all on the parent company where we do that and that is directly linked to how we have operated this company in the past both from a hedging standpoint and from a capitalization standpoint.
That’s really helpful Randy and then just one follow up and this is more a comment in my opinion as supposed to a question but I think - given the position you are in I think it would be a real positive if you all would consider in the interest of better transparency recapturing the captive particularly if it’s that strong.
I think right now I think there is just generally speaking basically using captives there is confusion in terms of how do you compare versus others and sort of what it might mean if it does move in the direction of where companies get pushed to move things to an up co but anyways so that’s - so I think just from a perception from a transparency standpoint I think it would be positive if you moved in that direction.
Anyway just wanted to make that comment.
We appreciate as always your insights Tom.
As I mentioned I just don’t see that happening.
The one benefit that you do get really from having a captive is that your spread from the volatility created by the difference between book value and market value accounting that $900 million of assets in excess of statutory requirement next quarter it maybe 1.1 billion a quarter after that it may be 700 million but I think that’s the real benefit.
And we will do everything we can to continue to bring sunshine to the fact that our captive is operated in a very robust way just exactly consistent with the way we operate our - the parent but thank you and always I appreciate your insights.
Okay thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Eric Berg of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thanks very much and good morning to Dennis and the rest of your team.
Dennis you indicated at the beginning of the call that your percentage of sales in variable annuities in qualified plans I think you said is roughly half of that of your peers.
My first question with respect to the qualified business that you do right can you remind us and I apologize if I missed this of the split within the qualified between guaranteed product and non-guaranteed product and as part of your response could you answer the question do you necessarily think that when you are selling annuities prospectively into qualified plans with no guarantee that those sales are necessarily in trouble or not necessarily.
Well so I understand the question.
We sell very little non-guaranteed business into qualified plans.
I don’t know what the number is but it’s very small.
Actually some of our corporate viewers even restrict that concept.
Is that… Yes you’ve answered and so is it you basic idea that because of the guarantee and the value associated with the guarantee that you may be able to - that the sales - is the point plainly and simply that because of the guarantee and the associated value of the guarantee that the sales you may be able to sell these products under the new regime? Absolutely and as I said just to add to that several distributors have already said that they’ll continue to sell VAs with living benefits on a commission basis with - if the rules don’t change at all and that’s because we’re trying to get the value of the guarantee to the customers.
And if I could ask one follow up regarding your investment portfolio I think I know we moved - the numbers have moved around a little bit in the course of this call.
But I think that you said that at the end of the September quarter the unrealized loss on your energy portfolio was $500 million give or take and as the below investment grade loss was much less than that.
If I have that right the basic concept right of what you’re saying that would suggest an out sized loss on your investment grade energy portfolio something that surprises and you’ve seen so many of your competitors the investment grade energy portfolio is basically trading at book.
My question why would you have a large unrealized loss on your investment grade energy portfolio? Yeah that’s going to be industry by industry and credit by credit analysis Eric and I don’t know what the other - the mix of the other competitors is.
Okay I’ll follow up with Chris and we can talk about it.
Thanks very much.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Chris Giovanni for any closing remarks.
Yes thank you and thank you all for joining us this morning.
As always we will take your questions on our investor relations line at 800-237-2920 or via email at <a href="mailto:investorrelations@lfg.com" rel="nofollow"><u>investorrelations@lfg.com</u></a>.
Thank you all for joining and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This does conclude the program and you may disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.