Good morning.
My name is Jodie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which reflect management’s current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of the operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Joining me on today's call are Jim Raabe Lindsay Corporation's Chief Financial Officer; and Lori Zarkowski our Chief Accounting Officer.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2012 we continue to see strong U.S.
irrigation equipment demand which drove revenues in the quarter to a record $172.1 million 12% higher than last year.
Irrigation sales gains and gross margin improvements across both of our business segments led to strong cash flows and higher operating margins in the quarter.
Net earnings were $18.8 million or $1.47 per diluted share compared with $15.3 million or $1.20 per diluted share from the prior year's third quarter.
Operating margins increased to 16.7% compared to 15.1% in the same quarter last year.
Total revenues for the first 9 months of fiscal 2012 were a record high of $423.4 million increasing 17% from the same period last year.
Net earnings for the first 9 months were $34.5 million or $2.70 per diluted share compared to $30.9 million or $2.44 per diluted share for the first 9 months of fiscal 2011.
Year-to-date 2012 results included a $7.2 million accrual for environmental remediation at our Lindsay Nebraska facility.
Excluding the environmental accrual net earnings for the first 9 months of fiscal 2012 were $3.07 per diluted share and operating margin improved to 14.2% compared to 13.2% in the same period last year.
Irrigation segment sales totaled $149.6 million in the quarter 18% higher than last year.
Irrigation operating margins improved to 20.9% compared to 20.2% last year.
In the U.S.
irrigation market revenues were $105.6 million for the third quarter increasing 38% over the same period last year.
Order volumes continued to be strong throughout the primary selling season and revenues grew in virtually all U.S.
regions with the lowest growth in the drought-stricken Texas market.
Commodity prices remain relatively high by historical standards partially driven by dry weather concerns across the Midwest.
The USDA projects U.S.
net farm income in 2012 to be the second-highest on record and 28% higher than the 10-year average continuing to represent positive economic conditions for U.S.
farmers.
For the third quarter of fiscal 2012 international irrigation revenues decreased 12% to $44 million.
As we've noted in the past revenues in the developing markets are often more project-based and therefore tend to be less linear.
Revenues in China reflected the largest regional variance due to delays in a provincial government tender.
However we anticipate China revenues to recover in the fourth quarter.
Irrigation quoting activity in our international markets remain strong and we expect that these markets will continue to be a source of growth in both the near and long-term.
For the first 9 months of fiscal 2012 irrigation segment revenues increased 32% to $367.3 million.
U.S.
irrigation revenues were $249.1 million increasing 39% while international irrigation revenues increased 20% to about $118.2 million even with the delays in China revenue.
Infrastructures segment revenues were $22.5 million decreasing $4 million or 15% from the third quarter of last year due primarily to lower road safety and rail product sales.
On the lower revenue base infrastructure operating margins improved to 6.4% of revenues compared to 4.1% last year reflecting actions taken in recent quarters to reduce product costs and operating expenses.
QMB system sales were slightly lower than the same quarter last year and we have continued to experience delays in anticipated projects.
However it is as noted in a recent press report by the Golden Gate Bridge Highway and Transportation District which indicated plans to move forward with movable barrier on the Golden Gate Bridge in 2013 interest continues for our QMB system and for overall solution to traffic congestion and enhancing highway workers' safety.
We continue to be encouraged by the long-term opportunities in our infrastructure business.
Year-to-date infrastructure revenues were $56.1 million a decrease of 33% due primarily to the decreasing QMB system sales for large infrastructure projects.
Gross profit was $49 million or 28.5% of sales for the third quarter versus $41.5 million or 27% in the same quarter last year.
Total gross margins increased in both our irrigation and infrastructure segment.
Irrigation gross margin gains reflected favorable sales mix while infrastructure gross margins improved as a result of improved pricing and road safety and diversified products along with continued efforts to lower manufacturing costs.
Operating expenses in the third quarter increased by $1.9 million to $20.2 million.
The increase was primarily driven by inclusion of acquired businesses and personnel-related expenses.
Operating expenses as a percent of sales improved to 11.8% for the quarter compared to 12% for the same period last year.
Our order backlog was $44.5 million on May 31 2012 as compared to $43.3 million on May 31 2011 and $87.3 million on February 29 2012.
Irrigation backlog is higher than a year ago while infrastructure backlog is lower.
Irrigation backlog at this time of year is typically not indicative of future revenues as it is the end of the North American selling season and delivery lead times are generally less than one month.
Cash and cash equivalents rose $19.2 million over the same time last year while debt decreased $4.3 million over the same period and $4.9 million of acquisitions were completed.
Accounts receivable were $8.1 million higher due to higher sales and inventories increased $9.3 million.
Inventory turns continued to improve.
Our primary use of cash remains investing in organic growth opportunities while continuing to seek accretive acquisitions that add new businesses and/or product lines.
In summary we attained record revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and expanded operating margins.
Government spending on highway and other infrastructure projects continues to be impediment to growth in our infrastructure segment.
However we believe the underlying demand for road safety and improved infrastructure will rebound although the timing is uncertain and subject to government funding.
We believe the improvements we've made in the infrastructure business had better positioned us for profitable growth as funding improves.
In North America the very robust primary selling season for irrigation equipment has drawn to a close as most fields are now planted.
In the international markets irrigation equipment demand remains strong as farmers and governments seek solution for enhancing yields improving water use efficiency and reducing pollution.
While international irrigation revenues lagged the same period last year quota activity remains solid particularly for large irrigation projects in developing markets and we anticipate continued strong growth in the international markets.
I'd now like to open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Schon Williams from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if we could just dive into the weather impact a little bit.
Generally I think about drought conditions usually being a follow-on effect for irrigation such that if we're seeing drought conditions this year that may bode well for purchases next year.
But it seems like weather may actually be hurting you.
You mentioned Texas.
I'm just trying to get a sense of whether the drought conditions that we're seeing especially in the Midwest and much of the corn crop is being stressed here.
I'm just trying to get a sense of where do you see this kind of net-net coming out on the weather this year given the drought conditions? Well Schon it's obviously a little too soon to tell.
But we're watching the U.S.
drought monitor and you can see the drought conditions in the Southwest in the Midwest expanding and also in pockets that are a little surprising enough say Southern Illinois and Indiana where it may have a larger impact on crop.
Typically what we see is as you have described the drought condition in this year which could affect yields may drive commodity prices up which we've seen some of that in at least from a secular standpoint in recent weeks and then can drive additional demand in the following year particularly in areas where farmers are dry land farmers and not irrigating today.
If we see droughts continue and I think Texas is one of those markets where it's continued now for a number of years then you get to a little bit of a situation wherein we may see selling less equipment.
And we did see the lowest growth in that Texas market in the quarter relative to other markets because water becomes less available and therefore they just really can't buy equipment it's really not going to solve the problem.
Now once that changes then we would typically see those markets pick up again.
So in what we've -- I think I'd add to that what we've often seen is that in the first year of a drought we typically don't see that much follow-on increase but a multiple-year drought certainly drive higher demand.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you just talk about in general very good growth in the quarter can you give -- talk a little bit about what you see in terms of the replacement demand versus dry land conversion versus incremental demand? Yes.
I think that as we've talked about in the past we typically have seen in a normal year -- and I'm not sure what a normal year is now but in a typical normal year in the past we would see about 1/3 of our units that would ship out in a year going into dry land and 1/3 into conversion from gravity irrigation and 1/3 into replacement.
And on a year-to-date basis looking at the information we've collected on the units that we've sold out of the U.S.
primarily in North American market about 45% of the machines are going into dry land applications 26% into conversion and 29% into replacement.
And we've seen this historically that when commodity prices rise the first land to convert or to add irrigation to or pivots where the biggest return is will be that dry land conversion.
And after that we'll see more in terms of conversion of the gravity irrigation and replacement.
But dry land moves to the top when commodity prices are high.
Your next question comes from Brett Wong from Piper Jaffray.
I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the international scope and see within China if you are seeing any issues with financing tightening up.
No we really haven't seen anything specific.
Well let's take financing in general in the international markets.
We have not seen specific tightening of financing.
Financing remains pretty readily available for at least for irrigation applications in agriculture.
I can't speak for all agricultural equipment but we haven't seen a change take place.
Now when it comes to China what we've seen is that as in many developing markets many of our sales will be in fairly large blocks and large projects.
And in some cases directly to say the Chinese government.
So in that case we can see timing shift a little bit from one period to another or a month to -- from one month to another or quarter to another based on when tenders are led or decisions are made on specific purchase or tenders.
So we are seeing that in China today.
So there's nothing that really causes me great concern in the China market other than the fact that it is lumpy and that's always a little bit difficult from a forecasting and projection standpoint.
In terms of financing in China there's not really a specific problem because the financing is primarily -- or basically our transaction is with the Chinese government.
We do however see that they will occasionally delay payments and sometimes that will stretch out a little bit but we do get paid.
Okay.
And then on the infrastructure side other than the...
I'm sorry I didn't hear that part of it.
Sorry on the infrastructure side other than the Golden Gate project any other QMB project that you might be able to shed some light on? Well I'd say that we're still optimistic about projects in infrastructure particularly our QMB system.
We continue to track a pretty extensive project list.
We still have projects that would say may fall into the fourth quarter but they're very difficult to predict those.
So I wouldn't project that or make any indication if that would happen at this point.
I would say that I'm still optimistic about QMB projects in general and the opportunities that it represents globally.
In addition I think the Golden Gate Bridge is one that's been talked about for a number of years in terms of putting QMB on the bridge.
And I was encouraged by a press release that appeared on the Golden Gate Bridge Transportation -- or Highway and Transportation District Authority website indicating a progress on a specific project which they basically have put -- or using some leased QMB on the road entering the Golden Gate while they're doing some construction.
And they've indicated more specifically their plans to complete this project with movable barrier on the Golden Gate Bridge by I think fall of '13.
Your next question comes the line of Ryan Connors from Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> I want to talk a little bit about the margin profile of the business specifically in irrigation and specifically kind of talk about scenario analysis around 2013.
Obviously a lot of debate in the space broadly is about the cyclical direction.
And so I just wonder if you've could -- you've done a lot of things over the last couple of years to improve the cost structure ERP et cetera.
So in a scenario where you had a modest contraction in unit volume say on the order of something like 5% how resilient would margins be in the irrigation business in that kind of scenario relative to the run rate you're at today? Or do you think there would be a notable decremental in that kind of scenario? I think as indicated back in the 2008 2009 time period the margins would be pretty resilient.
Now keep in mind that was a pretty steep drop back with the beginning of the recession.
But I'd say that with that kind of level of declines that you are describing or even a little bit more I would expect margins to be pretty resilient.
We have made improvements in terms of implementation of leaner factory and implementation of our ERP system.
I would say that margins are as much a factor of what happens with competitive pricing in steel and our ability to pass-through the steel at the corporate rates than it is anything else at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay that's good.
And then you actually touched on my second part of my question there which was what about raw materials and other input costs relative to your pricing power today? I mean one would assume some of the input costs have come down yet your pricing environment appears to probably be pretty good at this time.
So would you look at price cost as a tailwind over the balance of this year? I think the -- as you would indicate some of the inputs have come down.
The orders moved back some but I would comment that the move that you've seen in steel has been primarily in the spot market in steel.
Some of that would not be directly impacting us in the sense that we pre-bought some steel.
So we were already seeing some pretty favorable prices.
Right now we're not buying much steel but we believe that there'll be more buy opportunities in terms of buying steel in the future to solidify our input cost position.
But overall I would say it's favorable in the sense of steel prices pulling back some.
From a competitive price standpoint I think things have been working pretty well and overall in the market we haven't really seen much that I'd consider to be disruptive in any way.
So I would say that we've been able to pass through increases as necessary and prices are holding quite well.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one final one a little bit more a big picture.
The Senate passed their version of a Farm Bill last week.
Is there -- have you had a chance to review that or have any of your people have a chance to review that? And if so is their view on that bill and whether or not there are any things in there that are either positive or negative for your business if in fact that bill were to become law? Well most of the Senate the proposed Senate Farm Bill as it's out today is a pretty significant change from what we've seen in the past in the Farm Bill.
The one area in particular that I'd be interested in watching to see what happened with the Environmental Quality Incentive Program the EQIP money because that money has been used and has been supportive of the conversion from gravity irrigation to pivot irrigation in the past.
So it's difficult to determine what level of involvement that has whether it's a 5% factor or 10% factor because it's very difficult to see in terms of the -- how much of the conversion is actually funded by EQIP but we know it is important.
What we're seeing in the Senate bill is it has continued with EQIP but at a pretty good level.
So we're seeing that as being a very positive thing in the proposed Farm Bill.
Now remains to be seen what happens as it goes through the House and what the actual Farm Bill ends up but EQIP is one that I'd like to see protected.
Your next question comes from Carter Shoop from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First question on the infrastructure business.
It is definitely a little bit more than what I was expecting and I was hoping that you could give us a little bit of color on what drove the sequential increase the February to May quarter increase? How much of that was kind of seasonality from the Crafts [ph] business? How much that was from QMB? I believe that you guys did recognize some leasing sales to QMB on the road that goes up to the Golden Gate Bridge in the May quarter but I want to clarify that.
And I thought that would be a pretty small number though only well less than $500 000 in the quarter.
So help me understand why you guys had such a big increase there.
James will you take that? Yes.
It is -- the primary driver of that is seasonality.
But it is -- normally our third quarter and fourth quarter when we do see a little bit of an increase and that is primarily in the road safety and some of the other contract manufacturing as well.
But those were the normal changes and that's pretty typical for this time of year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'm just looking at the model here in the past 1 2 3 4 4 years and the biggest sequential increase you saw in the May quarter in that business was about 14%.
This quarter you're doing 49% so about 4x bigger than the biggest sequential increase in the past 4 years.
Anything else going on that you guys know? No I think what you could be seeing some of that is what's happened with the QMB business in the past.
So obviously we didn't have any QMB business in the second quarter.
And depending on how much business there is there and in prior quarters that obviously has a pretty big impact on the sequential numbers.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on the irrigation business it sounds like we'll shift to a more heavily weighted international versus domestic mix in the fiscal 4Q timeframe.
Should we expect a material decline in irrigation margin as a result of that or should we think of the pricing environment and the margin profile being somewhat similar between the 2 regions? Well I think there's a couple of different factors there Carter.
One is that I would not conclude that there will be significant shift in mix between international and domestic in the fourth quarter at this point because we're not making any projection or guidance on that.
My comment was that we still expect that the -- we will see the China piece at least kind of recovering a little later than the third quarter being moved to the fourth quarter.
The second part of that is that margins are slightly lower traditionally in the international markets where our manufacturing structure and cost base is higher than producing in the U.S.
because of -- if we have less vertical integration in those markets.
So we could see some change in the margins or let's say there could be some margin mix because of the international impact in that third quarter.
But I wouldn't conclude a sales mix change at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Last question if I may.
When you look at the backlog it came down quite a bit quarter-over-quarter February to May.
And I know this can be very volatile and there's definitely some seasonality there.
But regardless it came down a little bit more than what I was expecting.
Is there anything in there that we can talk about whether it was more on irrigation side or more on the infrastructure side? Any kind of color on that decline sequentially would helpful.
There's nothing specific in terms of decline.
I think that the point that I would make on this is that if you look at the backlog comparable to the previous year it was slightly up from the previous year at the same time.
And as I said irrigation backlog is higher and Infrastructure backlog is a little bit lower.
And I also would indicate that -- or say that it's really not indicative of future revenues.
But if you keep in mind that the backlogs were about the same and then we've had record revenues in fiscal 2012 I wouldn't read too much into that backlog number based on the level of magnitude that it is and also taking into consideration that our shipments from that backlog typically are less than a month.
Your next question comes from Tim Mulrooney from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Brian Drab.
So I wanted to ask a follow-up to the question that was just asked about the infrastructure segment first because I wasn't clear on Jim's answer at least not exactly clear.
I think that you said that there were no QMB sales in the second quarter and that QMB dynamic would've affected that sequential growth from the second quarter to third quarter.
I guess just to be clear are you implying that there was more significant step-up in QMB sales from second quarter to third quarter this year than there was in the previous year? So let me just clarify a little bit.
There were no large QMB projects in the quarter.
We will typically have some level of QMB activity small maybe small projects always some leasing activity so there's always some QMB volume but the sequential view is going to be impacted by whether any of those prior quarters have any large projects in them.
So if you go back and you look at some of these prior quarters where there isn't a lot of growth from Q2 to Q3 typically what you would see is there's a large project in maybe a Q2 quarter and no large QMB project in the Q3 quarter.
So it mutes the sequential view.
But there is always some QMB activity just no large projects in those quarters.
Research Division</strong> So the real driver this year from second quarter to third quarter was seasonality in the contracting in highway infrastructure business? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the Golden Gate Bridge project which is talked about quite often on these calls can you remind us if you've given any indication as to how important that project would be in terms of size? No.
I wouldn't -- I can't do that but I would point you to trying -- or to take a look at that press release that out under the Golden Gate Bridge Highway or Transportation and -- or Highway and Transportation District Agency.
And I believe they refer to the project as if my recollection is correct about $26 million as a project we would have a portion of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Any feeling for how large a portion? Yes yes I do but I'm not going to...
Research Division</strong> I know.
Can you give me a feeling for it? No I'm afraid I can't.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
Well I can get close I'm sure on my own.
So -- and then Rick any indication here just directionally where you think the growth rates go for irrigation in the back half of calendar '12 up or down? I don't really -- one I wouldn't want to give an indication at this point but I'd have to say that there's a lot of things kind of playing out right now as we look at what's happening with commodity prices and the drought.
Obviously I think the drought threat can have some implications in terms of driving some demand.
So it's really difficult to say right now.
Most are very optimistic about the international market still and I don't read much into the slightly lower quarter this quarter.
I think that everything I see that's driving towards the opportunity for higher yields and overall food security on a global basis is all very positive.
So I wouldn't make a projection but let's just say I don't have anything that would really make me pessimistic at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could lastly on Russia are you seeing any policy changes and implications on your business there lately? Well we've seen certainly more activity and certainly indications of more -- I mean as I've asked my people to research things like government subsidies they've come back with a couple of programs that have been established in Russia.
I haven't seen the official documents but I'm sure they're in Russian and it wouldn't help me anyway.
But there's a couple that are referring to improvements in soil fertility from 2012 to 2014 and another one that's from 2013 to '20.
And these are subsidies that are being put in place by various states or regions in Russia that will be half funded by the regions and half funded by the central government the federal government in Russia.
And they appear to be fairly sizable as much as 50% let's say of the irrigation systems covering various amounts of hectares of land in the various states.
Now it does appear to be quite varied by state so -- but we are seeing most of the primary arboricultural state having these subsidies.
So I believe that we're going to really start seeing the impact of it.
I don't think it's going to be Russia in terms of everybody trying to buy at one time.
But as I said in the past I think we need these subsidies to get some markets started because in many cases that Russian market has been waiting for it since the government has announced that they're putting subsidies.
And all the evidence I've got at this point says that these are in place.
So we should start seeing more of that turn on.
Your next question comes from Andrew O'Connor [ph] from Harris Investments.
So I wanted to ask what capital expenditures do you expect for fiscal 2012? And in what areas will these expenditures be made? Rick I think in the last call you suggested $9 million to $11 million for fiscal '12? Yes and we're still in that range.
That really hasn't changed.
That's the area we would still project.
And is it too early for a guesstimate for next year of fiscal '13? It's too early to put anything on the table for that.
However I would say that I expect it to increase.
We see some good organic growth opportunities in terms of things like expanding our let's say vertical integration in a couple of our factories.
We see some opportunities to do some things that could lower the cost base now that the volume is picking up.
We have some opportunities to expand and some need to expand our operations in China.
So there's some definite needs on the table but would require somewhat more capital.
But I don't -- we're not talking about $30 million as a capital.
We're talking about maybe moving from 12 to 20 but it is definitely too early for me to project that at this point.
Got you.
And then lastly can you characterize your strategy in managing the balance sheet? Lindsay has a burgeoning amount of cash on the balance sheet and I was just wondering if you could review that? Well I think again I would point to primary use of cash is going to be supporting organic growth opportunities in which we see some significant opportunities still to continue to invest in this business for the long-term global growth that exist.
In addition to that we have an ongoing acquisition process that has many possibilities in terms of different candidates and types of businesses that can be added.
We also have dividend and other things.
But in terms of managing that cash balance I'd say I'd look at it from a perspective that we manage the business as if we don't have this big cash reserve in the sense of trying to be efficient and things like working capital use.
However we don't let that get in the way of growth opportunities that we see in front of us.
But we'll continue to try and operate LEAN and at the same time we do seek these opportunities for using this cash which we believe we have in front of us.
Your next question comes from Joe Mondillo from Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just got 2 follow-up questions 2 questions that have been asked already.
The first one is related to the challenging Texas conditions that you spoke of earlier.
Just wondering if you could give a little more color in terms of how close are we to seeing some of those Texas-like conditions in elsewhere the heart of the corn belt or elsewhere where you guys compete? Well as far as Texas is concerned it is a pretty severe drought situation and farmers are definitely impacted in terms of their ability to have the water to grow crops.
I think it is pushing in a new level of efficiency in the Texas market in terms of more innovative solutions and applications of technologies to grow crops which is on the one hand difficult; on the other hand it's positive to see in more drought-stricken drought-related areas like Texas and many other parts of the world had to do that at certain time.
Now the second part the question really is how close are we in other parts of the United States in terms of seeing those similar conditions and I think we're a long ways off.
I wouldn't say that it is impossible to perceive that but I think where we're sitting right now is not anywhere close to that today.
We are seeing dry weather conditions that can affect current crop and yield but it's not anywhere to the point of being able to -- or being at a level that shuts off the water available for irrigating today.
It's a very small regional basis sorry.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the second question just in terms of the orders your orders for the quarter were down 2% year-over-year.
Just wondering is that mostly in infrastructure? Why that is? Maybe is that also due to the strong orders that you saw in the second quarter just being pulled forward? I don't know the specific in terms of how much of it was Infrastructure versus how much of it was Irrigation.
But I would say in the level of magnitude that we saw in the third quarter in terms of irrigation activity I would consider that 2% to not be very significant or material and also keeping in mind that our irrigation markets were down slightly.
And again some of this has to do with the delay in some of the China revenues that we still anticipate to happen.
Your next question comes from David Rose from Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I have a remaining question.
First of all can you quantify the impact in China for us? I can't.
I would -- we really don't break out any of the markets for competitive reasons very specifically.
I would say that it's -- certainly we'd be in the top say 3 or 4 of our international markets.
Research Division</strong> I meant in terms of the order being pushed out can you tell us maybe what percent of sales it impacted? No I really can't.
I would just say that it is significant to our revenue in China but it is not -- I really can't break out the total amount.
Research Division</strong> Okay no I understand.
And then again on the international side I understood there was some changes within Argentina from the dealers.
Was that disruptive for you at all in the quarter? And maybe you can talk a little more about what's going on in the other regions? Well in terms of Argentina we've appointed a new dealer I believe it's 2 new dealers I wouldn't call that disruptive I would call it progress for us in Argentina because we were really in a difficult spot and we remained in a difficult position in that specific market due to distribution changes that took place a long time ago.
So that's been a tough market for us.
But the rest of the markets in that region are really very good for us.
Argentina has just been one that's been a bit of a problem.
I also think that there's some new restrictions that are very difficult from a standpoint of importing goods into Argentina that are very difficult for anyone to compete.
So it's a pretty tough market? Research Division</strong> And were you impacted negatively at all in the Middle East this period? Negatively in the Middle East? No.
Research Division</strong> No okay.
So you're still seeing growth in Middle East? Well we still see some very good growth opportunities.
I think that we have seen revenue growth in the past in markets like Egypt which I think Egypt is disruptive at this point and I don't anticipate anything in the very near future but I still believe there's good growth opportunities in Egypt and throughout the Middle East.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I appreciate the color on the international side.
And then on the mix side domestically you had indicated some of the margin mix attributable to international versus domestic.
Within domestic I got the impression as we talked to dealers that there's a bit more on the parts side in terms of mix shift.
Is that fair? And how does that affect your margins going forward? We're seeing a significant part mix shift that would really drive any major change in domestic margins.
I believe that earlier in the year in the spring we did see strong part sales which wasn't a huge surprise as the machines were starting up.
But I wouldn't say that we've seen a significant mix shift in a few parts revenue in any way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly going back to the balance sheet and the cash you have on hand.
Last very closing comments you have at the last quarter you highlighted the acquisitions and the sense I got were fairly close.
That is very high in your list.
You seem to backed away from that a bit on this call in terms of how close they are in terms of priority of cash.
Is it because of the challenges on the price which sellers are expecting in the market? Did you lose out on anything? Maybe you can provide us a little bit more color on the acquisition opportunities.
Yes.
I think you're reading probably a little more into it than certainly I intended.
It's -- I said I may have been a little more optimistic with some potential acquisition candidates that were on the table or that I was visiting in the near-term let's say on the last call.
Not that we've lost anything because we really haven't.
It's more -- there's a varying levels of activity in terms of our acquisition process and it will at times be pretty intense with a lot of visits and discussions and times when it's a little quieter.
It's probably a little quieter right now than it was at the end of the previous quarter which could be part of the reasons for that.
But it doesn't change my optimism or view in terms of acquisition opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So with all those cash on the balance sheet clearly that's a priority.
You indicated you have to run the business as if you don't have the cash but shareholders will get the cash.
Is there anything that could preclude you from an extraordinary dividend increasing the dividend? And can you provide us some thoughts on that? No I think all options are on the table.
And I'd say that we certainly don't have to run the business as if we don't have the cash.
It's more of an operating method so that we don't get sloppy with this.
We really try to run LEAN and manage the business in the most efficient way possible which I'm sure shareholders want us to.
At the same time we won't restrict that from the standpoint that if we need additional inventory in order to meet demand that we see in front of us we'll do that or any other investments that's required.
But all options are on the table and I wouldn't rule out any and we will continue to evaluate all options.
Finding acquisitions is not a priority from the standpoint of we must do it.
What we believe we have are opportunities to add in additional pieces that create some significant shareholder value that will create value that shareholders really couldn't get by buying out say a business or piece of business on their own.
That continues to be part of the mission.
It certainly wouldn't put it in category of a rush to do a deal because there's too many deals that unfortunately don't create value.
So that's not the goal.
The goal is to find the deals that really create some significant shareholder value.
Your next question comes from Jeff Beach from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
I have a couple.
One you cited -- discussed the Golden Gate Bridge project.
Is there any other large projects that have come up on the horizon that you're monitoring that you could cite? Well there's really not.
There are other projects that we are certainly tracking many on our list and many that we have meetings on.
I'm citing the Golden Gate Bridge one because it is more public.
They've had public studies that have been done environmental impacts on the Golden Gate Bridge and now they've gone as far as to put out this announcement in terms of the progress of the project itself which is the only reason I feel confident in doing that.
I'm reluctant always to discuss projects or potential projects that have not been disclosed publicly because we've had incidences of talking about a project and then have people call that agency whether it was a bridge authority or whatever it was and be inquiring about the status of the project and things and it really drives them crazy.
So from a customer respect standpoint I won't get into specifics on pending projects unless we either released to do that or it's already public.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Second on your LEAN and then you mentioned spending might go up next year related to somewhat to productivity.
Do you expect going forward over the next year to realize as much productivity and cost savings as you've been realizing over the last year or 2 which seems to be visible in your results.
I would expect our organization to keep driving those improvements that are visible in the results.
The challenge in what we've seen in the last year is the productivity improvement become a little bit more visible as the volume is ramping up and the fact that we've been able to do it with fewer people and be able to manage that using LEAN and to LEAN out basically most of the process in the operations.
So that's where we've seen improvement.
We will continue to see it.
We have significant opportunities in our international operations to implement LEAN and see those improvements as well.
I am reluctant to project anything in terms of what that will look like going forward in terms of the level of magnitude.
We prefer to do it and show it in the results.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Lastly have you talked about the environmental impact of the expenses looking out past 2012? We really haven't.
I assume you're referring to the environmental reserve that was established the accrual we made? I will let Jim comment on that in terms of the accrual and what that represents.
Yes we haven't commented on it other than to say we have put the accrual on the books that we think is appropriate based on what we know today and what we expect to we think incur looking out.
It is obviously a situation where there's a lot of different factors and that can change over time and so there's always a possibility those numbers can change.
But for now we have accrued what we think is necessary in order to remediate a good part of it in some ongoing costs.
Your next question comes from the line of Schon Williams from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up.
I know the EPA normally does a field test somewhere in the kind of May June time frame.
Has that occurred yet? I'm not sure specifically what you're referring to on this Schon.
But we have had ongoing actions with the EPA regarding a 5-year plan a multi-year plan a multiple-year plan and they've been directly involved in defining things like what testing we should be doing in the future.
It also incorporated doing some field testing or testing at various wells to determine the size of plume location and things like that.
So I think that testing has been ongoing throughout the process.
Research Division</strong> So you're not aware of whether they've been physically on site in the last few months? I'm not aware if they've been physically on site in the last couple months no.
I would say that they -- there hasn't been anything outside of their normal process and there is an ongoing process and monitoring and updating before them as Rick called out.
They've been very involved.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to switch gears a little bit you did note some better pricing you're seeing in the infrastructure side of the business versus last year.
I was a little surprised to see that kind of given the weak demand environment.
Can you talk a little more about what product line that was? And then what's driving that pricing? I would describe that as a combination of some strategic pricing based on specific product groups where we felt that we had some opportunities in terms of where competition may have been priced.
We -- I would also describe it as in our operation in Italy which was the Snoline product line we felt that we have product groups that was underpriced to the market and we needed to step those up so that was put in place.
And in addition we've established appropriate pricing discipline with the right levels of sign offs on deviations from pricing trends that are put in place in the infrastructure piece of business.
And those controls as well as the pricing changes that have been implemented have made a difference.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the conference back over to Mr.
Rick Parod for closing comments.
For our business overall the global long-term drivers of water conservation population growth increasing importance of biofuels and the need for safer more efficient transportation solutions remain positive.
In addition to the overall business enhancements that have taken place we continue to have an ongoing structured acquisition process that will generate additional growth opportunities throughout the world in water and infrastructure.
Lindsay is committed to achieving earnings growth through global market expansion improvements in margins and strategic acquisitions.
We'd like to thank you for your questions and participation in this call.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties and which reflect management’s current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expect -- expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protections of the Safe Harbor or forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 were $89.2 million increasing 4% over the same quarter last year.
Net earnings were $4.3 million or $0.34 per diluted share compared with $6.7 million or $0.53 per diluted share in the prior year’s first quarter.
In the U.S.
irrigation market revenues were $36.6 million for the first quarter increasing 14% over the same quarter last year.
Agricultural commodity prices remain strong with corn increasing 60% soybeans up 25% and wheat increasing over 35% from the same time last year.
The most recent USDA projections for 2010 net farm income show a 31% increase over 2009 and project it to be the third highest on record.
That coupled with the rising commodity prices has created positive economic conditions for U.S.
farmers enhancing their investment perspective.
Irrigation equipment order flow is strong as we head into the peak selling season.
International irrigation revenues were $23.4 million for the first quarter increasing 11% from the same period last year.
Revenues increased significantly in exports to the Latin American and Australia and New Zealand markets and we realized notable revenue increases in our irrigation business units in China and Brazil.
Long-term market drivers of improving diets and a growing worldwide population combined with water use efficiencies available from mechanized irrigation systems continue to be positive drivers for global irrigation equipment demand.
Infrastructure business segment revenues were $29.2 million decreasing 11% from the same quarter last year.
The first quarter of the prior year included approximately $16 million of the $20 million Mexico City barrier project which was completed in the second quarter of that year.
During the first fiscal quarter of 2011 we completed and shipped approximately $8 million of a major QuickChange Moveable Barrier project on the east coast of U.S.
worth approximately $15 million in total and we expect to ship the remainder of that project in the second fiscal quarter of 2011.
The lower revenues in the quarter on a year-to-year comparative basis also adversely impacted operating margin for the infrastructure segment as the QMB product line earns the highest margin in that business segment.
We continue to see strong interest in our moveable barrier products and maintain a healthy ongoing potential project lift.
However the overall outlook for highway infrastructure spending remains uncertain with a multiyear U.S.
highway bill not expected until sometime in 2011 and given global governmental budget constraints.
Gross profit was $24.2 million for the first quarter versus $25.8 million in the same quarter last year.
Gross margins were 27.2% compared to 30% for the first quarter of last year.
Infrastructure gross margins were lower in the quarter resulting from the lower QuickChange Moveable Barrier project revenues.
Irrigation revenue -- irrigation gross margins were approximately the same as the first quarter of the previous year.
Operating expenses for the first quarter were $17.6 million versus $14.6 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
The quarter included $700 000 of incremental expense for environmental monitoring and remediation which is part of an ongoing EPA work plan at our Lindsay Nebraska facility.
In addition the quarter included higher product development costs higher personnel related costs sales commissions for the QMB project and incremental expenses from Digitec the small technology acquisition made at the end of fiscal 2010.
Many of the increased operating expenses in the quarter reflect investments related to growth initiatives for both business segments.
Our order backlog was $59.7 million on November 30 2010 as compared to $36.1 million November 30 2009.
While the first fiscal quarter is typically not indicative of the irrigation equipment demand for the fourth coming selling season the November 2010 or 2011 -- November 2010 backlog represents a record first quarter backlog in total and for irrigation.
The infrastructure backlog is also higher versus the same time last year.
Cash and cash equivalents of $80.5 million were $11.2 million lower compared with last year while debt decreased $12.3 million.
Accounts receivable were $8.4 million higher year-over-year due to higher sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and due to lower prepayments.
Inventories increased 8.8% over the comparable quarter last year while inventory turns have improved.
Inventories were increased in view of the improved economic conditions for farmers and higher incoming order rate as well as for the ongoing QuickChange Moveable Barrier project.
In summary solid irrigation performance and strong results from our infrastructure segment were realized in the quarter.
In the irrigation segment improved farmer sentiment has resulted from increased commodity prices and projected higher farm income.
We’re optimistic that the improved farmer sentiment along with the currently strong order flow will result in improved year-over-year irrigation equipment revenues.
In the infrastructure segment we continue to see strong interest in our QuickChange Moveable Barrier systems and road safety products.
Also we continue to have a disciplined process to find accretive acquisitions that add new businesses and/or product lines to invest in our -- and to invest in organic growth opportunities.
We are confident that increasing agricultural yield to boost food supply improving water use efficiency expanding biofuel production and improving transportation infrastructure will remain global priorities and will continue to be strong drivers for our markets long-term.
I would now like to open it up for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from the line of Ned Borland with Hudson Securities.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Ned.
Just sticking with irrigation here nice increase to the backlog in total I’m just wondering what sort of lead times are you guys looking at in irrigation versus prior periods? Our lead times are relatively unchanged.
We’re still sitting at a pretty good situation from a capacity standpoint with probably operating at around the 65% of capacity level.
So our lead times generally will be in the few weeks for delivery.
Okay.
So that they’re not really stretching out at this time? No.
Not at this point.
Okay.
On the growth initiative spending I mean how many of those items that you called out there how many of those sort of flow into 2Q and 3Q? Well I think there’s a couple different factors in this firstly there are some one-time type expenses or non-recurring type expenses in the quarter which I can let Dave comment on in a minute.
But I’d comment more in terms of the growth initiatives and the things that we’re investing in.
And the types of things that we’re expensing growth initiatives were in things like development of new products which has been an ongoing initiative for the last couple of quarters in terms of stepping up that development.
We have -- during the recession as many companies did pulled back on some of those activities but we see the opportunity and the need for some of the markets we’re serving to step up our pace on product development.
Another one is in market coverage for developing markets.
As we’re seeing markets strengthen we found that there are opportunities and needs to have a couple of people in those markets to take advantage of those opportunities.
And the third one would be promotional materials for developing markets and we’ve had a process of developing whether it was brochures or video or advertising type materials but those are more for the developing markets.
These are relatively ongoing in the sense of we could see a few quarters of these expenses as we have with product development but they’re not long-term ongoing.
Theses are things where we needed to step-up expense to address current market needs.
Dave if you wanted to comment on some of the non-recurring type expense.
Sure.
Good morning Ned.
We had approximately $1.5 million of the $3 million increase that was really on timing $700 of that was the environmental expense which is difficult to forecast and then we had another $800 000 in some non-recurring selling and R&amp;D initiatives.
We also had $400 000 of commissions on the QMB job in the period and that compares with no commissions in the prior year period on QMB jobs.
The remaining increases would include the OpEx for Digitec the business that we acquired that Rick mentioned earlier and some additional salaries and performance based compensation.
We did see some spending that we will address in the period and we had held back during the downturn and as Rick commented we’re pushing ahead with some of those initiatives.
Okay.
That’s really helpful.
And just last question on international irrigation markets.
I think Rick in previous calls you commented pricing had been somewhat of an issue.
Just wondering what you’re seeing there? The international markets haven’t really changed much.
I think that we will continue to see pricing as an issue in some cases because some of those markets are developing type markets where they are more project-oriented.
And what we’ll see I think in the next year with those markets is they’ll respond as well to the high commodity prices that we’ve seen in the U.S.
market.
However there also will be some capital availability or capital cost limitations that could affect those markets like Russia Ukraine China North and Central Africa.
And we will see competitive pressures in those markets because they will be probably larger projects more project-oriented.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Brian Drab with William Blair.
Good morning Rick and Dave.
Good morning Brian.
First question on the backlog your backlog as you talked about it is up nicely sequentially.
Is that much more than the typical seasonal uptick that you’d see during the period and do you think indicative of the strong start to the selling season in irrigation? Certainly more than what we would typically see in a first quarter.
As I said it was a record first quarter backlog.
It’s much more than what we would normally see.
It’s also higher than the 2008 first quarter backlog that we saw.
So I think it is indicative of a strong season which makes sense given commodity prices plus the economic conditions of farmers coming off of this past crop year.
So I think those factors are all bode well in terms of ongoing equipment demand.
Now what was the -- the second part to your question? I don’t know that I’ve asked yet.
I’ll give you a second part here though.
Yeah.
Actually one follow-up to your comment there you mentioned that the backlog first quarter this year is better than it was in 2008 and is the difference -- is one of the differences here that we’ve seen a strong run-up of in ag commodities earlier than we did in -- going into that 2008 period? Yeah.
I think it’s -- it is definitely due to the strong run-up and I think it’s coming off of a strong financial situation for the farmers in the past.
I think the second part that I was trying to think of related to your question was another factor that does play into this towards the end of the calendar year is the I think it was -- was it Section 179 tax benefit or depreciation incremental depreciation tax deferral that’s available to farmers on equipment.
Now it’s hard to determine how much of incremental revenue in the last month or so of the quarter could have been tied to that but I do think it had some impact.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then also related to the backlog is there -- specific to QMB is there more than just the $7 million or so in this announced project in the backlog or is it just $7 million of QMB in that backlog number? Well there’s always more in the backlog and I’m not going to breakout the specific amount but I would say that there are always some road safety products in the backlog as well that are kind of ongoing more transactional part of the business.
Okay.
But this QMB specifically can you comment on whether it’s more or less than the balance of this announced $15 million project? Well I’d answer it in terms of saying there isn’t really any other significant QMB project to talk about that was received in the quarter.
So it would be fair to say that that is the primary QMB piece in backlog.
Got it.
Okay.
And then turning to gross margin for a second the sequential downtick in the gross margin was actually a little surprising to me maybe it shouldn’t be but tell me what I’m missing? But the QMB revenue from fourth quarter 2010 to first quarter 2011 was about the same right.
It was about $9 million in the fourth quarter and about $8 million the first quarter? But your gross margin stepped down from about $29.5 to $27.2 and is there any -- it just make me to believe that maybe there’s something else going on in terms of margins in the infrastructure business or is that off? I can’t comment on the fourth to first margin specifically in terms of that analysis.
I would say I did very specifically look at first to first… Right.
… first quarter to first quarter and I can say that the primary issue is the difference in the QMB revenue and that was from the Mexico City project to the recent project that is currently in process.
There are some additional factors that always come into play in the infrastructure segment which I would characterize as more the mix issues in terms of the -- how much of that revenue would be tied to the contract manufacturing or tubing versus some of the road safety products.
And as you know we’re in the process of really addressing improving the profitability and operating margin of our infrastructure business.
And that includes rationalization of products and potentially restructuring the business to improve that overall position.
Okay.
Thanks.
And if I could just one -- one last question.
You mentioned that you don’t expect a major highway bill to pass until sometime in 2011.
That is I think seems to me the optimistic scenario at this point.
Is there and it seems like there is a group of people that believe that it might not come maybe even until after the next presidential election.
But are you getting some increased visibility to that highway bill passing in 2011? I think I’d say Brian that my visibility on it is about as you just described.
Okay.
We’ve heard some speculation and I think some that feel very strongly that it will be in 2011 and I also believe that there’s some that will say that that they have told us it won’t happen until after the election.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Ryan Connors with Janney Montgomery.
Good morning.
I wanted to have a quick follow-up here on the issue of pricing and really in both segments but first off in irrigation.
Rick can you talk just qualitatively about the pricing environment domestically and then as you do that kind of layer in any thoughts you have on raw material pricing and how that’s impacting that obviously steel prices have come up very recently and I don’t imagine that had an impact in the quarter but going forward what the outlook is there? Yeah.
First Ryan I think in terms of pricing I would say that nothing has really changed in the U.S.
or even global pricing environment from what we’ve seen in previous quarters recently.
It is competitive however in general we haven’t seen any real significant price changing or increased competitive intensity that’s driving pricing down.
I will say that if we typically see in the lower quarters which would be first quarter and fourth quarter we will have a slightly more intense competitive environment because its lower quarters and we’ll have more projects in both the U.S.
and the international markets.
Regarding steel as you mentioned steel pricing has changed and is picking up.
Steel in fact now is probably about 20% roughly 20% higher than it was the same time last year and as you know steel’s about a third of our cost of goods sold.
In times of rising steel prices such as we see right now our practice is to cover 70% or more of our next three months’ steel needs with either inventory on hand or purchase commitment to get the best possible price at a minimum to at least align our pricing with material costs.
And we’ve continued to do that and even though steel prices have moved up we’ve been able to pass that through in terms of pricing.
Okay.
And then following up on the discussion of infrastructure if you can kind of talk ex-QMB just sort of the base non-QMB infrastructure highway business given your discussion on the prior questioner there about whether the highway bill even happens in ‘11? What is kind of the pricing situation among the non-QMB product lines in that business? I think the pricing in terms of the non-QMB is excuse me is competitive.
However I don’t really see potential issues in that.
What we have seen is in some of the product groups such as our contract manufacturing and our tubing business profitability has improved and margins have improved in those businesses in terms of some of the work that we’ve done in reducing cost and in just plain changing our pricing strategy.
As you know our overall infrastructure business is a little complex in the sense that it consists of Barrier Systems which produces and sells the QuickChange Moveable Barrier in road safety equipment.
And also the railroad products the diversified manufacturing and the tubing business and there have been quarters when those other businesses outside of the QuickChange Moveable Barrier and road safety products were dragging down the margins of the rest of the infrastructure business.
And that is our focus and has been for the last few quarters to improve those pieces of business.
I don’t really believe that pricing is a factor in the sense of adversely impacting those businesses.
I believe that some of it for us is product rationalization and having the right structure to really -- to approach those markets and to sell effectively in those markets.
Okay.
And then kind of a bigger picture question Rick.
I mean I think obviously stock’s done very very well and I think the big debate taking place is what will this next up-cycle or the 2011 selling season anyhow look like relative to the big year in 2008 and people are having a tough time trying to quantify that.
So I mean without necessarily obviously giving guidance and so forth.
How do -- how are you thinking about next year relative to prior cycles in 2008 in particular? Is it going to be a blowout year? Is it going to be moderate growth over ‘09 I mean just qualitatively what are your views on where we’re heading into here in 2011? I think the way that I would describe that or answer that Ryan is to really look at it in terms of what we’ve done with inventory as one indicator.
As I mentioned our inventory is up and a big part of the reason for the inventory increase is laying in more inventory in terms of material and parts in anticipation of a positive pleasant surprise in terms of demand.
I say a positive total surprise in that it’s a very very difficult one to predict as you saw in 2008 as it really took off.
We’re seeing those kind of strong factors in terms of commodity prices and economic conditions for farmers today.
But there are some differences 2007 we saw a few more drought conditions in the U.S.
that also drove some demand in 2008.
Now we’re seeing some things in terms of the demand that’s coming from the Section 179 the additional tax benefit.
So there are a number of factors that apply here.
And international markets we saw those really start to turn on in some of the developing markets in 2008 but shutoff in 2009 due to capital limitations.
So some of those capital issues are now starting to be addressed or disappear.
So it’s a very difficult one to predict and the way we’re handling it is to have upside and downside type forecast and to put in additional inventory in anticipation.
Okay.
And then finally just one housekeeping item Dave.
You mentioned in your discussion of non-recurring items you mentioned the OpEx for Digitec.
And so we’d understand that some of that OpEx will go away and if so can you quantify that for us? No.
I think the Digitec OpEx will remain because it’s an acquisition that we did right at the end of last fiscal year Ryan.
I think that Q2 would have some reduced dollars but pretty significant leverage in terms of what we expect going forward.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for your time guys.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Schon Williams with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hi.
I just wanted to specifically talk about international irrigation.
I know you guys highlighted Australia in the slide deck and I know recently we’ve seen very heavy rain in that geography.
Is there any concern that we may see some disruption to sell to the next quarter or two because of heavy rains? Yeah.
I think that there is some concern that we could see some disruption in the market due to rains.
However I’d say that our international markets are pretty diverse in the sense that there’s numerous markets and they’re spread all over the world and that -- from time-to-time some will be affected by weather conditions or very specific economic conditions or government funding.
And I don’t really see that having a significant impact on any period for us because there are so many different international markets that make up our total international revenues.
Okay.
And then just can we give an outlook on what you’re seeing in terms of the acquisition pipeline what you’re -- you did Digitec here last quarter what you’re looking at over the next several quarters and what the opportunities might be? Yeah.
Well we continue to look for acquisitions that are tied to water use efficiency or transportation safety and security which are really our two core business segments.
And what we’re finding is numerous product or numerous types of businesses in those categories.
However we’re very selective in terms of what we go after.
We have a very active list.
We track probably 4 to 500 companies in terms of our data base that we’ll look at and companies that we will make contact with from time-to-time.
But we’re selective in terms of the acquisitions that fit those criteria.
And I’d say that the environment is still pretty good.
We are seeing more private equity involvement in potentially bidding up pricing on some deals.
However we generally do not participate in competitive auctions of businesses.
We generally pull out of those.
So we’re more selective and targeted in terms of our acquisitions.
But I’m still optimistic about the acquisition alternatives.
What we’ve seen in the last couple quarters has been really acquisitions of more technology type businesses which are good bids but it really is -- we’re looking for more businesses in probably the $50 million revenue range.
Okay.
And then finally in the past you guys have talked about opportunities for QMB being somewhere around I guess $100 to $150 million worth of projects that you’re tracking.
Does that number still sound right would you upgrade that downgrade that how -- what’s your feeling there? I wouldn’t change that list.
I will say that the list has typically consisted of projects that will total between that $100 and $150 million range and during the course of the year projects will be dropped off the list as they’ve initiated and turned into orders as we have seen in the past couple of quarters.
Others get added and some will come off the list due to changes in plans or funding limitations and many will remain on the list with somewhat uncertain or indeterminable dates.
So but that active -- that list is active and we continue to monitor that.
But in addition to that we have another list of potential projects where our discussions are very early or introductory stages that represent good QMB projects.
However we don’t know if they will ever turn into a project and they have just (inaudible) periods that could be three years or more.
Has that list been growing over the last several quarters? I honestly couldn’t say.
I don’t monitor that list as closely as I do the first list.
I’d say that it remains very solid and our goal is to grow that list with projects that we identify as potential projects.
Okay.
Thanks for your comments.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Jon Braatz with Kansas City Capital.
Good morning.
I’m sorry.
All my questions were answered.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Our next question will come from the line of David Rose with Wedbush Securities.
Good morning.
I had a couple questions if we can kind of work through the first of which is the backlog and get a little bit more color on your expectations about the anticipated work through the backlog on a quarterly basis.
How much would you expect in the second and third and fourth quarters? Our backlog typically is less than a -- certainly a quarter and generally less than a month’s worth of backlog so I don’t anticipate any carryover into the next quarter of a backlog.
Our backlog at the end of the next quarter will be based on the order flow during the second quarter.
Okay.
So no international component to that mostly it’s domestic? Well I’m referring primarily to the irrigation backlog.
And I would say whether it’s international or domestic it will flow through the quarter.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And the second question and I actually have two more is on the environmental expense as I recall that those incremental expenses began in the second quarter of last year.
You should roll over that incremental expense in this coming second quarter.
Is that fair or should we expect… I missed that last part of what you said.
The environmental expenses… Yeah.
…that you incurred in this period you incurred similar expenses starting in the second quarter of last year.
So are we rolling over that expense or -- in this coming second quarter will we see an additional incremental above that 700? It’s a timing difference David and your initial comment is correct.
So we did book about that same number in the second quarter of last year.
We’ve booked that number in the first quarter.
I don’t anticipate that booking in the second quarter again this year.
Okay.
So we’ll get a benefit from that.
And then the… The one point I would add as clarification to that David is this is not something that just came up in the second quarter of last year.
These have been ongoing type expenses often less than this amount but it is part of an ongoing process in working through this with the EPA.
So we really don’t know what that amount will be or when we will have those expenses.
So this has been ongoing for many years many.
It’s just there are some quarters where it’s more material and we will end up disclosing and discussing it.
This is sort of pay as you go by the way or are some of these accruals? These are accruals David that we accrue when we know what our next phase of work will be and we can estimate it.
So you have some visibility at least a quarter ahead of time? Generally.
Okay.
Can we expect an expense -- well I guess you would have expensed it if we had.
We shouldn’t expect a second quarter expense like this unless you go through the -- with the EPA? Correct.
Okay.
And then the headwind that we are facing this year versus last year in the second quarter the approximately $600 000 in expenses related to the work incentive program the benefit that you had last year you don’t expect to have that benefit this year or at least the same amount.
What do you expect to do to compensate for that? I don’t know if you can give us any color some of the initiatives and if you will be able to compensate for that difference? Well first on the -- that was Nebraska advantage credits.
Those were state credits for employment and growth initiatives.
I don’t expect to see a significant amount or a material amount this year.
We did not book any in the first quarter and as you correctly pointed out we did have a credit that we booked in the prior year.
So is there anything that you’re doing I mean in terms of your lean initiatives anything that you’re looking at that can compensate for the $600 000 difference? Yeah.
We continue to push lean in all of our factories.
We do have some growth initiatives in our SG&amp;A that Rick commented on specifically.
But there are initiatives both in terms of cost reduction and in lean initiatives at all of our factories.
Okay.
And the last question is Rick had mentioned some of the projects you had had in terms of product rationalization particularly in the infrastructure business.
Are there any other KPIs outlined by Steve in the QMB business and can you give us some color on the progress? There’s nothing that I would lay out at this point.
I think it’s a little early.
I would say that we are in the process now as you know Steve joined and he has been really developing an in-depth understanding of each of the businesses and the customers and we’re in the first phase of reorganizing and restructuring that piece of business.
So I think it’s a little early but I would expect that we’ll continue to make progress on this objective throughout fiscal 2011 and in future periods be able to report more in terms of some of those KPIs.
Okay.
And sorry and last question is I noticed that you did have an additional expense on a cash flow statement in terms of acquisition.
$1.3million that I see is that related to Digitec? No it’s not.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2011 we acquired a small technology company based outside of the U.S.
that produces and sells specialized irrigation systems for precision irrigation.
And their technology will be integrated into our controls offering and then marketed through qualified Lindsay dealers worldwide.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Michael Coleman with Sterne Agee.
Agee</strong> The question I had for you you mentioned the capacity was running 65%.
Is that correct? Correct.
Agee</strong> Okay.
So what I was looking at was given the acceleration in the business is that a measurement for average in the quarter November exiting the quarter or is that something that you’re running at today? This is kind of an average Michael of our estimated capacity at this time in terms of total irrigation production capacity.
Now I would also add that our irrigation capacity is somewhat variable in the sense that we can add additional capacity fairly easy to many of the operations not all of them things like tube mills are a little more difficult but in terms of assembly and other types of things we can add capacity pretty easily.
This is looking at it on a global capacity basis for the irrigation product line.
Agee</strong> Okay.
Any -- in terms of your plant in Nebraska whether that would be running below or above that average capacity 65%? I would probably put it into that range somewhere between the 65% 70% of capacity level but again I would caution this is not hard capacity.
This would be kind of a practical capacity level that can be adjusted fairly easily in many of the operations.
Agee</strong> Okay.
In terms of the last time you kind of passed through this threshold of 65% utilization or so I mean was that in ‘07 event or did that happen in 2008? I’d say certainly in 2008.
I’d say I think we were lower in capacity utilization in ‘07.
I don’t remember the specifics.
But I think the other factor that this is tied to is that you’re certainly looking at is incremental leverage that comes from this additional production level I assume And I’d also point out that our overhead on a percentage of cost of goods sold is relatively low.
So there’s not a significant fixed overhead amount in a percentage of cost of goods sold.
So there is not significant upside leverage that comes from the incremental volume.
What we saw in 2008 we ramped up -- was that we had ramped up so fast that we actually achieved a level of inefficiency because we had to do it in such a short period of time.
We’re trying to anticipate things of that nature today and be able to respond better to rapidly changing markets.
Agee</strong> Okay.
And you made some comment earlier regarding inventory in anticipation.
How do you feel about your supply chain today in terms of its ability to respond to robust demand? I think that was also an issue in 2008 on some component.
It was.
And I would come back to the comments on capacity.
Our primary problem -- difficulties in 2008 were not directly related to our capacity to build and ship product.
It was more related to our -- the supply chain’s capacity to get components to us in -- and for us to get those processed through and out to customers.
And I would say that I think we are in a decent position with the supply chain.
However we did take some action to anticipate more and add in some more inventory.
But I do think that if there was a very significant ramp-up in the market that affected not only us but other equipment manufacturers consuming the inventories in the supply chain we’ll end up with a difficult time.
So I don’t think that that is -- that we’re out of the woods or that that is an issue that we wouldn’t face this time with a similar type or very rapid ramp-up.
I don’t know if it’s at the same level but I do think that it would be possible again.
Agee</strong>  Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question will come from Sean Boyd with Westcliff Capital Management.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
Congrats on the real nice start to the year here in terms of the backlog.
If I could first question I just want to clarify comments that Dave made earlier regarding the increase -- the year-over-year increase in the operating expenses.
If I heard correctly he called out $1.5 million of non-recurring expenses which tells me that we had a core recurring operating expense level of about $16 million this quarter.
Is that correct?  Well just to comment on that specifically of that 1.5 700 000 was in the EPA and as Rick commented that’s a little tough to predict and in terms of the timing of when those expenses will occur.
But yeah I did say there was $1.5 million of timing issues in the quarter.
Okay.
And from other answers on that EPA -- EPA expenses that number is ongoing but fluctuates quarter to quarter? That’s correct.
And just to give you a sense of that we did about $700 000 last year and the year before about $1.1 million for the year.
For the fiscal year? Yeah.
Got it.
‘09 and ‘10.
Got it.
Okay.
Great.
And moving over to the infrastructure segment for a second if we look at the seasonality of the business and really we have to pull out the QMB revenues given how much they can swing quarter to quarter if you say just the non-QMB revenues is there a -- it looks like last year we had a seasonal drop from November into February.
Is that due to winter perhaps? Is there a seasonality that I should think about having again here this year? Yeah.
There is some seasonal aspect to it.
If you think about the other road safety products which would be crash cushions and some of the other safety products like that those will be tied to either road repairs or highway build.
So it’s not unusual to see those drop off during the winter periods because you’re just not seeing the road construction happening then.
Okay.
Would you expect about a similar change in terms of the percentage drop that you had had last year? We’re starting off a much higher number this year that $21 million level? I really can’t comment on the percentage because I just don’t have that in front of me to look at the detail level to know if it would be a similar percent.
And as I mentioned the business is a little complex in that.
We have the road safety products.
We also have railroad products and diversified manufacturing and tubing which will be less impacted by the seasonal change.
But the road safety products would be.
So I really can’t comment on the percentage of decline that would be expected or change.
Got it Rick.
That’s still helpful.
One last question for you on the non-QMB infrastructure revenues here.
Given that we’re not expecting the new highway spending bill any time soon what -- can you give us a -- do you expect to be able to keep this business flat? Would you target a 20% growth rate? Can you give us what you think those markets are growing at without QMB and without big influx from the spending bill? I think the way I would answer that is to say our expectation is to continue to grow this business with or without that highway bill.
And I think there’s a number of other pieces to this.
Certainly there’s the QMB piece.
As I mentioned the railroad piece contract manufacturing and the tubing and we are seeing growth in other sectors of this business other than just QMB.
So my expectation and I know Steve our President of that business expectation is continued growth in that with or without the highway bill in place.
Very helpful.
Last question from me is going back to the Section 179 tax incentive.
And Rick I think you mentioned this earlier as one of the things that’s probably helping that backlog just a bit right now.
If I understand it correctly those have been extended into 2011.
So number one is that correct and number two what would be the change? Isn’t this going to be something that continues to help you in the coming tax year? Yeah.
It is correct that they were extended and yeah I believe it will continue to help us in the coming tax year.
My reference was to the timing of the revenues and that there is an expectation that the equipment be as I understand it installed prior to year-end in order to get the tax benefit at the end of the year.
So we know that there were customers who were rushing to get those machines in.
To what extent our revenues were tied to that I really couldn’t comment.
I would say that if the revenue was in November it’s a little tough to think that they’re going to be all installed and up and running say in December.
But there will be a typical push at the end of the calendar year to get machines out when that benefit exists as it does this year and will next year.
Got it.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we have no further questions at this time.
Do you have any closing remarks? Yeah.
For our business overall the global long-term drivers of water conservation population growth increased importance of biofuels and improvements in infrastructure remain very positive.
Lindsay is committed to achieving earnings growth through global market expansion improvement in margins and strategic acquisitions.
We thank you for your questions and participation in this call today and wish you all a safe and happy holiday season.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may all disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Holly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties and which reflect management’s current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 were $120.2 million increasing 41% over the same quarter last year.
Net earnings were $11.3 million or $0.89 per diluted share compared with $6 million or $0.48 per diluted share in the prior-year second quarter.
Total revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2011 were $209.3 million increasing 22% from the same period last year.
Net earnings for the first six months were $15.6 million or $1.23 per diluted share compared to $12.7 million or $1.01 per diluted share for the first six months of fiscal 2010.
In the U.S.
irrigation market revenues were $66.5 million for the second quarter increasing 72% over the same period last year.
Conditions in the U.S.
Agricultural market supported robust demand for irrigation equipment.
Commodity prices rose over the same period last year with corn increasing 86% soybeans up 43% and wheat increasing 45%.
The USDA projects U.S.
2011 net farm income to be the highest on record and 20% higher than 2010 creating positive economic conditions for U.S.
farmers.
We are now in the midst of our primary irrigation selling season and quote and order activity are significantly more robust than the same time last year.
For the first six months of fiscal 2011 domestic irrigation revenues were $103 million increasing 45% over the first half of last year.
In the international market irrigation revenues were $25.2 million for the second quarter decreasing 14% from the same period last year.
Export revenues decreased in Latin America during the second quarter primarily due to a return to more normalized sales levels in Mexico as compared to unusually high sales in the same quarter of last year driven by a requirement changes in the government subsidy available to growers.
Middle East sales were also somewhat lower in the quarter likely due to the recent turmoil in the region.
For the first six months of fiscal 2011 international irrigation revenues were $48.6 million decreasing 3% from the same time last year.
Export revenues during the first half of fiscal 2011 were lower in Latin America Canada and the Middle East partially offset by higher sales in China and Western Europe.
The long-term market drivers of improving diets in a growing worldwide population combined with water use efficiencies available for mechanized irrigation systems continue to be positive drivers for global irrigation equipment demand.
Infrastructure segment revenues were $28.5 million increasing 65% from the second quarter of last year driven by higher QMB sales rail product sales and contract manufacturing revenues.
Quarter revenues included the billing for the remainder of a major Quickchange Movable Barrier project on the East Coast of the U.S.
and a new Movable Barrier project in Puerto Rico.
Opportunities for selling and/or leasing our Movable Barrier products which provide a very cost effective way to safely manage lane capacity remains excellent.
While the outlook for general government funded infrastructure spending remains challenging due to global government budget constraints interests in the QMB solution remain strong particularly with whole supported roads and bridges.
Our active near-term QMB project list has decreased somewhat during recent months as we've completed projects.
However new potential projects are added to the list as developed.
Year-to-date at the end of the second quarter infrastructure revenues were $57.7 million increasing 15% from the same time last year driven primarily by higher QMB sales.
Gross profit was $34 million for the second quarter versus $22.1 million in the same quarter last year.
Gross margins were 28.3% compared to 26% for the second quarter last year.
Infrastructure margins increased due to increased revenues of higher margin QMB products.
Irrigation margins were comparable to the second quarter of last year after eliminating the prior year's second fiscal quarter benefit from Nebraska State economic development incentive wage and investment tax credits.
During the quarter irrigation margins benefited somewhat from the leveraging of fixed factory expenses and from the acquisition of Digitec offset by the adverse effect of rising steel prices in a competitive market environment.
Fuel cost increases realized in the quarter were approximately 12%.
Operating expenses for the second quarter were $16.9 million versus $15.2 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2010.
The rising operating expenses are attributable to higher engineering and R&amp;D expenses sales commission on QMB projects and the inclusion of operating expenses related to the Digitec and WMC businesses acquired during the past year.
Operating expenses as a percentage of sales were 14.1% for the quarter compared to 17.9% for the same period last year.
Our order backlog was $64.3 million on February 28 2011 as compared to $59.7 million on November 30 2010 and $33.6 million on February 28 2010.
Backlog was higher at the end of the second quarter as compared to the same time last year in both irrigation and infrastructure.
Irrigation equipment backlog approximately doubled over the same time last year and lead times on delivering equipment to dealers was relatively unchanged.
While the irrigation backlog was quite high at the end of the quarter it was still significantly below the highest second quarter backlog which occurred in fiscal 2008 due in part to improved throughput in the Nebraska factory.
Cash and cash equivalents of $78.4 million were $13.2 million lower compared to the same time last year.
Accounts receivable increased $21.8 million due to higher sales and inventories increased $7.7 million over this time last year.
Debt decreased $11.8 million over this time last year while at the same time the company had invested approximately $8 million in technology-oriented acquisitions.
In summary results for both the Irrigation and Infrastructure segments were significantly improved over the same quarter last year.
In the Irrigation segment increased commodity prices have resulted in improved farmer sentiment globally.
While the improvement in sentiment has had the most immediate effect on the U.S.
market conditions for our equipment we anticipate continued improvement in market conditions in most of the international markets as well.
And in the Infrastructure segment we continue to see strong interest in our Quickchange Movable Barrier systems and road safety products in spite of the U.S.
Highway Bill uncertainty.
In addition our strong balance sheet supports the continuation of our disciplined process to find accretive acquisitions to add new businesses and product lines and to invest in organic growth opportunities.
I would now like to open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Drab William Blair.
First I have a question just on the QMB sales.
So my understanding was that the East Coast project was about a $15 million project and it's about – has incurred $8 million of that right in the first fiscal quarter.
So we're expecting about $7 million in this quarter.
First of all are those numbers roughly in line with reality? And then could you tell us what the total QMB sales were in the second quarter including that Puerto Rico project? That is roughly in line Brian.
And I would say that the QMB sales in total were approximately 50% of the Infrastructure segment sales.
Okay.
And then in your backlog number are you including any QMB sales? I can't say if there are QMB sales in there.
I really don't know off the top.
I suspect there are some.
I don't know to what extent.
There's not a specific large project that I'm aware of that's in that number but there’s typically some QMB sales in it.
Okay.
And then can you give us any sense for -- in the last couple of quarters you talk about these QMB commissions of course as being a material item in the SG&amp;A.
Can you give us a sense for what the percentage commission rate is on those sales or maybe a dollar value for the second quarter and anything that could give us an idea? Brian it's Dave.
Commission rates are generally 5% or less depending on the project.
And commissions in the second quarter were similar to what they were in the first quarter.
So in the $600 000 range.
Okay.
And then just lastly can you talk little bit about steel prices and how material a headwind that was for you in this most recent quarter and what you're expecting going forward? Well as you know steel is an important part of our cost of goods sold.
It's roughly 1/3 of our cost of goods sold.
So what happens with steel can have a significant impact.
What we did see in the second quarter were steel increases equated to probably about 12% and we did pass through price increases through the quarter.
However we did find that we had difficulty in those price increases sticking.
So there was a little more price concession in this quarter or let's say adjustments to discounts than what we've seen in some other quarters.
And I attribute most of that to timing and the market kind of catching up to what's happening with steel prices.
Now that said we had continued to see steel increases and more price increases pass through coming off of the second quarter.
But we do believe that steel will be leveling out.
We're seeing some indications of that taking place in the future months and I’m not going to project the specific data on that but I would say that we have seen a competitive environment in the second quarter with a little bit of a lag in terms of the market catching up to steel pricing.
Okay.
And if I could go back to QMB for one more quick second.
This Puerto Rico project can you give us a ballpark to how big a project that is or if it was completed in the quarter? Brian I don't think we want to get into the specific size of QMB projects.
We have tended to try not to but I think you could get there pretty easily.
Like I said I think if you look at total infrastructure sales it was roughly a QMB would be roughly about 50% of that.
You can't tell us if that was completed in the quarter or if there's more to come with...
That project was completed in the quarter.
The next question comes from the line of Schon Williams BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Could you guys just talk a little bit about the supply chain what you're seeing there? There has been lots of rumblings on at least on the tire side.
Possibly some difficulty getting products out the door there.
And then I'm assuming no but any exposure maybe on the motors or anything coming out of Japan any effect there? Well what we've seen so far Schon is really nothing that would impact or has impacted delivery to our customers.
So I would say at this point there have been some times when we've been a bit hand to mouth with some component tires was one of those at sometime.
But based on our current production schedules and forecasts and arrangements we have with suppliers we believe that we're okay at this stage.
We don't foresee a shortage.
On the other hand I would say that I am hearing of different types of products that are affected by electronic components and things coming out of Japan that could downstream have an impact on us.
But I'm not aware of anything at this point that impacts that supply.
Okay do you have anyone that you directly source from in Japan right now either on the circuit boards or the motors? I'm not aware of any.
I would say Digitec may have some.
But I'm not aware of any that would have a significant or any kind of an impact.
So no there's none that I'm aware of.
Okay.
And then it looks like the Obama administration has backed off of some of the new regulation I guess related to the railroad industry in regards to signage and electronic communication.
How do you see that affecting your rail and signage business? Well we've seen some discussion and some proposed legislation that would change the requirements for PTC positive train control that could affect the implementation of PTC for the railroads across the board in terms of the timing of the implementation or the pace of implementation.
However in our discussions with our customers we really don't foresee that affecting the demand or timing of shipments on the structures that we sell.
So we really haven't seen any indication that that would affect that demand today.
The demand that you're seeing today is not driven by PTC? I mean is it more of a maintenance-type product? It's a combination.
I would say that some of it is primarily more maintenance.
But as the railroads are addressing PTC they are also addressing maintenance issues and we have seen more demand come from that in that process.
So I would say it isn't directly related to PTC but there is an indirect relationship.
And from the indications we have from our customer base it really is not impacted by that at this time.
Okay.
And then on the international side for irrigation I mean it looks like you got hit maybe in the quarter by some of the turmoil that we're seeing in the Middle East.
What would you expect maybe for the next quarter or two going forward as assuming we get some positive development in that particularly in that region I mean would you expect international to start to accelerate here? I just would have at this point given the macro environment I probably would have expected a little bit more in terms of growth.
So I'm just kind of thinking what are you guys seeing here for the short term? Well I think the first aspect of that is I wouldn't put too much on the Middle East turmoil.
I think it has had some impact in terms of our recurring revenue out of that region but it's not a significant impact in the quarter.
For us in the quarter obviously one of the impacts on a comparative basis was the return to more normalized sales level in Mexico.
But that said I think the more important question is where is the growth and what's happening in terms of growth opportunities in the international markets.
And the answer is that in talking with our people they are seeing that growth occurring.
And I'd say that there has been a lag effect versus the growth or the opportunities we saw occurring in the U.S.
It is happening.
We are seeing it occurring in more projects that are being announced or being pursued.
So we expect to see continued strengthening in growth of the international markets at this time.
But I think that the Middle East part of it is really a pretty small impact.
Right I understood.
And where are you seeing what geography specifically is maybe driving some of that international growth? Well the areas where we continue to see growth is China certainly the CIS countries Eastern Europe and South America in general.
Those areas we continue to see good growth.
In some cases we have been seeing ramping up in the last few months.
The next question is coming from the line of Ryan Connors Janney Montgomery Scott.
I want to get your take Rick on a bigger-picture issue and that is the Conservation Resource Program CRP.
And we've been hearing some anecdotal evidence about those government payouts right now look obviously a lot less compelling than farming some of that land.
So we've been hearing that some of that land will be coming out of the CRP.
In theory that could drive some dryland conversion.
What's your take on that and has that impacted your business already I guess is the first piece? And then what's your outlook for whether or not that will impact the demand in the balance of this year and into 2012? Well like you we've heard some of the same comments.
I can't say that I've seen anything tangible in that Ryan on a change to occur.
I do think that if land does come out of CRP one of the issues that will certainly be considered is how to improve the efficiency of that land.
So from that it would probably look at irrigation as a good solution for improving that efficiency.
We haven't really heard much come out.
I will say that I've looked at the from this past quarter at the warranty kind of data or the data that we collect in terms of where systems are installed and we are seeing a larger percentage of systems going into conversion and into dryland.
And that replacement was down some I believe that's correct.
I'll check my statistics on that but I think that was what the numbers were showing.
Okay.
But in terms of a quantification you don't have any in-house view on x number of acres coming out and expectation that that's going to drive some tangible-specific opportunity in the near term? No I don't.
I don't have anything that specific.
Okay.
And then just my one other question was just within the domestic market U.S.
market can you just talk about the regional strength there specifically whether or not you've seen disproportionate strength in the south east and kind of the cotton regions? And then maybe where else are you seeing strength in areas that are less strong? Well generally we're seeing strength across the United States.
It's been very strong in almost all markets.
So we've seen it in the traditional obviously corn wheat soybean markets and cotton markets.
So we've seen quite a bit of strength in most of the regions.
I can't say that there is any one that kind of stands out as not seeing where we haven't really seen much growth.
But they are all pretty strong across most of the U.S.
And I do want to come back to the percentage in terms of dryland replacement conversion.
Roughly what I was seeing is in this past quarter or I think this is year-to-date I should say that dryland has probably been about 42% of the sales conversion in the U.S.
about 43% and the remainder is replacement.
At this time there are no further questions.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Parod for closing remarks.
For our business overall the global long-term drivers of water conservation population growth increasing importance of biofuels and improvements in infrastructure remain positive.
In addition to our commitment to continual business enhancements and process improvement we have an ongoing disciplined acquisition process that will generate additional growth opportunities throughout the world in water and infrastructure.
Lindsay is committed to achieving earnings growth through global market expansion improvements in margins and strategic acquisitions.
We thank you for your questions and participation in this call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's Lindsay Corporation Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Thea and I will be the conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation Third Quarter 2011 Earning Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties and which reflect management’s current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Joining me today for this call are Jim Raabe who recently joined Lindsay Corporation as Chief Financial Officer; Tim Paymal our Chief Accounting Officer; and Dave Downing President of International Operations.
As many of you are aware David served in a dual role in the past few years as CFO and President of International Operation.
Now with Jim Raabe on board David will be able to focus his full attention to the growth of our International businesses.
We're pleased to have someone of Jim's caliber and breadth of experience join our team and I would like to thank Dave for his willingness to serve in the dual role during the recession and during our CFO search.
These changes strengthen our team of results oriented people and support our continued growth.
Revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 were $153.4 million increasing 53% over the same quarter last year.
Net earnings were $15.3 million or $1.20 per diluted share compared with $6.2 million or $0.50 per diluted share in the prior year's third quarter.
Total revenues for the first 9 months of fiscal 2011 were $362.8 million increasing 34% from the same period last year.
Net earnings for the first 9 months rose 63% to $30.9 million or $2.44 per diluted share compared to $1.50 per diluted share in the first 9 months of fiscal 2010.
In the U.S.
irrigation market revenues were $76.7 million for the third quarter increasing 60% over the same period last year.
Favorable economic conditions in U.S.
agricultural markets continued to fuel strong demand for irrigation equipment.
Agriculture commodity prices remained comparatively high with corn increasing 111% soybean's up 47% wheat increasing over 79% from the same time last year.
In February the USDA projected U.S.
2011 net farm income to be the highest on record and 20% higher than 2010.
Order flow continued to be robust throughout the peak U.S.
irrigation selling season which has now ended.
In spite of the currently high agricultural commodity prices uncertainty has been created in the U.S.
agriculture market over the future of processor tax credits for corn-based ethanol.
Significant reductions or elimination of the credits will likely impact corn demand and pricing in that 35% to 40% of corn usage in the U.S.
is for ethanol.
In addition the significant rainfall in the eastern corn belt delayed planting and some parts of the corn belt remained affected by flooding all of which will likely impact yields and profit potential for farmers.
However most of the affected acres are not in the primary U.S.
irrigation market which is west from Missouri River.
International irrigation revenues were $50.2 million for the third quarter increasing 55% from the same period last year.
Revenues increased in nearly all international markets most notably in China Europe and Brazil.
For the first 9 months of fiscal 2011 Global Irrigation segment revenues were $278.6 million rising 38% over the same period last year.
Long-term market drivers of improving diets and a growing worldwide population combined with the water use efficiencies available for mechanized irrigation systems continue to be positive drivers for global irrigation equipment demand.
Infrastructure segment revenues were $26.5 million increasing 35% from the third quarter of last year.
Infrastructure segment results improved over the prior year on higher QuickChange Moveable Barrier sales and growth in the Railroad and Tubing businesses.
We continue to see strong interest in our Moveable Barrier products which provide a very cost-effective way to safely add lane capacity.
The outlook for Infrastructure spending remains unclear with uncertain timing at a multi-year U.S.
highway bill and significant government budget constraints in Europe.
Year-to-date at the end of the third quarter Infrastructure revenues were $84.2 million increasing 21% from the same time last year.
Gross profit was $41.5 million for the third quarter versus $25.3 million in the same quarter last year.
Gross margins were 27% compared to 25.2% for the third quarter of last year primarily reflecting improvements in our international irrigation margins and operational improvements in our Infrastructure business segment.
Operating expenses for the third quarter were $18.4 million versus $15.2 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2010.
Operating expenses as a percentage of sales were 12% for the quarter compared to 15.2% for the same period last year.
The increase in operating expenses included higher personnel-related costs incremental operating expenses from the acquisition of Digitec and WMC and additional expenses for environmental monitoring and remediation as part of our ongoing development and implementation of the EPA work plan at the company's Lindsay Nebraska facility.
Our order backlog was $43.3 million on May 31 2011 compared to $33.9 million May 31 2010.
May 2011 backlog is higher than the same time last year in both Irrigation and Infrastructure.
While the quarter-end backlog reflects better-than-normal seasonal order level it was still well below the record backlog at the end of the third quarter in fiscal 2008.
Cash and cash equivalents rose 17.1% -- $17.1 million to $100.6 million while debt decreased $4.3 million over the same period and nearly $8 million has been invested in acquisitions since the same time last year.
Accounts receivable rose $30.8 million in higher sales while days sales outstanding and accounts receivable improved.
Inventories increased $5.8 million and inventory turns also improved.
We will continue to use cash repurchase to invest in organic growth opportunities such as new product development geographic expansion funding seasonal and cyclical fluctuations and in the acquisition of synergistic technologies and product lines.
In addition we continue to seek larger synergistic acquisitions representing additional businesses in water use efficiency or transportation safety and security.
In summary significantly increased irrigation equipment demand and improved operating results from our Infrastructure segment were realized in the quarter resulting in record third quarter revenues and earnings.
In the Irrigation segment favorable economic conditions globally resulted in positive farmer sentiment and increased sales.
However the current governmental debt environment will likely lead to additional examination of subsidies and tax credit such as the credit for ethanol processors which may result in changes impacting farmers' future profit potential.
Overall we're confident that increasing agricultural yields to boost food supply improving water use efficiency expanding biofuel production and improving transportation infrastructure will remain global priorities and continue to be strong drivers for our markets long term.
In addition we continue our disciplined approach to finding and integrating accretive acquisitions that add new businesses and/our product lines and to investing in organic growth opportunities.
I'd now like to open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Brian Drab with William Blair.
I'm wondering Rick if you could give us any hint as to what the QuickChange Moveable Barrier sales were in the quarter given that you had really solid growth there solid sales in that business over the last few quarters.
If I'm not mistaken I think that we did a -- going back to the fourth quarter of 2010 something in the $9 million range and then $8 million in the first quarter.
And I think if this number is -- if my notes are correct here about $14 million in the second quarter and how did those look in the third quarter? Well I would characterize the third quarter's QMB sales Brian as significantly less than some of the other quarters and probably in the range of about 20% or less than 20% of the total infrastructure revenue.
So I was pleased to see the growth in the other Infrastructure business segments and the improvement in profitability from those segments so they all contributed to the improvement that we've seen.
Great.
And then could you elaborate a little bit on the productivity improvements that you saw or that you drove in the Infrastructure segment in the quarter? Well a number of the changes that took place in the Infrastructure business have really taken place over the last couple of quarters but they've included things like expense reduction.
We have changed staffing.
They've included automation of some of the manufacturing processes and additional automation including a rationalization of a facility and closing a facility.
So there's a number of factors that have been tied to it and some of them are more operational control type procedures as well including approval of pricing levels and various things.
So all of those things have led to improved results in the Infrastructure business.
Okay great.
And then can you -- just last question could you give a little more detail on specific international regions where you saw strength? I mean you went from $25 million in international irrigation revenue in second quarter to $50 million in the third quarter.
Could you help us understand a little bit better what's going on there? Well in the previous quarter we really hadn't seen the growth yet in some of the international markets and we commented that we felt it was lagging some the U.S.
growth that we had seen.
So what we saw during the third quarter was growth certainly in South America particularly Brazil with emphasis on sugarcane for ethanol but also in Brazil in general and South America in general.
We also saw growth in China and believe that that market is developing really pretty nicely.
The other area that we saw some pretty good growth in was in Eastern Europe in the former Soviet Region.
So all of those areas we saw some good growth in things that have stepped up in the international markets.
The next question will come from Ryan Connors with Janney Montgomery.
Couple questions here.
First off just kind of on the capacity side Rick.
I guess one of the challenges that we're having in terms of figuring out what kind of further upside there could potentially be to unit volumes from here is just what kind of capacity there is both at Lindsay and on an industry basis to deliver that.
So could you just talk a little bit to us about where you are today on a capacity utilization basis in irrigation and just how you think about capacity relative to potential if in fact the industry were to continue growing at this kind of pace? Yes.
As we've talked about in the past we do not have real many specific capacity constraints and that some of our processes can be augmented with manual processes.
I would say that in general we're probably in the range of the let's say 60% to 70% capacity level.
However we can bring in more people and add people to the say the assembly line electronics and different areas to augment that assuming we have the component.
In the international markets with our factories there as we've talked about in that past we're buying tubing outside in many cases and importing some of the materials from the U.S.
in our U.S.
factory.
But in general we don't really see significant capacity constraints.
We may be from time to time more limited by material or component availability.
We haven't really seen any significant constraints there other than we've seen a little bit recently in some LCDs and some electronic components partly related to the incident in Japan.
However in general there's nothing really significant on the horizon from a capacity level capacity constraint level.
Okay and I guess kind of a related question on used pivot sales.
Do you see -- logically one would think that when new pivot sales are so strong that there might be more used pivots as "trade-ins" hitting the market.
Do you see that and what impact if so did that have on demand for new pivots and I guess in particular internationally because I guess logically one of the things that less affluent emerging markets might be a place where the used pivots would be more likely to sell? Well we hear of some concern let's say from time to time in some of the international markets in terms of let's say more availability of used pivots.
I haven't really heard anything recently on that.
I don't believe that's really a factor.
The other part of it that ties into this Ryan is looking at where the pivot sales are going in the United States.
As we talked about in the past typically we've seen quarter-to-quarter and in a normal year it would run about 1/3 going into dry land 1/3 into replacement and 1/3 into conversion.
So obviously the replacement piece would be the bigger concern where we're taking pivots off some of the old pivots off and selling them.
What we've seen this past year I'd say in the past quarter about probably more than 45% of the machines were going into dry land which is not a big surprise given the high commodity prices.
Okay.
And then just a final question I know you touched on this but if you can just talk a little bit more about the related issues of pricing in raw materials is there any -- will there be any contract roll-offs or supply contracts or anything like that that will cause raw material cost to jump for you over the remainder of the year? And then what do you see going on in the price environment just generally in terms of you and your competitors trying to price the product for the higher input cost levels of steel and zinc up and so forth? Well as you know steel is the most significant one.
It is about 1/3 of our cost of goods sold.
What we saw in the -- during the quarter was about a 35% increase in steel cost and we believe steel has now stabilized.
And as you know and we've talked about in the past in times of rising steel prices we tend to cover about 70% or more of our next 3 months or the next quarter's needs in either inventory on hand or through purchase commitments.
And that's a practice that has been in place for quite a while.
We've also -- during times as we're starting to see now when steel stabilizes or decreases may pull that back from that 70% level.
We're following that practice today and we believe we're able to align our pricing with our material costs.
Of course that is dependent sometimes on competitive actions on price.
However I would say that indications from the past quarter are that we've been able to appropriately align that.
The next question will come from Schon Williams with BB&amp;T.
I just wanted to dig in on the irrigation numbers a little bit more.
Seasonally domestic revenues would typically be up kind of 25% 30% in fiscal Q3 versus fiscal Q2.
This quarter came in more like 15%.
I'm just wondering if you have any thoughts about maybe why this quarter was a little bit kind of seasonally weaker than historically? No I don't really have anything that would really characterize it as seasonally weaker.
I do understand your point on this.
However I'd say we had a good second quarter and a good solid third quarter.
I think demand was really pretty robust through both of those periods.
We have seen at times where the third quarter will ramp up a little more significantly than the second quarter.
Some of that has to do weather patterns and things but there was nothing that I would point to that would indicate that there was any change or anything of that nature although obviously the wet weather may have had some impact in terms of the third quarter revenues.
That's where I was going with maybe was there any impact from the flooding that might have either delayed farmer purchases later than normal and might have actually gotten pushed into the fourth quarter? Or are those sales potentially lost and they would actually get pushed into next year? I'm sure that there were some Schon that took place that may have -- where they were impacted by the flooding and heavy rains.
However as I mentioned that's not our primary irrigation market which the primary irrigation market would be west of the Missouri River but I know that there are customers who certainly would not have purchased because of the flooding and the heavy rains in the spring.
Okay.
And then on the international side.
I mean it sounds like the demand was with very broad-based.
I just want to make sure that given that you are seeing broad-based demand across a number of geographic markets then you think that I guess $40 million to $50 million is a sustainable number for the irrigation for the international side? I was just going to say I mean that segment tends to be very lumpy given that it's more project-oriented.
I'm just wondering is this more of a timing issue where we had 2 or 3 projects all kind of hit all at the same time and maybe that number needs to get dialed back over the next quarter or 2? Well as you know we don't give guidance.
So I'm not going to really characterize the number as sustainable or not sustainable.
I would say that you are right that the international markets tend to be lumpier certainly than the U.S.
market.
However some of these regions for example Brazil is not as lumpy and we've seen more sustainable demand in order flow in that region.
We will have some lumpiness in our international revenues because of the nature of a large projects from time to time.
There are no real significant ones that stand out.
We did have a couple of projects in the quarter.
I expect that there could be projects in future quarters on a comparative basis but nothing significant that I would say you should back out from that 10 points.
Okay.
And then last question just on outlook for next year.
I mean there is a large agriculture machinery manufacturer out there talking about U.S.
farm income actually being slightly down during 2012 versus 2011.
I'm just wondering what is your take maybe on that outlook and then if that were to come true that we fell kind of flattish to slightly down farm incomes.
Do you still think you could grow the irrigation side of the business in that environment? Well certainly there's that number of factors and if we're looking at the U.S.
market it will depend on what happens with ending stocks at the end of this season and what takes place or transpires during the next season in terms of yields and harvest and weather and patterns -- weather patterns as well.
However outside of the U.S.
when we get to the international markets they're significantly less developed from an irrigation standpoint than the U.S.
Market.
So I believe that the opportunities that exist in the international markets are different than they would be potentially for let's say ag equipment dealer or sellers or manufacturers in that we're really developing the sustainable irrigation in those markets.
The next question will come from Andrew O'Connor [ph] With Harris Investments.
Rick I wanted to know what are Lindsay's priorities for cash which continues to build? The company's in great shape that way.
Well yes.
Well as you know our cash balance has increased.
In terms of priority I would say our first priority would be organic growth.
As you know we also pay a dividend which we continually annually review and have increased for a number of years and we'll continue to review that.
Outside of that I would say acquisitions and acquisitions that may be first product line or technology-type acquisitions synergistic to our existing businesses.
As I mentioned earlier we also look for larger acquisitions that would be synergistic in some way that would be in water use efficiency or the transportation safety and security similar to our Infrastructure business.
I often get asked is there a priority over -- of one over the other and I'd say that certainly if we can find appropriate sizable acquisitions tied into the water side of it that is a bit of preference but we do look for acquisitions in any parts of those areas that I mentioned in any of those areas.
All right that's helpful.
And then I'm relatively new to the company is there an economic return that you guys target in terms of deploying new capital? Or how should investors think about that? We look at any of the deployment of capital in terms of our weighted average cost of capital and what that rate would be and we do discounted cash flow analysis and if we're looking at acquisitions we look at multiple models where we'll look at best case most probable case and worst-case scenarios before we are ready to deploy capital and make a deal.
So the primary measure that we're going to look at initially will be the weighted average cost of capital.
All right sir.
And then lastly can you further characterize the pricing environment for both irrigation systems and infrastructure products and how pricing compares to say maybe 6 to 12 months ago and how you see it trending looking ahead? Mindful of your prior comments but I wanted to know if you could elaborate a little bit more.
Well I would -- my comment on pricing would be that we've seen a pricing environment that has allowed us to pass on material increases appropriately.
It's been a pretty measured pricing environment from the standpoint of no real radical changes other than passing through the material costs in general.
And this is primarily for the irrigation market.
There have been times when we've seen more dramatic shifts from some competitors but that's usually from time to time we'll see that or in certain regions.
And we do see some -- a little more regional variation in price and particularly when it comes to larger projects things get much more competitive.
In the infrastructure market I would define it as pretty stable pricing environment.
We certainly don't have the larger fluctuation pricing due to material cost because they're not really as significant a factor any one material in our infrastructure product line.
So it's a little more stable pricing environment in infrastructure.
[Operator Instructions] The next question will come from Jon Braatz with Kansas City Capital.
You talked a little bit about the ethanol issue.
I'm not sure when that's going to be clarified in Washington or -- but let's say it drags out a little bit.
Do you think that it's -- that the ethanol uncertainty could by itself weigh on some of the equipment purchasing decisions that your customers might make in the latter half of this year and when the selling season begins? Do you think that uncertainty could weigh on those decisions? I think that it's certainly possible Jon.
I don't really foresee that having a big impact in terms of weighing on the decision process while pending.
I don't think that's what most of our customers are thinking about today.
They're looking at some pretty strong commodity prices.
I also believe that they're looking at what is that potential impact if that credit goes away.
And the things that I've run on it would indicate that there's quite a variation in thought on this in terms it may not have much effect in terms of the processors and because the demand is there there is a need to produce ethanol.
Or it could have a pretty significant effect on overall corn demand.
So I don't think that's really known and I think our customers in general are taking that wait-and-see approach.
It's not holding them back from making decisions today and I don't foresee that holding us back.
I think the outcome will be a bigger issue for them whatever that -- whichever way it goes.
Okay.
How much of your new irrigation sales do indeed go to the say the corn and soybean market? I don't know that off-hand.
I would tell you that just thinking back to 2008 data what we saw was about 1/3 of the crops that were irrigated about 1/3 of -- sorry about 1/3 of where pivots were applied was irrigating corn at that time.
I can't say that 1/3 of what goes out the doors is going to irrigate corn and soybeans but we did see in the -- I think it was USDA Farm and Ranch Irrigation Survey that it was about 33% from our net range was irrigating corn at that time.
The next question will come from Sean Boyd with Westcliffe [ph] First and I apologize if I missed this but in terms of operating income can you break that down by segment Irrigation and Infrastructure? Sure I can take that question.
Tim Paymal.
The operating income for the Irrigation segment in the quarter was $25.6 million.
And for the Infrastructure segment it was $1.1 million.
That's helpful.
So basically we ran -- yes [indiscernible] solid margins than Irrigation...
Exactly.
The operation margin for the Irrigation segment in the quarter was 20.2% and 4.1% for the Infrastructure segment.
Right.
And that 4% being lower quarter-to-quarter the biggest driver there is just that it's a much lower QMB mix in the quarter? But significantly improved over prior year third quarter 2010.
Yes.
Okay.
Second question for me is just on the backlog and probably goes to me being relatively new to the company.
Backlog down significantly quarter-to-quarter but still up nicely year-over-year and then when I back into implied orders also still up very nice year-over-year.
So kind of 2 things come out of that number.
One should I read much into that quarterly sequential fluctuation in the backlog? And number 2 would you expect sort of the continuation of the nice sort of growth in that backlog bouncing back in the coming quarter? Well I think the -- from the quarter sequential decline I would describe that as fairly normal sequential adjustment or decline from the third -- from the second to third quarter ending backlogs.
I would not read a lot into what the backlog actual backlog numbers says keeping in mind that this is the low end of the season for us.
The primary selling season has ended.
So I think it's nice that the backlog has increased.
But I wouldn't read a lot into that in terms of going forward.
Okay that's helpful and on the order growth.
That -- the question there in terms of the order growth that we're seeing and the 30% year-over-year level here.
Is that a -- given what you're seeing right now is that a fair level to think about going forward? Well I think I understand your question.
And as I said we don't really give guidance.
But the -- I would say that we're pleased with the order growth and it is good solid growth over the previous year but I would not give guidance in terms of what that means for the next quarter or anything of that nature.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time there are no further questions.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Parod for any closing remarks.
Before [ph] our business overall the global long-term drivers of water conservation population growth increase the importance of biofuels and improvements in infrastructure remain positive.
In addition to the overall business enhancements that have taken place we can continue to have an ongoing structured acquisition process that will generate additional growth opportunities throughout the world in water and infrastructure.
Lindsay is committed to achieving earnings growth through global market expansion improvement in margins and strategic acquisitions.
We'd like to thank you for your questions and participation in this call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Rachel and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties and which reflect management’s current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company of those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Joining me on today's call are Jim Raabe our Chief Financial Officer; and Moraine Kuritsky our Chief Accounting Officer.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 we continued to experience growth in irrigation equipment demand over the same period last year.
We also made important steps to advance our business processes for the long term through the final and most significant implementation of our global ERP system at our Nebraska-based operations.
While this implementation represents building capabilities for the long term and represents the final stage of a multiyear project the ERP implementation resulted in inefficiencies at our Lindsay Nebraska facility greater than we anticipated which impacted our earnings for the quarter.
Also during the quarter we record expenses related to an administrative tax ruling in a foreign business unit.
Both of these expenses which are approximately $0.13 of earnings per share should be largely isolated to the quarter.
Revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 were $116.1 million increasing 33% over the same quarter last year.
Net earnings were $5.9 million or $0.46 per diluted share compared to $6 million or $0.48 per diluted share in the prior year's fourth quarter.
Operating margins declined to 8.4% from 11.1% last year.
This decrease was primarily due to lower sales of higher margin QMB products which were very strong in the fourth quarter of last year.
And the incremental expenses in inefficiencies related to the ERP implementation estimated to be approximately $1.6 million pretax in the quarter and the adverse administrative tax ruling of approximately $1 million.
Total revenues for fiscal 2011 were a record $478.9 million an increase of 34% from fiscal 2010.
For the fiscal 2011 year operating margins improved to 11.8% from 10.6% in fiscal 2010.
Net earnings for fiscal 2011 were $36.8 million or $2.90 per diluted share compared to $24.9 million or $1.98 per diluted share for fiscal 2010.
In the U.S.
irrigation market revenues were $47.9 million for the fourth quarter increasing 41% over the same period last year.
Relatively high commodity prices for corn increasing 27% soybeans up 11% from the same period last year continued to support improved irrigation equipment demand.
In August the USDA increased its projected 2011 net farm income to be the highest on record and 31% higher than 2010 creating positive economic conditions for U.S.
farmers.
In addition Section 179 deduction in accelerated depreciation available to farmers on the purchase of new equipment is likely to support solid U.S.
demand for the remaining 2 months of calendar 2011.
For the full fiscal 2011 year U.S.
irrigation revenues were $227.6 million increasing 49% from fiscal 2010.
In the international irrigation market the growth realized in the third quarter continued in the fourth quarter with revenues increasing 87% from the same period last year.
Revenues increased in nearly all international markets most notably in China Brazil Australia and New Zealand and the Middle East.
For fiscal 2011 international irrigation revenues were $142.3 million rising 34% from fiscal 2010.
Long term market drivers of improving diets in a growing worldwide population combined with the water use efficiencies available from mechanized irrigation systems continue to be positive drivers for global irrigation equipment demand.
Infrastructure segment revenues were $24.7 million decreasing 18% from the fourth quarter last year.
On a quarter-to-quarter comparative basis QMB revenues were lower than the fourth quarter fiscal 2011 as last year's fourth quarter had significant QMB project revenues.
Global link [ph] within QMB is with safe traffic litigation solution remains robust in sales for our other road safety products during the quarter.
But predicting the timing of significant projects is difficult given the uncertainty on a multiyear U.S.
Highway Bill and government budget constraints globally.
For the full fiscal 2011 year infrastructure revenues were $109 million increasing 9% from fiscal 2010.
Gross profit was $30.1 million for the fourth quarter versus $25.7 million in the same quarter last year.
Gross margins were 25.9% compared to 29.5% in the fourth quarter last year primarily due to lower revenues of higher margin QMB products.
Irrigation margins were lower in the quarter due to changes in the geographical sales mix growth in international project revenue and inefficiencies resulting from the ERP implementation.
Operating expenses for the fourth quarter increased $4.3 million to $20.3 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011.
The increase in operating expenses included higher incentive compensation inclusion of operating expenses for business acquired in fiscal 2010 ERP implementation expenses and the adverse administrative tax ruling in a foreign business unit.
As stated earlier the adverse foreign tax ruling of approximately $1 million is isolated to the fourth quarter and the consulting expenses for ERP implementation which are approximately $600 000 in the quarter will decline over the next few quarters.
Even with the abnormal incremental expenses operating expenses as a percent of sales improved to 17.5% for the quarter compared to 18.3% for the same period last year.
Our order backlog was $46 million on August 31 2011 as compared to $43.3 million on May 31 2011 and $38.4 million August 31 2010.
The irrigation backlog typically represents less than a month -- one month revenue.
It is therefore not a good indicator of the future revenues.
Cash and cash equivalents of $108.2 million or $24.7 million higher compared with last year while debt decreased $4.3 million over the same period and $6.2 million of acquisitions were completed.
Accounts receivable were $15.4 million higher year-over-year on higher sales while days sales outstanding were nearly level.
Inventory increased $4.2 million on improved inventory turn.
Our primary use of cash remains investing in organic growth opportunities while continuing to seek accretive acquisitions to add new business and/or product lines.
In summary a strong global irrigation performance and solid results from the infrastructure segment even with lower QMB revenues were realized in the quarter.
We also executed key initiatives in the quarter which were essential for our continued long term growth in revenue and earnings.
As stated earlier we completed this final significant stage of our ERP implementation which will improve our capabilities.
During the quarter we completed the acquisition of a small business involved in irrigation engineering field monitoring and broadband Internet services for rural areas.
Though not large in size this acquisition adds to other acquisitions over the last several years that have enhanced our capability to provide comprehensive turnkey solutions to growers worldwide to improve their efficiency in yield.
We enter fiscal 2012 with the backdrop of continued global economic uncertainty.
Yet we're confident that the key drivers to our business are favorable and that the overall -- and over the long term increasing agriculture yields to boost food supply improving water use efficiency expanding biofuel production and improving transportation infrastructure will remain global priorities.
I'd now like to open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Michael Cox from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> My first question just to clarify on the ERP implementation cost side you called out $1.6 million pretax and then you also said $600 000 for consulting expenses.
Does that mean that the difference of $1 million is more of an ongoing expense or is that also sort of a onetime type of charge? No.
The difference in that Mike was that the $1 million is basically in the factory inefficiencies.
The $600 000 was in reference to operating expenses and basically -- primarily consulting fees associated with ERP implementation.
And my comment was that the $600 000 will be phased out over time as we reduce that consulting as we work through the next few quarters.
The $1 million which is tied to the efficiency is a result from actually the inefficiency we saw initially in them implementation.
And what we've seen to date is already some improvement in efficiencies in other words it's coming back up.
But it's going to take working through this quarter to see that return.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
You called out China as a bright spot internationally.
Could you speak to what is driving the growth in China? Are there specific government programs that are moving growers towards mechanized irrigation there? Well I would describe it as there are government programs and there is a government subsidy in most or many of the regions that apply to purchasing pivots that can be equal to half the cost of the machine.
And we're seeing growth in a few specific regions primarily with either large growers or government-sponsored growers in food production.
So the growth is pretty significant but it is limited to a few regions primarily in the North at this time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could ask one last question.
You talked about the accelerated depreciation continuing here through the balance of the year that starts to phase out next year and then completely goes away as the tax vote is written for 2013.
Do you expect -- do you believe that that's pulled-forward demand or maybe could you just speak to how you think that might flow through as the program begins to phase out? Well we're certainly hearing from our dealers and from growers that the Section 179 has their attention in terms of the opportunities.
So I do believe that they will do what they can to take advantage of it this year.
I also believe it's been proposed now to extend that for another year and I wouldn't be too surprised if we saw some extensions take place with that.
But either way I believe that the growers see an opportunity and then they're sitting with cash and they are taking advantage of that opportunity.
Your next question comes from Carter Shoop with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First question can you help us understand how much acquisition-related revenue was in the quarter? Well I can tell you that we had a small acquisition excuse me in the quarter.
The number I believe is -- I'm not going get to the specific acquisition but there were 2 pieces to that.
One was related to the acquisition and I think if you look at the cash flows on the slide deck you'd see it $6.2 million $6.2 million in terms of acquisitions of businesses.
It would also include a payout on earnouts from a previous acquisition.
So I think the combination of those 2 would be what makes up this $6.2 million.
Research Division</strong> And then on the revenue side for the quarter can you give us a rough idea how much the acquisition in the quarter contributed? The acquisition that we made the most recent one we have no contributions in the quarter.
It was right at the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you possibly give us a little bit more color on the backlog? Talk about the percentage of infrastructure related.
I think the primary thing I would say on the backlog it is primarily irrigation.
And as I mentioned that the backlog not very indicative of future sales because irrigations backlog typically represent less than a month’s worth of revenue.
The time when the backlog becomes a little more meaningful is when there are significant QMB projects in the backlog which there is not in the present backlog number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In regards to QMB can you talk about the sales cycle there and then your expectations about how potential wins in the fiscal year '12? Maybe if you could somehow bracket it around opportunities that are -- attribute over $5 million on a product basis? Do you have 3 or 4 of those potential opportunities that are in the sales pipeline? Help us understand some of the opportunities there.
I'll try and characterize this Carter as we typically watch a list of potential projects and we have a couple of different lists.
But the primary one we look at is the one that we believe is a higher probability list which could be in the $75 million to $120 million range at any point in time.
And that project is one that we're typically watching pretty close and expect that some portion of those projects will fall in say the next 12 months.
And one of the things that we often see as we --  and I could talk about one specific project that without naming it that we expected it would fall into the end of this year.
We were then told a few months back it would probably fall into early in 2012.
And this is a fairly sizable one that would be in the -- over $10 million range that now may be at the end of fiscal 2012 or even flip into '13.
So the difficulty with the projects that are on that list is really knowing when they will get the funding and when they'll take place.
But those are ones that we consider to be generally high probability it’s a matter of which fiscal year they will fall in.
So I can't really give you too much color and I don't want to go into any specific project to impact that in anyway.
But I would say that we have a very good active list and that really hasn't changed much but we do see projects shift from time to time.
And as I said I was just referring to the one that was fairly recent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just when we talk about projects over $10 million is there an opportunity that -- besides this one that you kind of mentioned that we could see $1 million or $2 million $10 million plus opportunities awarded in fiscal year '12 or I think it's going to be...
I don't recall the specifics on that from the list.
But my recollection would be that there's probably maybe 3 on the list that would be in that range but it could be more.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Last question if I can.
When you talk to the Board and you guys needed to pull together a business plan for fiscal year '13 help us understand what's some of the most important variables that you look at in trying to help you guys form out a business plan for typically '13 in regards to sales and irrigation.
How much of it is just your net farm income crop prices et cetera? And if we were to sit there and assume that the crop prices going to stay where they are today is there any way to kind of handicap what kind of a year investors should expect on the irrigation business? Well I think the factors that we would look at if we're looking out past '12 let's say to '13 because we're obviously looking at what's happening with commodity prices and farm income.
But generally we're looking much broader and more global in that in terms of overall food production and more supply-/demand-type factors.
Because what we've seen is that as we look out over time that there's -- there definitely are drivers for having to produce more food.
If you look at the FAO projection they're talking about having to produce something like 70% more by 2050.
And we know that that increased production requirement will continue to drive that need.
Which means more efficiency and higher yields in all farmland.
So we're looking at the markets where that need may be greatest.
For example in Eastern Europe and Russia and Ukraine China South America we generally will look at those areas and try and project as best we can what type of growth we would expect.
And as we look at our business we typically project higher growth rates in the international piece of our business say double digits in that 10 to 15.
And certainly we've seen much higher growth this past year in this past quarter in the international business.
And probably more in the 4% 7% kind of growth in the domestic U.S.
market.
But generally we're going look at those long term drivers and estimate what we expect will happen.
But we don't believe that excuse me just looking at the short term commodity prices and/or U.S.
net farm income is the best indicator.
Your next question comes from Schon Williams with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about maybe a little bit about where you see the new ERP system benefiting you the most? Is it in terms of working capital management reducing lead times? Where should we see the most benefit? And what's the timeline for achieving those efficiencies? Well there's a number of factors to this Schon.
The first one is that this particular ERP system that we have just completed the biggest phase of it's the same system that we put into all of our international businesses as we started them up and into the significant acquisitions like Barrier Systems and Watertronics as we've acquired them.
So we are now converted the last big piece which is the Lindsay manufacturing operations in some of our Nebraska-based operations to this system.
What that gives us is capability to look across the business and standardize a lot of the processes but also to more clearly look at things like cost of production on a comparative basis for all businesses throughout the world.
And that allows us to look at things in terms of how we can increase velocity and -- which can have some improvements to the balance sheet as we implement lien [ph].
but also improvements from overall cost basis and making decisions in terms of where product is produced in order to supply a certain market.
And in terms of the timing of that there's another probably subtlety to this conversion in this ERP implementation which is the Lindsay operations had the oldest system of all of them in the group for the most part and highly modified over the years.
So we're implementing basically a pretty clean ERP system which is forcing us to look at all the processes as the system is moving along as well to try and standardize as much as the processes as we can which I think will eliminate bad practices and improve overall inventory management.
So there's a number of big benefits from implementing a more modern state-of-the-art-type system.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it sounds like most of those maybe related to the balance sheet then? Well I wouldn't say so.
I think it's -- I think there'll be as much to the income statement as the balance sheet.
What would be difficult for me to say right now today is how much that will change the balance sheet or the income statement or exactly when that will take place.
I expect that by the end of this next quarter we'll start to see more of the benefits surfacing for us in terms of a broader look across the company.
But those are not necessarily benefits that will translate in the first or second quarter to income statement or balance sheet.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then I wanted to talk maybe a little bit more about the acquisitions.
They look like you had bought at least a part of the acquisition with a consulting service and I'm just interested to see -- I mean are you looking to expand more into service-oriented revenues or is this -- was that acquisition somehow be incorporated into your existing manufacturing operations? I'm just trying to understand how that fits.
Your question is how does that fit? And I would say this is a -- this particular operation as you would describe is somewhat irrigation engineering or consulting.
And they're very premier-type firm with excellent capabilities that go beyond just what they do in terms of engineering -- irrigation engineering which include field monitoring and some moisture sensors and things like that for large customers.
Now we view that as something that is leverage-able across all of our business all around the world and being able to incorporate the type of capability.
They also have a part of their business that is in broadband Internet service and broadband equipment that we see being applicable to a lot of our more rural applications where our FieldNET system our web-based irrigation management system has been very successful.
And more and more as we're talking with customers particularly large ones all around the world they're very interested in expanding to FieldNET and expanding those Internet capabilities and expanding the field management capabilities.
And this acquisition fits in well with that as well as helping us on the front end in some locations outside the United States in terms of being on the front end in irrigation design or irrigation engineering for large projects.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like they will help with kind of the engineering side and the product development side internally.
You're not looking at kind of getting into a whole new business all around those kind of b-to-b service? That's correct.
We're not looking at this as a change of business to really significantly expand consulting.
We're looking at this as a leverage-able capability for the rest of our business.
Your next question comes from Tim Mereenie [ph] with William Blair.
My question has to do with QMB sales.
We're trying to figure out how much it impacts -- impacted your gross margin in the fourth quarter.
So we know or first we believe that QMB sales were $9 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Can you confirm that number and then tell us how much QMB sales were in the fourth quarter of 2011? Right.
I can't confirm that number specifically Tim in terms of what it was for that quarter or this quarter because we don't split it out.
But I think the key points if you’re looking at the fourth quarter of this year versus fourth quarter of last year would be -- really come down to 4 or 5 points.
One would be the lower QMB sales which is probably -- has an impact in the range of $2 million to $2.5 million in terms of that margin variance between the 2 and that's the way to look at that.
The other one would be higher lower margin international project sales.
And that has probably an impact -- and this is really a shift between the domestic and international piece that probably is somewhere around $1 million of impact.
And the other one would be the ERP implementation which we've already talked about and said it's probably about $1 million in impact in terms of margins.
And the last piece would be the SG&amp;A part of it and that would really get into the adverse tax ruling and some increase in administrative expense for incentive compensation and those would be the big pieces on a quarter-to-quarter.
And those first 3 that I talked about would really be that margin explanation you're looking at the 2 quarters.
Your next question comes from Ryan Connors with Janney Montgomery.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could talk a little more about this issue of mix domestic versus international.
And I guess we were a little taken by surprise by the extent to which that mix had an impact.
So is there any way you can kind of just give us a little more color around what the margin differentials are on kind of domestic versus international pivot sales generally speaking? And then specific to some of these large projects that you call out in your prepared commentary? Well I think the color I would add to it Ryan is as I've said in the past on the international business unit versus the U.S.
shipments is generally a 5 to 7 point margin difference it could be typical.
And that would be because of the level of integration of the factories where in the U.S.
factory we're very vertically integrated where in the international factories we're not.
And those are a matter of scale and timing where we will scale up and have higher levels of integration at some point in time.
That's a piece of it.
The other part of it is in the quarter and we do see this from time to time especially in very good times there will be large projects that will pop up in various regions that will become competitive bid.
And the larger the project the more likely it is competitive bid and sometimes the more difficult that becomes and we saw few of those in the quarter this quarter.
So that had some impact on international margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay now one thing I didn't hear you mention Rick and I may have missed it so I apologize for that.
But I didn't hear you mention input costs or steel or any of that as a margin headwinds.
But was that a factor at all here? I don't think it was.
We did see steel increase in the quarter and it's actually come back a little bit in time.
But we did see some increase but we've been able to pass it through and I would say that really was not a headwind in the quarter.
I haven't viewed really competitive pricing or steel as an impact on the fourth quarter other than as I said for specific international projects.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally just wanted to follow up on this topic you were on with the last caller there on technology.
You mentioned the FieldNET and the GrowSmart system.
Is there any way to quantify I guess number one what percentage of your unit that gets shipped today have one of your advanced technologies included in the sale? And then what that does that margin on a discreet pivot sale? Well I don't have that number specifically both numbers specifically available and I'd prefer not to break those out for competitive purposes.
But it would say that the more important point rather than the margin aspect of it because it really isn't very impactful to the margins on the sale is the differentiation that it offers us and the ability to differentiate against the competition.
So we believe our system is unique in its capabilities and unique in the various plug-and-play opportunities that it provides.
And that therefore then works very well for us particularly with large projects but also with farmers throughout the United States.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one final piece on that.
I know there are other companies focused on sort of "precision ag" was not as focused on irrigation companies like Trimble and so forth.
Is your stuff compatible with some of their devices whether your data can be brought into those user interfaces or if someone has a GrowSmart or FieldNET does that have to operate stand-alone just as an irrigation device? I think today that that is primarily these are stand-alone devices.
There's a lot of potential capability in terms of bring that together but that really hasn't happened.
So they're generally stand-alone devices today.
Your next question comes from Andrew O'Connor with Harris Investment.
Rick I wanted to know and you've already spoken around this but can you further characterize the pricing environment for both irrigation systems and infrastructure products? How pricing compares now to say 6 to 12 months ago and how you guys see it trending looking ahead? Well I think the one way to look at this would be to talk about it in terms of what's happened with pricing in -- pricing on irrigation.
And what we've seen is the irrigation prices in general are probably up about 4% quarter-over-quarter from last year to this.
A year-to-date -- sorry quarter-over-quarter for the whole year probably in the 5% to 6% range.
So not huge price differences and it is all filed driven in terms of what happened in price.
In terms of the competitive environment we've seen it generally -- pretty consistent in terms of a fairly normalized competitive environment without any radical things.
The one area where we do see some things get a little radical particularly in irrigation is in the international market when we get into well like I said the large competitive bids.
Sometimes it gets a little crazy and we walk away from many of them.
And we've had some where we've walked away and somebody a European competitor or whatever won and wasn't able to fulfill the contract also and they come back around again.
So from a comparative standpoint we occasionally draw some pretty clear lines in terms of what we'll doing on a pricing basis.
In the infrastructure market I would say that it's also been pretty stable and pretty normalized in terms of looking at the road safety products in general.
We've been able to pass through increases as necessary and on QMB there's basically as many competition.
However we're also very cautious in terms of pricing in that one because we do compete with other kinds of technology in a sense and we have to look at it in terms of what the benefit is versus standard concrete barrier and those types of things.
I would characterize the competitive environment right now as pretty normal nothing really out of the ordinary.
And you'd maintain that you're looking ahead say the next 6 to 12 months? I do.
I think that there are large projects that take place and this is the one caution in terms of the sales mix and how it can be affected.
As large projects take place in international markets we will see those from time to time be lower margin that we'd like.
But generally speaking I don't really see a change in that in the next 6 to 9 months or a year.
Your next question comes from David Paddock with Invesco.
With the $2.6 million of kind of one-time items that you called out are all of those included in the irrigation segment? Yes.
Well just thinking about that for a second they were all irrigation yes.
So if you add that $2.6 million add it to the $12.2 million...
Just one moment on that I guess Jim Raabe was correcting me.
The majority of it is in irrigation but because the Lindsay plant and that would be some of our manufacturing for the infrastructure there was a small piece of that did get allocated.
That would appear in those margins.
I'm sorry I couldn't hear the last part.
There is a small piece of the ERP implementation in Lindsay that would show up in infrastructure margins because Lindsay does do some manufacturing for our infrastructure business.
Okay.
And so that would imply that your corporate expenses I think would be around $4.9 million for the quarter.
And that's significantly higher than any other quarter in the past and I was wondering what was driving that increase? Well I don't have that number offhand but I do know that the -- I believe the incentive comp that just was made would probably still reside in corporate not as an allocated.
But I'm not...
Yes.
I mean just to clarify the -- in the G&amp;A expenses that are showing up on the P&amp;L the tax ruling shows up in G&amp;A but it is allocated directly to the irrigation segment and the ERP there are some G&amp;A costs that are in corporate as well related to that.
But the total increase in G&amp;A year-over-year basis is about $4 million.
And some of that is salaries and benefits but there's probably about 40% of it related to the item that we spoke to.
Rick commented on it that we haven't released.
Okay.
And moving to the infrastructure segment you seem to be -- I don't think you've had a big QMB project included in sales for a couple of quarters.
But yet your sales seems to be hanging in there in the $25 million to $30 million range per quarter.
It that a pretty good run rate going forward? And then any QMB project will be added into those levels? Well there is some QMB sales that are in most of the quarters and there is some that was in this quarter as well.
Some of them would have been QMB leasing rather than big projects.
So you're right there isn't anything specific in terms of project.
In terms of overall run rate I'd say that's probably not too bad to think of it in those terms.
I don't have a better number but I'm also -- really don't give guidance and can't really project that number for you.
And the last question.
Years ago you did a big internal study on improving in profitability in the infrastructure segment.
I was curious if you could share any of the results from that study.
Well I think there's some significant improvements that are being made in that infrastructure business.
So it wasn't so much a study as it was taking actions to make some change.
And one of the things that I commented on was that we wanted to get to the point where we were seeing good operating margins from that business with or without QMB projects.
And obviously we'd want the QMB projects to really be the icing on the cake in a sense.
And what we've seen in the past quarter and really saw last year is that -- but in the past quarter we saw operating margins of 10.2% for our infrastructure business without much in terms of QMB.
So I'd say in general we're seeing some improvement in the infrastructure business.
We've also in this fiscal year had some restructuring costs to take expenses out and some of those are isolated within that business expense today.
So I am pretty confident that we're going to some good improvements in the infrastructure business in the -- within fiscal '12 and fiscal '13.
Over the low double digit levels you had in recent...
I expect we will see improvements in it over what we have experienced in the past.
We've already seen improvements in most of the pieces of the infrastructure business.
We still have one that we're working through that is a little more problematic for us but we're working through that one now as well.
So I'm confident we will see improvements in all of those pieces.
And just to elaborate on that a little bit.
If you look at sequentially from Q3 to Q4 total revenues and infrastructure are flat actually down a little bit and the segment margins improved from about 4% to 10%.
So we're definitely seeing some improvements there and as Rick alluded to I think -- we think that there's more opportunities going forward.
Right.
In your Q1 and Q2 you're at the 14% to 15% margin levels.
Are those -- were those unusual because of big QMB projects? Yes they had a significant amount of QMB in those.
Your next question comes from James Stillman [ph] with Bearing Asset Management.
It's really to do with uses of cash flow whether you're sort of considering share buybacks the stock at these levels or what you intend to do with your cash essentially? Well we do consider a share buyback.
We certainly take into consideration at any point in time.
Our primary defined uses for cash would be our organic growth opportunity and if we see a good synergistic acquisitions to add to the business.
But we obviously do watch -- we have had an outstanding and do have an outstanding share repurchase authorization.
So it is a consideration that would be made at any time.
[Operator Instructions] You do have an additional question from Schon Williams with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Could you just remind me how much of that infrastructure business is related to Europe? And then maybe just some of your thoughts on given where the amount of austerity that we're seeing in Europe in some of the macro headwinds do you still think you can grow that side of the business within your next year? Yes I don't recall the percentage offhand Schon on the Europe percent of that.
I'm sorry I can't help you with that.
That's probably something we could find and Jim is looking.
But I do have concern about the European market in terms of how that will grow.
Our primary sales in Europe has been in Italy and Germany and few other markets.
But primarily in those 2.
And Germany still remains very strong.
Italy I think is problematic in the short term from a cash flow standpoint.
And just -- that number is about 30% at least in the current quarter and that can change depending on what happens with QMB obviously because we have some projects at that as well.
Research Division</strong> Is that -- is Europe the biggest piece of the international mix for infrastructure? Yes it is at this time but does not change as we add QMB projects in -- international QMB projects.
For example as you may recall back about a year ago we had a Mexico City project I think it was a $200 million project.
So that will change based on the QMB project that are pending at the time.
At this time there are no additional questions.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Parod for any closing remarks.
Before our business overall the global one-term drivers of water conservation population growth increase the importance of biofuels and the need for safer more efficient transportation solutions remain positive.
In addition to the overall business enhancements that are taking place we continue to have ongoing structured acquisition process that will generate additional growth opportunities throughout the world in water and infrastructure.
Lindsay is committed to achieving earnings growth through global market expansion improvements in margins and strategic acquisitions.
I'd like to thank you for your call -- for your participation and questions on this call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's Lindsay's confrontation Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is David and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which reflect management’s current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Joining me on today's call are Jim Raabe Lindsay Corporation's Chief Financial Officer; and Lori Zarkowski our Chief Accounting Officer.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2012 we continued to experience growth in irrigation equipment demand in both domestic and international markets.
We leveraged those sales gains into increased cash flows and higher margins from operations.
The margin gains were offset by an accrual in the quarter of $7.2 million or $0.37 per diluted share and expenses that we expect will be incurred in future years for environmental remediation at our Lindsay Nebraska facility.
Consolidated revenues for the quarter were a record $119 million increasing 34% from $89 million in the same quarter last year.
Net earnings were $2.9 million or $0.23 per diluted share compared with $4.3 million or $0.34 per diluted share in the prior year's first quarter.
Excluding the environmental accrual net earnings were $7.7 million or $0.60 per diluted share.
I intend on devoting the majority of my comments to the underlying performance of our business excluding the impact of the environmental accrual.
Before doing so let me spend a few minutes on the situation with our environmental liability.
In 1992 the company entered into a consent decree with the EPA specifying monitoring and remediation actions regarding contamination that occurred in the '80s.
Since that time we have worked with Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality and the EPA including numerous 5-year reviews and adjustments to the monitoring and remediation actions.
We have accrued expenses over the years based on the discussions with the EPA and the plans developed from the 5-year reviews.
As a result of the most recent review we've been discussing potential actions that could result in more permanent remediation solutions on the site.
Based on preliminary findings of our environmental advisors we determined in recent days that it was appropriate to accrue $7.2 million of expense that we expect will be incurred over the next 5 to 10 years in remediation activity in accordance with appropriate accounting treatment.
The accrual is based on preliminary findings and plans which have not yet been finalized nor have the specifics of the action plan been agreed to by the EPA or Lindsay.
So this estimate is subject to change.
I'm confident that the expenses required to address this environmental obligation will not materially impact the company's liquidity or financial resources or long-term trajectory for our growth nor will this expense impact the extent to which we invest in growth for the advancement of our competitive position.
Now I'd like to move on to discuss the underlying performance of our business in the quarter as noted exclusive of the $7.2 million in environmental expense.
Global irrigation sales grew 68% to $101 million in the quarter with segment operating margins exclusive the environmental remediation expenses of 15.6%.
U.S.
irrigation revenues totaled $60.7 million for the first quarter increasing 66% over the same period last year.
Commodity prices remained relatively high through most of the quarter and continue to support positive farmer sentiment.
Projections of record U.S.
farm income throughout 2011 along with Section 179 accelerated depreciation and write-off of equipment purchases continue to support positive economic conditions for U.S.
farmers.
In the international irrigation market revenues increased 71% to $40.1 million a record for the first quarter.
We have seen solid revenue increases in nearly all international markets with the most significant year-over-year gains in the Middle East South America and China.
Long-term market drivers of improving diets and growing worldwide population combined with water use efficiencies available for mechanized irrigation systems continue to be positive drivers for global irrigation equipment demand.
Infrastructure segment revenues were $18.4 million decreasing 37% from the first quarter of last year due to lower QMB system sales.
Importantly we have made significant progress in our other infrastructure product lines as our non-QMB infrastructure sales grew by 7% over the year-ago quarter despite a difficult environment for funding highway and other infrastructure projects.
Yet we are confident in the opportunity to drive significant profitability with QMB system sales over the long term as a superior solution to worldwide traffic congestion and improvement in driver and highway worker safety.
QMB sales are likely to continue at some level of volatility due to the project nature of this business and the current funding environment.
For the irrigation and infrastructure segments combined gross profit increased to $30.2 million for the first quarter versus $24.2 million in the same quarter last year.
Gross margins were 25.4% compared to 27.2% in the first quarter last year.
The lower gross margin was primarily due to the lower revenues of higher-margin QMB systems accounting for 2.5 percentage points of the year-over-year margin difference in the quarter.
Both irrigation and non-QMB infrastructure gross margins improved as compared to the prior-year period due to expense leveraging and productivity gains.
Last quarter we discussed challenges associated with our European implementation.
While there remain opportunities to improve our productivity and better utilize this new tool a significant amount of inefficiencies have been eliminated.
We look forward to further improvements in future quarters.
Operating expenses for the first quarter increased by $1 million to $17.9 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 exclusive of the environmental accrual.
The increase in operating expenses is attributable to inclusion of newly acquired businesses.
Operating margin excluding environmental liabilities increased to 10.3% from 8.2% last year driven by the higher revenues.
Our sales remain strong through the quarter and our order backlog at the end of the quarter was $52.8 million on November 30 2011 compared to $46 million on August 31 2011 and $59.7 million November 30 2010.
Our first quarter is typically a low quarter for the irrigation segment and the backlog at the end of any quarter is not indicative of future demand.
From a balance sheet perspective our position remains strong with cash and cash equivalents of $108.7 million $28.2 million higher than the same time last year while debt decreased $4.3 million over the same period.
Accounts receivable were $16.7 million higher year-over-year reflecting our higher sale volumes and inventories increased $4.5 million while inventory turns improved.
Our primary use of cash remains investing in organic growth opportunities dividends and continuing to seek accretive acquisitions that add new businesses and/or product lines.
In summary strong global irrigation performance and solid results from our infrastructure segment were realized in the quarter.
Through the balance of fiscal year 2012 we will continue to execute on a strategic plan containing additional technology investments and organic growth initiatives and an operating plan featuring more lean manufacturing initiatives and fewer ERP system inefficiencies.
We believe these plans position us well against the backdrop of continued global economic uncertainty.
Furthermore we are confident that the key drivers to our business are favorable and that over the long term increasing agricultural yields to boost food supply improving water use efficiency expanding biofuel production and improving transportation infrastructure will remain global priorities.
I would now like to open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Cox with Piper.
Research Division</strong> My first question is you had noted that the backlog is not a good indication.
But I guess I'd be curious as you look at the progression the order activity through the course of the quarter and I guess by comparison to some of the commentary we've heard from the farm machinery companies talking about a very robust pipeline for 2012 is this kind of just in the backlog just a function of the recent decline we've seen in grain prices? Or is there something more to this that we should consider? I think if you were to -- if we can analyze this backlog a little bit for you Mike it would be the primary decrease in the backlog from the same time last year was more in the infrastructure product line and primarily in the QMB backlog.
In the first quarter of last year we had a significant project that we were taking on an East Coast bridge project that we talked about I believe it was about $15 million of which $8 million of it was in the first quarter and the rest of it was in backlog for the second quarter.
So the primary difference in the backlog is really in the infrastructure business.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And as I look at selling expenses in the quarter with the 34% revenue increase and selling expenses were flat essentially year-over-year can you talk about the ability to maintain that selling expense number? What was done in the course of the quarter that was allowed to -- allowed you to keep that number flat in spite of the big sales increase? I mean our selling expense in general is not very variable.
It tends to be more fixed.
It does at times ramp up in more of a step level based on what's happening in terms of advertising activities or other promotional activities but it tends to be more of a fixed expense.
There are some exceptions.
It is a little more variable in the infrastructure part of our business than in the irrigation part.
But I wouldn't expect it to ramp up in a quarter like this with the increase in volume.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay that's great.
And my last question is on the strength of the balance sheet and the cash you have on hand.
We've started to see I guess a couple of acquisitions in the farm equipment safety here just recently.
Could you speak to the opportunities that might be out there from an acquisition standpoint? Or is that an area that we should look for in fiscal 2012 as a potential use of cash? Well it certainly is an emphasis of ours to define strategic acquisitions that fit with our business.
I think there's -- we found in recent looks that there's many attractive pieces out there different areas where we can find some businesses that make sense.
At the same time the M&amp;A market is competitive in some sense and I think we've seen some high prices on some of the deals that were done.
And we're pretty prudent and cautious in many respects but we'll be careful in terms of what we walk into in that area.
But I would expect that that will continue to be an emphasis: to find strategic acquisitions.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Connors with Janney Montgomery.
Research Division</strong> First off just a question on the irrigation side.
I mean really remarkable results for this seasonally slow part of the year.
If I'm not mistaken it's the first time that segment's ever done $100 million in revenue in that November quarter.
And so you also mentioned in your commentary this issue of a depreciation benefit in terms of that being a driver.
I mean to what extent do you think just in terms of a short-term basis here that that's having an impact on the order flow and the top line? Well the reference was to the Section 179 accelerated depreciation and write-off on equipment.
It's difficult to determine how much that really drives it but I'll make a reference Ryan to something we talked about in the past which is the percentage of our equipment that will go out into dry land or replacement conversion.
And as I've said what we've typically seen is that that wouldn't be unusual to see about 1/3 1/3 1/3 in terms of the split between those 3 categories.
And what we usually see in periods with higher commodity prices is that dry land will be the highest percentage.
And in this past quarter we saw that dry land was about 30% -- 39% rather of the shipments out.
So that was about what we would expect.
The other one that was a little higher than maybe I would've expected is the replacement which may be somewhat driven by the Section 179.
That was around 34% to 35%.
So I don't think it was a huge driver in this past quarter.
Our salespeople and dealers have said that it's more likely to have an impact in the next quarter -- or in the current quarter we're in rather the second quarter.
And I'm not sure that that will be a significant impact either but it's more likely that we'll see more of the Section 179 impact in this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And just my second question I mean I respect the fact that you prefer to talk about the base business but obviously the remediation issues -- I think the magnitude of the charge kind of caught people off guard certainly us.
So just 2 questions there.
Is there any way you can characterize exactly what the reserve is for? In other words is it the wells you're drilling for aeration or whatnot? And then number 2 you said it's subject to change but would you characterize the reserve as being a conservative one in other words that -- in other words you reserve pretty aggressively against it and we shouldn't see further reserves in the future? Or can it change either direction? Yes Jim? Go ahead Jim.
This is Jim.
First of all I'd say that what we've done is we've made the estimate based on the best estimate that we can make at this point.
The nature of the remediation is around things on the site -- on the facility site and so it is wells and that type of thing.
Although that's still some analysis being done and the specifics still being developed.
With regard to the estimate and future changes to the estimate this is based on some preliminary work that we've done.
We do still need to work through that with the EPA and get their agreement with the path that we would end up proposing.
And then always -- there is always the possibility that you learn as you go on these things and there could be changes as a result of that.
So there certainly could be changes from this point forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last one on that.
So I assume given the ramped-up level activity around that that you've engaged consultants and so forth.
Are expenses related to that flowing through SG&amp;A? Or are those going into this reserve as well? Expenses related to that would go against the reserve.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Shoop with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First question is about gross margin.
Can you talk about some of the levers impacting gross margin on a quarter-to-quarter basis the August and November quarters specifically? Can you comment on how much is that benefit that you saw from the ERP implementation and consulting fees? And then also what kind of impact you -- that the pricing environment had in the quarter? Well I think Carter it's difficult to split out specifically some of the levers that you're referring to.
I would say that we did see efficiency improvement in this quarter versus the previous quarter and that certainly it had quite a role in 2 areas.
One is that it caused some of the inefficiencies or variances to be reduced and that had some amount of savings and the other is it allowed us to get more volume out in the quarter where in the previous quarter we would have more difficulty just because of the conversion to the new system.
So that was certainly key to handling the volume activity we had.
The other factor that can often play -- that does play a role in the margins would be what's happening with steel pricing.
And what we saw happen this past quarter steel prices had moved up about 20% from where they were the same time last year.
And we're seeing a steel environment right now that is getting a little cost.
So we're seeing steel pricing move up.
We have been able to generally pass that through and we basically had about a 3% to 3.5% price increase through the quarter and year-over-year I think about 13% increase in price.
And most of that is passing through the steel prices.
We haven't really seen much change in the competitive environment from a margin standpoint.
So say competitively everything is pretty stable but it's a constant battle when you're passing through things like steel increases.
And we all of course have different impact in terms of our steel purchases at different points in time.
Those are probably the primary levers along with the volume itself that allowed us to leverage our fixed expenses in our factory.
Research Division</strong> And just to clarify in the fourth quarter you talked about $1 million in factory inefficiencies.
Can you think of that number being cut in half last quarter? Or is that -- is there still ancillary efficiencies of that magnitude? I would think about it as approximately half.
And that is a rough number because there are number of variables.
But I think about it as approximately cut in half.
Research Division</strong> That is helpful.
Can you talk about the QMB section a little bit here in regards to what the outlook is for that business? Obviously it's a little bit longer in lead time than your irrigation or other infrastructure business.
Can you comment and maybe qualify the backlog there and how that backlog has looked thus far in the February quarter? I think I would qualify -- or probably quantify it more from the standpoint of: there really hasn't been much change from previous quarters when we talk about the project list that we look at and the potential projects that are out there that we're tracking and working.
They really don't convert to backlog until they become an actual order and not much has really changed in that area.
I will say we've got a good opportunity identification process where we're identifying new ones to go onto that list all the time in different markets.
So I'm optimistic about that.
Nothing really has changed in my perspective on that.
I think it still looks pretty good.
It may be a little tight towards the end of this year just because we're not sure what's happening with funding yet.
And I mean end of the fiscal year in 2012.
We're not sure what's happening with government funding on projects.
But at this point I'm still very optimistic about QMB for the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Drab with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> First how much confidence do you have that the $7-million investment in remediation will clear you of this issue? Well as I said we've made best estimates that we have based on the information that we have and we've tried to vet that but there are always uncertainties as we go forward.
Now this is a multi-year accrual.
So I would guess that there will be circumstances that could change over that time but those could affect the accrual in either direction.
But for now we've made the best estimate we can.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess said another way that $7-million investment the idea is that the work plan driven by that $7 million would take care of the issue and it's not just Phase 1 of several phases.
Is that correct? There could be some additional work that needs to be done after this is completed but we need to go through this piece of the work to make further determination.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Looking at the infrastructure side of the business.
Can you give us any sense for how much of the revenue came from QMB sales in the quarter? And I'm sure you won't quantify it but can you tell us if it was less than 10% or less than 5%? Somehow give us an idea of what the impact was.
I don't have that number on hand.
I could possibly get that in a minute but I believe it was pretty low in the quarter.
Let's see; it was probably somewhere around based on what I do have about 1/3 of what it would've been at the same time last year.
And I don't have a specific percentage for you on that.
Yes I'll follow up with you.
Research Division</strong> So QMB your guess though right now Rick it's 1/3 of the level of sales that you had in QMB last year in this quarter.
Yes.
That is about right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess this has already been asked but it's just very surprising that in the seasonally weak quarter for irrigation you have that pretty substantial increase sequentially from the previous quarter and -- in the domestic market.
And I guess what would be the #1 thing coming up -- I don't know if it's clear to me yet.
What would be the #1 thing that you'd point to that's driving that? Is it farmer sentiment? Or is it combination of that with the bonus depreciation? I would point to farmer sentiment.
And I was talking to dealers both in the U.S.
and internationally.
I would say that the one primary driver and comment has been farmer sentiment has been pretty positive.
Farmers have come off from a good year with excellent farm income.
Their balance sheets are in good position and if you look at some of the press recently they've been buying land even at some pretty high prices but a lot of the land purchases are with cash.
So farmers are in pretty good shape and optimistic about the future and I think they're also looking at the longer-term perspective even though they tend be pretty short term in some of the purchase decisions.
And looking at the long-term and seeing that the demand for the commodities that they're producing is pretty robust long-term.
There's a good outlook there so they're willing to make these investments.
So I think it's been a pretty positive environment from a farmer sentiment standpoint.
Your next question comes from line of Schon Williams with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to make sure that I'm absolutely clear on the environmental charge.
Jim mentioned that this is a multi-year accrual.
I just want to make sure this is the full accrual for the next 5 to 10 years of what you expect to spend.
Is that correct? Yes that is accrual for what we expect to spend.
As I said we still have discussions with the EPA to finalize and to agree to this specific path and as I said there are also things that could come out of the future work that could result in a revision to that.
But this is an accrual that would cover 5 to 10 years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the infrastructure side of business.
It looks like -- if I kind of adjust for the environmental remediation it looks like in the base business it's still fairly weak there.
I mean when would you guys anticipate -- given some of the restructuring effort you've done there I mean when would you anticipate that base business kind of ex-QMB to move into the profitable realm? Well what I would point to on this is some of the improvements that's taken place and I guess the reference point would be what we saw in this quarter for the non-QMB business is the revenue was up over 6%.
And we saw gross margin improvements in the range of over 3% in the quarter.
And when we look at the operating margin or operating income of this business as you said when you back out the EPA portion it basically was breakeven for the quarter on roughly an $18-million revenue number.
And if we were to look at a comparable quarter and I think going back to the last year Jim you had mentioned I think second or third quarter of last year.
Of 2010.
Of 2010 rather $18-million comparable revenue quarter that business would have lost about $1 million.
So from that standpoint there's a significant improvement that has taken place in the business as it is.
And also when you look at the revenue from past -- last year for the total infrastructure business has been $109 million.
This quarter revenue in the $18-million range is pretty low.
So to be break-even at this level I'm not concerned and I see very significant improvements that's taken place from the same time in 2010.
Research Division</strong> And should we be seeing I guess a further ramp? Are there additional savings that are kind of ramping up over the next couple of quarters? I mean even if volumes were to stay at the kind of existing levels should I see that margin level actually improve? What you should see is continual emphasis to improve those margins and those margins -- the emphasis on improving those margins will be in product cost reduction manufacturing efficiencies selling price management and the other part of it that is a definite emphasis in this is increasing our revenue in our safety products outside of the QMB -- and not that we're not trying increase revenue in QMB but to the other product lines increasing revenue to see more leveraging of costs in other periods.
So you should see revenue increases plus margin improvement.
Your next question comes from the line of David Rose with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping we can follow up a little bit more on the international sales and provide a little bit more color on how lumpy the order book is.
And last quarter you talked about lumpiness in the business.
And then secondly if there's some color on margins.
Again internationally the guidance was margins were going to be weaker.
Are there initiatives to improve margins? And then lastly on the international irrigation sales -- these are all irrigation sales questions but the last one is as it relates to the competitive environment could you provide a little bit more color on perhaps the technology component of the sales or other initiatives that you need to do to be competitive internationally? Okay.
Well I think from the international market perspective it's -- we've seen some pretty robust market positions in the last quarter in most all of the markets we're participating in and I mentioned a few specifically where we saw good opportunities and good growth in Middle East China and South America.
At most all of the international markets were up year-over-year for the quarter from the previous year.
So we did see a good demand out there.
And a lot of that demand is being driven by the strong fundamentals of the population growth and the need for food security and overall agriculture prices certainly played a role in it.
But we're pretty pleased with the growth that we're seeing there.
Now when you refer to it as an order book it's a little more difficult because we tend to flow through orders pretty quickly.
So we don't have big backlog order books necessarily on irrigation products but they'll flow through relatively quickly.
We have not seen a significant drop-off or change in demand and I'm optimistic about the future.
I also think there's some excellent still developing markets that offer good growth potential for example Russia and Ukraine.
We think that we'll see good future there but they will take some time yet to develop and there will be in time some government subsidies that will help those markets develop.
We're also seeing some strong fundamentals in market demand in northern Africa where there are some projects that are taking place that are primarily driven again by food security needs from other countries moving into that region.
So from an international standpoint it will continue to be a pretty good but we're also going to see that because it is project-oriented that will have some impact on margins from time to time because they will be competitive.
We do see the strong order flow in general but also as I said we will see projects.
And we had one of those in this past quarter not very significant size but a project that took place in the Middle East region.
And those are -- as I said tend to get a little more difficult in terms of the competitive bid situation.
Coming back to the competitive environment in general I would say that we haven't really seen much change in competitive environment but we are emphasizing our differences the Lindsay advantage in everything we do from a marketing standpoint and that includes the strength the durability ruggedness of our equipment as well as the technology and what we offer with our FieldNET product line that we think is pretty unique.
We're going to continue to add on features to the FieldNET product line into that offering to further differentiate our product line and to further differentiate our competitive position.
It doesn't play a huge role in terms of price in the sense of people buying more technology or play a huge role in the sense of commanding much larger price because of it but it is an important differentiator and I think there are still more opportunities there for us as well.
And I think that hits the majority of your question.
I'm not sure if I missed any one aspect of it.
Your next question comes from line of Andrew O'Connor [ph] with Harris Investments [ph].
Rick Jim I wanted to know on capital expenditures what you guys expect to spend for fiscal 2012.
And in what areas will the expenditures be made from the business? Our estimate for the capital expenditures for '12 is about $9 million to $11 million.
Some of it in productivity some of it in price development tooling those types of things.
Okay.
Can we apportion between the 2 segments irrigation and infrastructure between the $9 million to $11 million? We don't specifically apportion that but I would say that you could expect the majority of it will be irrigation and the majority of it will be more manufacturing related in terms of equipment versus product.
Okay.
And then I'm just kind of wondering out loud.
Is it possible or are you guys actively investigating the utilization of your QMB technology perhaps in other directions? Or with some modifications is this system applicable for other uses? And having asked this I don't know what that would be but I'd be curious to get your thoughts.
Well I'd answer that in saying yes it is applicable in other uses and other kinds of environments other than the ones that we've sold it in.
I wouldn't want to go too far in terms of describing those for competitive purposes but I would say it is an emphasis to enter into some new market segments with the QMB-type technology.
We believe there are some opportunities in areas where we haven't really been able to penetrate a market because of either weight or size of the equipment and there's some opportunities just thinking about this a little differently.
So you're at liberty at the moment to maybe characterize what some of these other uses are.
No I would rather not do that at this point.
I think there will be a time in the future when we can talk about that.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Beach with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Rick and Jim would you discuss the trends and outlook in your non-QMB infrastructure operations the road safety rail structure contract manufacturing? Yes I think the -- we're particularly pleased with the outlook I think from a -- in the road -- sorry the railroad market segment.
We think that there's a lot of opportunity there.
And we have developed relationships with many of the larger railroads and we will continue to expand our market position in that area.
We think the rail structures area is a good growth opportunity for us in the next few years.
The diversified manufacturing or contract manufacturing part has been a key piece of our business in terms of overhead absorption and really absorbing overhead with lower-margin contract manufacturing type business.
And I think we'll continue to have that and support the customers that we have but it is becoming somewhat deemphasized from the standpoint of other proprietary product that is taking some of that utilization of the equipment and space as well.
The road safety product is a good market and will be a good market in the long term.
I do think it's a tough environment in terms of road safety products today especially considering that we don't really have a U.S.
multi-year highway bill.
What we have today is the short-term extensions on the existing bill.
I think the current one is extended out until March.
So we really need a multi-year highway bill that creates a better opportunity for expansion of infrastructure and that will definitely benefit our highway -- or road safety product line.
Also outside the United States I'd say that we see opportunities in developing markets with our road safety products but it is still difficult in some markets due to government funding situation.
So we're pretty optimistic about that for the long term.
We think it will be a great business to be in.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And as a follow up regarding some of these operations and probably QMB as well is are you getting a lot of your benefits of the ERP system in these -- broadly across these infrastructure operations of yours? I think it's too soon to get much of the benefit across the operations.
I will say we've finally gotten to the point where all of our operations are on the same ERP system which will be beneficial to all of the operations and we're in the early stages of that now that we've gotten -- we're having everything over -- converted over in this last quarter the fourth quarter of last year.
So I think we will see those benefits come over the next few quarters.
We expect to continue to reap the benefits throughout this year.
[Operator Instructions] You have a follow-up question from the line of Brian Drab with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up -- 2 quick follow-ups.
On the irrigation side what's your expense Rick? And I don't know if you would be able to really answer this completely but do you think that it's going be difficult to have irrigation revenue up in fiscal 2012 after such a strong year in 2011 arguably with some benefits from the bonus depreciation? I think you'll probably not be surprised to hear me say it's too soon to tell.
As you know this is really the slow part of the season and what I'm always interested in is what's really happening with commodity prices and the markets in general and farmer sentiment in that February March time period when the U.S.
market really starts to turn back on.
And I think it's just too soon to tell at this point to make a call for us one way or the other at this stage.
I would say that the fundamentals have been very positive and supportive of strong demand for 2012 in terms of commodity prices and farmer sentiments and the longer-term perspective from population growth and food security and all the other aspects.
But it all comes down a little bit to what happens in that February March time period as we approach spring to see what farmer sentiment will be.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then on the bonus appreciation issue I think that I might not understand this completely but I have been told that the farmer doesn't get the benefit of the bonus depreciation unless the system -- irrigation system is purchased installed and commissioned and he doesn't get the bonus depreciation just when he buys it from the dealer.
So I'm wondering is that true? And if so is it unlikely that any revenue that you'd record with the purchase of an irrigation system say in December would actually be driven by someone who thinks that they're going to get bonus depreciation because if they're not going to have it commissioned -- installed and commissioned for maybe a month or 2 after that? Well I would say I've heard the same thing.
I don't know for a fact whether that's the case.
I will say that somebody ordering a system and having it delivered and getting it installed in December is still very possible.
So I wouldn't rule that out in terms of being able to comply us with the accelerated depreciation Section 179 benefits that are available.
You have a follow-up question from the line of Schon Williams with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up.
I wanted to see if you could maybe comment on what your lead times are currently on the irrigation.
And it sounds like just with that last response I guess you think it's less than 4 weeks if a dealer can make that in order at the beginning of December and still get it to the customer by the end of the month.
Could you talk about where you think lead times are as we move into the new year? And maybe where those -- if you have any sense of where those lead times are versus your competitors? Well typically we schedule our irrigation production based on a forecast and to some extent a national production schedule but generally from this forecast.
And as long as the orders are within the forecasted range the lead time is relatively short and could be 2 to 3 weeks.
So it's really not going to be very long.
So in some cases it can be even going to be less if somebody has a specific need and we're accelerating an order through.
Once we get beyond that forecasted level then it becomes a little more difficult and the lead times may move out to 6 or 8 weeks.
But generally we've been forecasting and being able to hold within that to some extent.
So I would say that it's probably still in the 2- to 4-week range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you did comment on some of the opportunities that you see on the railroad structures business.
I know that the Obama administration had struck down some of the I guess -- failed to implement some of the safety regulations around signage that could possibly would've benefited that business.
Is there any update on maybe the legislative side on where some of that safety regulation is heading -- is going in the near future? No I don't really have any update on this -- that at this point.
What we've found is most of our customers who have been working on the positive train control requirements the PTC requirements that were involved in the legislation have continued to work towards implementing positive train control and PTC.
So I think that that really hasn't stopped anything yet.
I do believe that there could be some delays in it but at this point we really haven't seen much change.
There are no further questions.
Mr.
Parod do you have any closing remarks? Yes.
For our business overall the global long-term drivers of water conservation population growth; food security; the increasing importance of biofuels; and the need for safer more efficient transportation solutions remain positive.
In addition to the overall business enhancements that have taken place we continue to have an ongoing structured acquisition process that will generate additional growth opportunities throughout the world in water and infrastructure.
Lindsay is committed to achieving earnings growth through global market expansion improvements in margins and strategic acquisitions.
We thank you for your questions and participation in this call and we wish you and your families happy holidays.
Thank you.
This concludes today's Lindsay Corporation First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation Q2 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties and which reflect management’s current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Joining me on today's call are Jim Raabe Lindsay Corporation's Chief Financial Officer; and Lori Zarkowski our Chief Accounting Officer.
Revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 were $132.1 million increasing 10% over the same quarter last year.
During the quarter we continue to achieve global growth in irrigation equipment revenues over the same period last year.
However some of that growth was offset by significantly lower infrastructure revenues primarily due to lower QMB project sales.
Net earnings were $12.8 million or $1 per diluted share in the quarter compared with $11.3 million or $0.89 per diluted share in the prior year second quarter.
Operating margins increased slightly to 14.3% from 14.2% last year.
Total revenues for the first 6 months of fiscal 2012 were $251.3 million increasing 20% from the same period last year.
Net earnings for the first 6 months were $15.7 million or $1.23 per diluted share approximately equal to the first half of fiscal 2011.
However the first half of fiscal 2012 includes a $7.2 million accrual for environmental remediation at our Lindsay Nebraska facility recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
Excluding the environmental accrual operating margin improved to 12.4% for the first half of the fiscal year compared to 11.6% in the previous year.
And net earnings increased to $1.60 compared to $1.27 per diluted share for the same period last year.
In U.S.
irrigation market revenues were $82.9 million for the second quarter increasing 25% over the same period last year.
In the international irrigation market revenues increased 36% to $34.1 million.
Revenues increased in nearly all of U.S.
and international regions with the most notable international growth in the Middle East Canada Europe and Latin America.
For the first 6 months of fiscal 2012 U.S.
irrigation revenues were $143.5 million increasing 39% over the first half of last year.
We are now in the midst of our primary irrigation selling season in the Northern Hemisphere and quote and order activities are significantly more robust than the same time last year.
In the international markets revenues were $74.2 million for the first 6 months of fiscal 2012 increasing 53% over the first half of last year.
Commodity prices continue to support improved irrigation equipment demand.
The USDA projects the U.S.
2012 net farm income to be the second-highest on record only slightly less than 2011 and 28% higher than the 10-year average continuing to create positive economic conditions for U.S.
farmers.
The global long-term market drivers of improving diets and a growing population combined with water use efficiencies available for mechanized irrigation systems continue to be positive drivers for irrigation equipment demand.
Infrastructure segment revenues decreased 47% to $15.1 million in the quarter due primarily to lower QMB system sales.
Infrastructure revenues excluding QMB system sales decreased 4% from the second quarter of last year reflecting flat revenue from the road safety products and lower revenues in railroad signaling structures.
QMB system sales were more than 85% lower in the quarter than the same quarter last year due to a sizable project in the comparable period last year and delays in anticipated projects this fiscal year.
The project delays are due to funding and nonfunding-related issues but the delays have not significantly changed our perspective on the likelihood of specific projects or the future demand for QMB systems.
Long-term global interest remained strong in QMB as a superior solution to worldwide traffic congestion and improvement in driver and highway worker safety.
QMB sales are likely to continue to be volatile due to the project nature of the business.
Year-to-date at the end of the second quarter infrastructure revenues were $33.6 million 42% lower than the first half of last year.
Excluding the lower QMB system sales infrastructure revenues increased slightly over the first half of last year.
As we discussed in previous calls our infrastructure management team remains focused on improving the growth and profitability of the business through expanded sales and marketing actions product cost reductions and converting fixed expenses to variable where possible.
While progress has been made there is still more improvement planned.
Gross profit was $36.5 million for the second quarter versus $34 million in the same quarter of last year.
Gross margins were 27.6% compared to 28.3% for the second quarter of last year primarily due to lower revenues of higher-margin QMB system sales.
Irrigation gross margins improved by more than 2 percentage points from the same quarter of last year as a result of cost leveraging and productivity gains.
Operating expenses for the second quarter increased by $600 000 to $17.5 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2012.
The increased operating expenses were primarily from the inclusion of an acquired business and personnel-related expenses.
Total operating expenses as a percent of sales improved to 13.3% for the quarter compared to 14.1% for the same period last year.
Our order backlog was $87.3 million on February 29 2012 as compared to $52.8 million on November 30 2011 and $64.3 million on February 28 2011.
The irrigation backlog is more than 50% higher than the same time last year and historically is the second-highest quarter-end backlog second only to the same period in fiscal 2008.
The infrastructure backlog was lower at the end of the quarter versus the same time last year.
Cash and cash equivalents were $26.5 million higher at the end of the quarter versus the same time last year while debt decreased $4.3 million and $4.9 million of acquisitions were completed.
Accounts receivable were $2.4 million higher year-over-year due to the higher sales while days sales outstanding improved.
Inventories increased $13.7 million in support of the peak selling season and inventory turns improved.
Our primary uses of cash remain investing in organic growth opportunities while continuing to seek accretive acquisitions that add businesses and/or product lines.
In summary we are pleased with the continued robust irrigation equipment demand realized during the past quarter and in the current season for the Northern Hemisphere.
The global economic conditions for farmers remained positive supporting continued irrigation equipment demand.
In the infrastructure segment we continue to experience revenue and profit volatility due to the project nature of our QMB product line and the fixed nature of some SG&amp;A expenses.
Predicting timing on QMB projects is likely to remain a challenge but we remain positive regarding the business.
The business has provided good returns to shareholders since acquired and I'm confident that it will continue to provide good returns.
I would now like to open it up for your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Schon Williams of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Aaron Reeves sitting in for Schon this morning.
I just had a few questions on the quarter.
I guess my first question just goes back to the irrigation segment.
We were noticing as we went through the numbers that it looks like incremental margins maybe accelerated in Q2 versus Q1.
And I guess my question is if you could just maybe help provide some color onto what extent pricing and volume? And maybe did you see any raw materials released in the quarter? What actually drove that acceleration in incremental margins sequentially? Yes.
Well I think the first point is that in terms of selling prices on irrigation pricing was up about 3% in the quarter and about 6% year-over-year.
So there's not a significant change from a pricing standpoint.
And I would say that from a competitive environment standpoint it's been I'd say comparatively stable in terms of -- the competition has been somewhat pretty typical in terms of what we see.
So nothing really unusual from that standpoint.
Steel pricing has moved up about 15% from the same time last year but we're not really seeing a steel impact in the quarter in the sense that we've been able to pass through steel cost increases for the most part.
I think most of the margin improvement that we've seen has really been from cost leveraging due to the incremental volumes plus productivity gains in our factory.
As you recall we had an ERP conversion back a couple of quarters ago that did cause some deterioration in productivity and we've been able to regain most of that if not all of it in the last couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
I have another question too in this business also in irrigation but it looks internationally.
We noticed that demand seemed to be down versus Q1.
I guess my question there is whether or not you think -- is that something that we should be concerned about like weaker overseas growth? Is this something that you see that's going to persist? Or how would you explain weaker international demand? I wouldn't read too much into that.
Some of it is project oriented when we look at our international revenues and we did have a larger project in the first quarter.
So I wouldn't read anything into that.
I think that we're seeing a strong demand in all of the international markets and we're really getting into the peak of the selling season for Northern Hemisphere market.
So I think that we will see a little more let's say volatility to some degree a little more fluctuation in the international markets because of the size and -- of the individual market.
But I wouldn't read more into it than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just wanted to touch on the infrastructure side for a moment.
Could you give us a sense of what level of sales you're seeing on the QMB side? I'm just really focused on the project sales.
So if you could maybe give me a sense of where you are with that and maybe where your backlog stands with QMB.
Well the backlog first of all is relatively growing in the infrastructure business.
And we don't really have a significant project QMB project in backlog and infrastructure at this time.
Where you'll see our backlog spike up on infrastructures  is when we do have the QMB projects because they're typically pretty sizable.
We're still seeing very strong interest in the projects and our overall project list that we track is still pretty robust and not that unusual from -- or different than what we've seen in the past.
I think what we're seeing in the past couple of quarters and primarily in the last few months is some projects slipping out on timing.
And as it is a project-based business it does make a difference when you see a pretty sizable project that we expect will happen say in the second quarter and all of a sudden it slides out and becomes indefinite.
We're really not clear when that's going to happen whether it will be in the next quarter or the quarter after.
And that's really what we're seeing.
And as I mentioned some of these are funding but many are nonfunding related meaning it could be related to road construction project that hasn't been completed in order to accommodate the QMB or some other -- or negotiations that are taking place for the contractor and the city or state.
So there's a number of other factors that could come into play but it is project oriented so we will see it'd be fairly lumpy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And one final question.
I'll jump back in the queue.
Can you just sort of tell us what you're seeing from an M&amp;A standpoint just if there's anything in the pipeline anything look attractive right now sort of what your expectations are for M&amp;A over the next couple of quarters? Well we're certainly very active from an M&amp;A standpoint in terms of we've got a very active list and we're tracking a number of different companies and a couple of different sectors that we think could be synergistic and fits with us.
So we're going to stay very active in this because we think there are some good opportunities for growth that will provide good returns to shareholders.
So I would expect that you should see us still continue be very active.
I would add that during the past we've had a number of small acquisitions that were primarily adding some capabilities or technologies to the business.
That's not our current focus.
We're focusing on larger-sized acquisitions probably in the $50 million revenue and up at this time.
So I think when we do make acquisitions we should expect they would be in that size.
It doesn't mean that we would not make a small one if the opportunity came up that we found a significant fit in some way but that's not our current focus.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Connors of Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of questions.
First off Rick I want to talk a little bit about the U.S.
irrigation business in particular just a couple of questions there.
Number one just to what extent if at all do you think a relatively mild winter in terms of weather play a role in the quarter for better or worse? And then number two can you just talk about the geographic distribution of the strength in the U.S.
irrigation business? In other words is it the core kind of Nebraska and other plains markets that are driving the strength? Or is there strength in sort of some of the nontraditional pivot markets? Well first Ryan in terms of the weather I'd say that it's difficult to pinpoint that as a specific driver for the sales that we've seen.
And I say that because even going back to the previous quarter we were seeing strong order activity and strong revenue.
And there was discussion about Section 179 for example.
We talked about what impact that would have.
And the strong order and sales activity continued great through the year end and has stayed pretty strong.
Now what we have seen is that our product sales were probably a little higher in the quarter due to the good weather and people able to get out and work on the machines a little quicker than what they might have if the weather had been let's say more typical winter and a harsher winter.
But I don't think there's anything real significant to read into -- in that part of it.
So I think weather-wise nothing major.
And I'm sorry the second part of your question was...
Research Division</strong> Just had to do with as you're seeing the strength in the U.S.
business is it mostly driven by sort of Nebraska and the other sort of traditional pivot markets? Or are you seeing greater adoption in some of the markets that traditionally have not utilized irrigation that heavily? Well the regional split in the U.S.
what I would -- how I would describe it is basically all of the regions have been strong compared to the previous year all of them up from the previous year with really one exception.
The one area that has struggled this season has been Texas.
And as you know with the drought they've suffered this past year I'm not really surprised at that.
But all the other regions for the most part are up.
And surprisingly not all but most of them are up a very similar percentage.
So it's been pretty strong across the country.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Interesting.
And then I just wanted to revisit the prior question there on margins.
And you talked about kind of the drivers and ERP being a benefit.
As you look forward what do you see as a margin potential in irrigation in particular now that you've got that ERP system in place? And I mean is there a potential for a reasonably significant step change in margins if unit demand is stable here and even improves a little bit? I think there's always that opportunity.
I think there's a number of factors that are driving margins from our standpoint.
One has been productivity improvements in the factory as I mentioned the ERP piece.
The other one is volume related in terms of leveraging fixed expenses.
That can be impactful in terms of margin.
Another one is steel pricing.
And if we saw some pullback in steel pricing that allowed us to hold on to that price that could be an improvement in margins.
So there's a number of factors that can play into it.
And the other one of course is what happens with competition.
And that one can go either direction.
But I think the opportunity for steps improvement is there.
I'm not -- of course you're projecting or forecasting that as we're not getting any guidance in terms of future quarters.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And then just one final a little bit of a bigger-picture question.
So my understanding is that there's a significant amount of acreage that will be expiring out of the Conservation Reserve Program the CRP program this year and that re-enrollment in that program will be pretty weak just because of how -- the stronger earnings potential on that land outside of the CRP program.
So do you -- what's your view on that issue? As acreage comes out of CRP we're kind of looking at that as a positive in terms of right opportunity for additional demand as that acreage goes into agriculture production.
Do you look at that the same way? Or what's your view on that issue? Well I have a mixed view in the sense of that.
I probably considered something like a 50-50 perspective on that one Ryan in the sense that some of the acreage that will come out of CRP is probably not prime acreage in terms of acreage that will be either high yield or that they'll even -- may even have water -- not have water access.
So it's really a mixed view.
I don't really put too much emphasis on that.
What I see as more positive is the current commodity prices.
The fact that there will be some more acreage that will be put into production I really think is generally beneficial.
So I think there is some opportunity in that acreage but I wouldn't consider it significant.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Drab of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us just a rough sense breakdown of QMB sales year-over-year and even if it's down 1/3 or down 1/2 or something like that? Well as I mentioned in the comments it's down about I think it was 85% roughly from the same quarter last year.
Research Division</strong> Oh I'm sorry I missed that.
Okay.
Yes.
It's a very significant decrease.
But also in the second quarter of last year we had part of the second half of the New York bridge project that was being completed.
So there was a pretty sizable project that was in that quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes.
Sorry I didn't -- I missed that.
So -- then the pushouts that you're referring to is it -- can you give us a little bit more of a sense if it's projects that you are expecting in the third quarter that may be moved to the fourth? Or is it more fiscal 2012 moving to fiscal 2013? It's a difficult one Brian in the sense of we have one of the projects that we expected in our planning process say earlier in the year that would have been in the second quarter.
It was one that we also had expected could happen last year.
And now I would say it's definitely one that I consider to be a 90-plus percent probability that the project will happen.
It's a question of which quarter it will fall into.
And I wouldn't be able to predict that at this point because there's still discussions and things going on around it.
Some of the -- and the projects will range in size from say $2.5 million to $3 million project to a $15 million project.
So there are very different size ranges in here but they are moving around.
And some of it has to do with funding.
And maybe to some extent while we view projects and have seen projects that were from everything we've heard theoretically funded we've seen attempts to take funding from a funded project and move it into other things.
So there's a lot of activity that's taking place so that makes it very hard to predict.
I think the more important aspect of this is that those projects when we do get them are very -- they're profitable.
They provide very good returns to shareholders.
It will always be a little lumpy to predict but we still think the market for those projects and the probability of getting the projects that have been on our list is still very high.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just one more kind of high-level question on the irrigation side.
A lot of investors are struggling trying to figure out how to model irrigation given record farm income in 2011 the likely step-down maybe even though it might be just modest step-down in 2012.
What is the -- what are the fundamental drivers that are leading to increasing demand for irrigation equipment rather than say flat demand albeit at a record level? What's driving the continued growth? Certainly the commodity prices are driving the growth.
The farmers are optimistic in terms of the future and in terms of profit opportunity.
They -- their balance sheets are in good position so they're in a position to be able to take on debt.
The return on the investment for irrigating versus non-irrigating versus dryland farming is significant.
It's probably in the 3- to 5-year payback period in most cases.
But in some cases it's -- it can be 1 to 2 years.
So it's a good return to add that.
And I think one of the things that I've noticed in looking at the historical data that we collect quarter to quarter on application of the equipment is as you recall in a typical year in standard times we would see about 1/3 of our equipment go into dryland 1/3 in the conversion and 1/3 into replacement.
And the numbers have been more in the 40% range into dryland in the recent couple of quarters.
So there's a significant increase in that because of the return that it provides and that profit opportunity.
So that's really the primary driver.
It's different than any other agricultural equipment in my opinion in the sense that it can provide that very significant return when commodity prices rise.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
That's helpful.
I guess not to press the issue but I feel like those long-term drivers the fundamental drivers were in place in 2011.
And is there anything that you can point to that changed in 2012 or gotten better in 2012 compared with 2011? Or is it really just kind of continuing growth in a good growth market? I think that's part of it.
I think there is some momentum that has been created in terms of the -- what we saw in 2011 extended into 2012.
So some of that is -- has some built-up momentum in the agricultural market and we're seeing that momentum still taking place more in the international markets in the sense that there's a few of them that are still lagging in terms of achieving that growth rate.
For example Russia is still coming up to speed and I think we're just starting to see that turn on.
China is still really turning on.
So I think some of the markets are not catching up to the momentum that we've seen in the U.S.
market yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Long [ph] of Piper Jaffray.
I'm sitting in on behalf of Mike Cox.
And I just want to focus a bit on the international.
I'm wondering for the irrigation segment of the regions that you mentioned where do you see the greatest sales momentum? Well the -- I guess in terms of the sales momentum we had some very strong regions during the quarter.
Europe was strong in the quarter.
Canada the Middle East was strong in the quarter.
We had a number that were strong in the quarter and yet some of the best momentum and the biggest potential ones that I see still are Russia and Ukraine China.
I think Brazil has some strength.
But Brazil and Argentina are going through some drought conditions in parts.
So that will play a role and have some impact.
But I would say that the highest-potential markets still globally are in Russia Ukraine China and some markets in the Middle East.
Okay.
And are you -- how do you -- how is the credit availability in those regions in those international markets? Well it's spotty in terms of Russia and Ukraine.
It can be a little more challenging there.
China typically we're not dealing with significant credit issues because in many cases the customer is the Chinese government.
And it'll be in one region or province or another.
So we're dealing generally with government in those cases.
However I would say that doesn't assure a timely payment but it's a -- it does assure that the funds will be there for payment.
Okay.
And then final question just on the international margins is there a scale or revenue level that we should look for to start seeing international margins converge to the domestic business? Or does a component sourcing make that impossible? Well it's certainly not impossible.
A lot of it has to do with the scaling of our international factories.
And most of our international factories we have started those with sourcing tubing locally and galvanizing outside suppliers locally versus being very vertically integrated as we are in our U.S.
operations.
As the volume is increasing in markets we will continue to explore and expand vertical integration of our factories in those markets.
And we're close in a couple of areas where we may invest more to -- in terms of vertical integration.
But as those businesses in those markets grow we will add more in and it will reduce our cost basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Shoop of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First on just investing in the business organically it sounds like maybe some vertical integration opportunities in international markets.
And then inorganically acquisitions sound like there might be a little bit larger.
And based on the size of the deals we're looking at I would imagine those aren't going be to further vertically integrate the business.
So maybe help me understand what types of end markets you're looking at for acquisitions.
Is it more on the irrigation segment more on the infrastructure segment or something outside of your core competencies today? Well first in terms of the organic growth I think the 2 primary areas where we would be looking at from an organic growth standpoint would be in adding new products product line expansions and vertical integration.
In addition to that we'll continue to invest in things like geographical expansion.
So those will potentially require some capital.
And when we look at our acquisition opportunities we're looking at primarily water use efficiency and transportation safety.
And I would say that the emphasis has been more on water use efficiency-type products to date and we'll continue to be looking in that area.
We're looking for businesses that will be synergistic to those 2 core businesses of ours.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the kind of financial hurdles when you think of the potential acquisitions what type of financial hurdles do you have at the board level in regards to efficiency and accretion if there are any? Well our view has been that we expect the acquisitions to be accretive within a year of the acquisition.
That's one of the first ones.
We also obviously look at the multiples that we're going be paying for an acquisition.
And it is difficult.
We do see that in the M&amp;A market some of the potential ones we've looked at particularly in the water space in the past have been bid up pretty heavily which causes us to walk away.
We've been pretty comfortable and probably that may be 6x to 8x EBITDA-type multiple.
I wouldn't rule out others but it's been in that range where there's a fair level of comfort especially when we can see a synergy.
And we also for each of the acquisition -- specifically significant acquisitions that we look at we'll model in 3 scenarios kind of a base case worst-case and best-case scenarios before we proceed with the deal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And moving over to the order trend in the quarter can you talk a little bit about the linearity that you saw? Obviously a huge acceleration in orders on a year-over-year basis versus the November quarter.
Was that a little bit more front end weighted? Did you see the orders come on a little bit stronger towards the end of the quarter? And then is that persisting in the current quarter here fiscal 3Q? Well I won't go too deep into the current quarter but I would say that it was pretty consistent through the quarter.
As I mentioned what we're looking at coming up to year end and thinking that we may see more of the orders being driven by the Section 179 ending we didn't really see that.
Our order rate continued to be solid and did through the quarter.
And as I mentioned in my opening comments we did continue to see robust order activity into our peak selling period as we're in right now.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Last question how should investors think about the likelihood of a large booking in the QMB side in the second half of the year? I mean it sounds like the potential is for more projects to get pushed out.
So at the low end it seems like no projects no large projects.
What would be kind of a bold case scenario in regards to how many projects could potentially be booked in the second half of the year for QMB? Well I'm not really going to give an estimate or projection on that in the sense that we look at it as there's a number of those that are opportunities that could fall into the second half of the year.
But as we've seen in some quarters we've seen some of those slip out.
All of those are wonderful projects when we get them.
We're very happy to get them.
But I'm not going to really forecast or project projects for the second half.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Beach of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm impressed with the small increase in the SG&amp;A expense in spite of some small acquisitions.
Is this something you can sustain out into the future SG&amp;A growing meaningfully lower than your revenue base? Yes Jeff this is Jim Raabe.
I would say that this is kind of a good indicator as far as a good indicator of the current run rate and we look at SG&amp;A for the year in that 15% range.
I think it's a very disciplined organization with regard to how we approach SG&amp;A and our intent is to continue to lever it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And second can you give us some additional color on the 3 segments in infrastructure outside of the QMB rail structure road safety contract manufacturing? I know in the last quarter you indicated you saw a good outlook for rail in this year and it doesn't sound like it occurred in the second quarter.
But can you just talk about the outlook there? Yes.
I would say that your perspective on the rail is right and that we do see a good opportunity and we have seen some good interest.
We've had a couple of good quarters in the past.
Some of it was driven by some of the PTC the positive train control activities that will take place.
What we've seen in the last couple of quarters is that the rail activity has been down.
And primarily what we're making is railroad signaling structures.
And we found that we definitely were impacted by the flooding that took place last year in the spring and held on through the summer.
And we haven't really seen that pick back up since then.
So we think there's still good opportunities for rail but we haven't seen that return to the kind of robust levels that we were running at previously.
In terms of the road safety products they're generally running flat to a little bit up from the same time last year.
So we've seen that performing pretty well the first 5 manufacturing which consists of the contract manufacturing.
And our tubing business is also relatively flat.
When you look at all of those pieces together outside of the QMB I believe the number was a 4% decrease in the quarter and up slightly for the year.
So overall there isn't much change in that year-over-year in those other pieces.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And outlook for the contract manufacturing and tubing that sounds like it ought to be doing -- registering some pretty good growth over the course of let's say the next several quarters.
Is that the case? I think there's definitely opportunity for growth in the tubing business.
And I think that the tubing sector end market in total has some excellent growth opportunities.
We'd like to see that expand our business expand in that area.
In the form of the contract manufacturing that's really not a piece of our business that is expanding.
We've got a good relationship with our select customer base there that we want to maintain.
However we're not actively pursuing contract manufacturing-type projects.
We look more for growing the proprietary products within our business.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Mondillo of Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just in terms of the QMB it seems like domestically you would be sort of tough also in Europe just given the budget constraints municipally as well as federally.
I was wondering if you guys are trying to attack other markets that are maybe easier to win contracts.
Absolutely.
I think that the -- when you look at the QMB product line and the system in total in terms of what it does from a traffic mitigation and road safety standpoint it's really a pretty significant product in any area where there's a major metropolitan area with a large population base particularly those with bridges.
So we still see many growth opportunities within the United States.
Outside the United States we've had good success in Australia and New Zealand Puerto Rico some in Europe.
But as you said some markets are more impacted than others.
But the second part of that is that we've really taken an approach of developing a prospecting approach to this or marketing aspect of it.
But we're looking at all of the major metropolitan areas throughout the world and identifying those that are potentially good candidates for the solution and developing marketing activities to approach those markets.
So I think whether the next sale happens in Brazil or Australia or Puerto Rico or Hawaii or wherever it is we don't really know but I'd say that we're actively working in many cities around the world.
LLC</strong> Could you talk about how you go about actually marketing the product? Do you have sales agents all around the world and you go to municipals or cities? And how does that work? In some cases it's distributors who are distributing our other safety products or bringing opportunities to us.
In some cases it's a rep who may be finding an opportunity and bringing it to us.
I think the ones that we see often are also ones where they know of the product and the government agency is contacting us directly.
I love those but I really like for us to be more proactive in terms of finding those before the government agency has to contact us.
But it really comes from a number of different options and solutions.
We've also created a great video on -- that shows the benefits of the QMB system that we've used in working with some of the government agencies to help educate the benefits of that system which has -- which I believe will drive demand as well.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just changing subjects a couple of small things.
First off how long out did your backlog go? How long -- are you referring to the total backlog or the infrastructure QMB backlog? LLC</strong> The total backlog.
Well I'd say the total backlog is relatively short in duration in the sense that it's mostly irrigation and backlog typically will represent less than a month of sales.
However we are seeing some extended lead times in orders at this stage where typically we would able to fill orders in let's say 2 to 3-week time period.
We're probably in the 4- to 5-week time period in many cases in irrigation today.
So that backlog is a little longer than normal but it's still pretty short in length.
LLC</strong> So that backlog at the end of February was about March's backlog? Well I wouldn't characterize it in terms of a specific month.
I don't really have that information because it's going to be also a combination of domestic and international orders.
But I would say that backlog typically turns pretty fast.
LLC</strong> Okay.
all right.
And then also you mentioned China and Russia's opportunities.
What percent of sales is that of your current sales? And how are you positioning to attack those markets? Well both of those when we look at the -- first half of this year would be very insignificant in terms of sales for the first half.
Those markets are really turning on for the season now at about this time.
So we'll see potentially more activity in the next quarter to 2 quarters in those markets.
China for us usually happens in the second half of the year.
I wouldn't describe or break out a specific percentage of sales for any region.
I would say that China's been one of the fastest-growing regions we've had in the last couple of years.
Your next question comes from the line of David Rose of Wedbush Securities.
This is Michelle in for Dave.
My first question is how are you measuring your progress on the ERP? And could you quantify the benefits or headwinds in the quarter? Well I think that we are monitoring our progress relative to the overall productivity of the plant in the utilization of the tools that we have there.
I think to date our -- as we mentioned at the end of fiscal year our focus was really on trying to get back to kind of more normal productivity in the first couple of quarters.
And I think we've accomplished that.
Now we're really looking at how we can use the tool going forward but it's -- we certainly have overall productivity measures that we use in the plant that are driven by a number of factors.
And the utilization of the ERP is one of them but it's also somewhat subjective with regard to the overall efficiency on workstations and individual processes and those kinds of things.
My next question can you provide more color on international what you're seeing maybe in Eastern Europe? Are there any new distributors? And then can you comment on Latin America and the Middle East? Well in terms what we're seeing in Eastern Europe there's still very strong interest.
We've also seen that there's been difficulties as we discussed earlier with credit in some of those markets.
But the growers that have the money still have strong interest.
And we're seeing that conversion starting to take place where say 2 years ago they were interested in talking and looking at the new technologies and seeing what we had to offer.
Now we've seen in the last couple years the order rate is picking up.
So I think it's starting to accelerate.
It's still not in a real high level yet but we will continue to see acceleration in that market.
Middle East is -- tends to be still pretty project oriented for us.
We had some projects that really where primarily in the previous quarter and some of it in the second quarter.
But it will be a little more project oriented in the Middle East region.
Latin America we've seen good growth certainly in Brazil.
We see some growth opportunities now in Argentina.
We've seen Chile market overall good but it's not a very big market.
And Mexico of course has been a good market for us.
So overall I'd say the Latin American market is strong and has still a lot of potential.
Great.
And my last question is in the second quarter of 2011 steel cost rose 12% over 2010.
Could you provide us insight on how we should think about your ability to manage these costs for the remainder of the year? For example how much pricing would the company need to take in order to keep up with inflation? Could you repeat the first part of that? I missed -- I'm sorry it was a little quiet.
How do you think about your ability to manage costs steel costs for the remainder of the year? How much pricing would the company...
Did you say steel costs or fuel costs? Steel.
Yes I understand.
Okay.
Yes.
I think that obviously fuel affects in both our outbound and inbound.
And the inbound kind of is factored into our overall costing and that indirectly gets fed into our steel costs and those kind of things.
And I think Rick has already alluded to what we've seen there which is about 15% increases year-over-year but a little bit kind of more flattening with steel prices.
From an outbound freight standpoint we try to manage that to be relatively neutral from the standpoint of what we charge for getting our deliveries to our dealers and to our customers.
And I think we manage it from that perspective.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the conference back to Mr.
Parod for closing remarks.
For our business overall the global long-term drivers of water conservation is population growth increasing importance of biofuel and the need for safer more efficient transportation solutions remain very positive.
In addition to the overall business enhancements that have taken place we continue to have an ongoing structured acquisition process that will generate additional growth opportunities throughout the world in water and infrastructure.
Lindsay is committed to achieving earnings growth through global market expansion improvements in margins and strategic acquisitions.
I'd like to thank you for your questions and participation in this call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's Lindsay Corporation Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sharae and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation Third (sic) [Fourth] Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which reflect management’s current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Joining me on today's call are Jim Raabe our Chief Financial Officer; and Lori Zarkowski our Chief Accounting Officer.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 we continued to experience growth in irrigation equipment demand which drove revenues in the quarter of $127.8 million 10% higher than last year.
Net earnings were $8.8 million or $0.68 per diluted share compared with $5.9 million or $0.46 per diluted share in the prior year's fourth quarter.
Operating margins increased to 9.9% compared to 8.4% in the same quarter of last year.
Irrigation equipment demand remained comparatively high through the quarter supported by the high crop prices.
We ended the quarter with backlog that was higher than at the end of the previous quarter and at the end of the fiscal 2011.
Total revenues for fiscal 2012 were a record $551.3 million increasing 15% from the same period last year.
Net earnings for fiscal 2012 were $43.3 million or $3.38 per diluted share compared to $36.8 million or $2.90 per diluted share for fiscal 2011.
2012 results included a $7.2 million accrual for environmental remediation at our Lindsay Nebraska facility.
Excluding the environmental accrual net earnings for fiscal 2012 were $3.75 per diluted share and operating margins improved to 13.2% compared to 12.1% in the same period last year.
For the global irrigation segment sales totaled $107.9 million in the quarter 18% higher than last year.
Irrigation operating margins improved to 15% compared to 13.4% last year.
In the U.S.
market irrigation equipment revenues were $56.3 million for the fourth quarter increasing 18% over the same period last year with most of the increase in demand occurring in the drought-affected Midwest corn belt.
During the quarter commodity prices continued to climb ending the quarter with corn prices up 28% soybean prices up 33% over the same time last year.
The USDA increased its projected 2012 net farm income to be $122.2 billion which would be the highest on record and 65% higher than the 10-year average reflecting the higher crop prices as well as the significant increase in crop insurance income through the drought.
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 international irrigation revenues increased 19% to $51.7 million.
Revenues increased most notably in China Mexico Latin America Africa and Canada.
We continue to see significant activity in our international irrigation market and believe these markets will be a primary source of long-term growth.
For the full fiscal year of 2012 irrigation segment revenues increased 28% to $475.3 million.
In the U.S.
market irrigation revenues were $305.4 million for the full year rising 34% over the previous year aided by rising crop prices.
In the international market irrigation revenues were $169.9 million increasing 19% over the previous year with significant increases in China Africa and the Middle East.
Infrastructure segment revenues were $19.9 million in the fourth quarter decreasing 20% from the fourth quarter of last year primarily due to lower sales and leases of QMB systems.
Throughout the year infrastructure demand remained challenging due to funding issues and transportation project delays.
While the project nature of QMB systems sales creates earnings volatility for the infrastructure segment we've made good progress in reducing the cost structure of the segment in 2012 and expect additional sales growth and profit improvement in 2013.
The recent passage of a Highway Bill providing funding through 2014 should result in an improved environment for infrastructure spending.
For fiscal 2012 infrastructure revenues were $76 million decreasing 30% from fiscal 2011 due primarily to the lower QMB systems sales for large infrastructure projects.
Gross profit was $32.7 million or 25.6% of sales for the fourth quarter versus $30.1 million or 25.9% in the same quarter last year.
Irrigation gross margins increased by approximately 1 percentage point primarily due to fixed cost leverage and efficiency gain over the fourth quarter of last year.
Infrastructure margins decreased approximately 6 percentage points due to lower QMB sales partially offset by improved margins in road safety and diversified products.
Operating expenses in the fourth quarter decreased slightly to $20.1 million.
Fourth quarter expenses included incremental expenses for an acquired company purchased in fiscal 2011 and higher marketing and selling expenses.
The prior year fourth quarter also included expenses associated with the ERP implementation and an adverse administrative tax ruling in a foreign business unit.
Operating expenses as a percentage of sales dropped to 15.7% for the quarter compared to 17.5% for the same quarter last year.
Our order backlog was $57.1 million on August 31 2012 as compared to $46 million August 31 2011 and $44.5 million on May 31 2012.
Irrigation backlog is higher than at the end of last fiscal year and sequentially higher than the previous quarter while infrastructure backlog is lower than the same time last year and sequentially lower.
Cash and cash equivalents of $143.4 million were $35.3 million higher than at the same time last year while debt decreased $4.3 million over the same period.
Accounts receivable were $3.6 million higher year-over-year due to the higher sales and inventories increased $3.3 million with improved inventory turns.
Our primary uses of cash remain investing in organic growth opportunities while continuing to seek accretive acquisitions that add new businesses and/or product lines.
We expect capital expenditures in 2013 of approximately $15 million to $20 million largely focused on manufacturing capacity and productivity improvements.
In summary 2012 resulted in record revenue and earnings for Lindsay Corporation.
Irrigation sales and profits rose driven by positive farmer sentiment record farm incomes rising crop prices.
Drought across the U.S.
had a significant negative impact on yields and we anticipate a significant reduction in U.S.
ending stocks of corn continuing to support high crop prices.
Adding efficient automated irrigation equipment remains the most impactful way to enhance yields for many farms around the world especially through dry periods and for efficient utilization of limited water resources.
In the infrastructure segment reduced government spending on highway and other infrastructure projects has continued to be an impediment to significant growth and profitability resulting in the lowest QMB revenue in fiscal 2012 since the acquisition of the product line in 2006.
However we believe that with the recent passage of the Highway Bill providing funding through 2014 market conditions will improve.
The improvement in transportation infrastructure and overall road safety remains a priority for state and for the federal government as well as many countries around the world.
As we proceed into fiscal 2013 we're confident that the key drivers for our markets remain favorable and that over the long term increasing agricultural yields to boost food supply improving water use efficiency biofuel production improving transportation infrastructure will remain global priorities.
I'd now like to open it for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Brett Wong of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions on the backlog.
Wondering if there are any geographic concentrations with your backlog.
I mean has the U.S.
drought driven any international increases in sales? Well I think the -- I don't have the specific breakout of the irrigation backlog between domestic and international.
I think it would be fair to say that the drought has had wide impact across the world with a sense of as we've seen emphasis on trying to provide enough corn we've seen an emphasis now in growing corn in other areas as well.
And also we've seen increased production in soybeans in South America for example to offset the acres that were reduced and have gone to corn in the United States.
So it has had broad implications.
I don't have the specifics with -- on backlog but I would say that most of what we saw in the U.S.
in terms of backlog would probably be representative of what we saw in the last quarter's revenues where we were seeing very significant increases in the drought-affected Midwest corn belt.
And I think that would be the primary area in the U.S.
where we would have seen increases in our backlog.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are you seeing crop insurance play any part in equipment orders? I can't say that we've seen crop insurance playing a part in equipment orders to date.
I would say that the majority of the farmers from what we have seen and believe are covered with some form of crop insurance and farmers are in pretty good shape from an overall farm income standpoint and from a balance sheet standpoint which leaves them in good position for continued purchases of equipment especially irrigation this year because I think there's a very broad realization of the impact of this drought and the benefits of irrigation versus non-irrigated fields in a period like this.
I also think that the Section 179 tax benefit is out there that farmers are also looking at this year and saying -- seeing that irrigation may be the right answer for using that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question any update on the Golden Gate Bridge project? Or timing for equipments? There's not.
The -- as we talked about in the last quarter the Golden Gate Bridge authority had announced that they were doing this project.
That it's still out there.
We still expect that that will be probably in the fall of 2013.
Your next question comes from Schon Williams of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could just talk about -- I mean in terms of visibility on the infrastructure side I mean we know that QMB can be quite volatile.
But what do you have a lot of confidence on as we move into the fiscal 2013? Where do you have confidence on within infrastructure in terms of either new QMB projects new leasing projects or maybe even base demand within the safety products? I mean what do you have a concrete idea about what could actually improve as we move into next year? Schon I think the one area where I'd have some confidence is we've seen some pretty good stabilization in terms of the road safety products in general.
They had a pretty good year in the sales of things like crash cushions and the other road safety products.
I anticipate that we will continue to see some stability in there but also opportunities to continue to grow internationally as well as in the U.S.
and grow market share in road safety products.
In addition to that I think in terms of QMB we're pretty confident with the list of projects that we have that they are potential QMB projects and we're confident in projects like Golden Gate Bridge at this time.
If you were to say is any of it rock solid it's very difficult to say because of course it's subject to a funding and whatever happens going forward.
But there's a reason to have a pretty good confidence level on the continued growth of QMB.
Timing is always very difficult.
Research Division</strong> Do we have to have QMB activity next year in order to get the margins up versus where we were in fiscal '12? Or are there other factors either some of the restructuring or maybe some of the base improvement in road safety is that enough to -- as long as the market is up we'll still see the continued margin improvement? Or do we have to land something in QMBs to move the needle here? Well I think the way to think about it is that in many respects we need QMB projects to move the needle significantly or in a meaningful way in -- from an operating margin standpoint in infrastructure.
And the primary reason is the other product lines are beneficial are making money and are doing well and better and improving as we go along.
However we are carrying some costs of sales and marketing on QMB projects that are not covered by those other businesses so we need some QMB revenue as well to significantly move the needle in the infrastructure business.
So I'm not concerned about or -- and I've been actually pleased with the changes we've seen in the other pieces of the business but I am concerned about the timing of QMB projects in general because there is a cost associated with the sales and marketing activity associated with it.
On the other hand I would say when we do get those projects they're -- it's very profitable and they're great projects to have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last follow-up if I may you guys have actually done quite a good job with cost control in general this year.
I want to say you've kept selling expense essentially flat.
Engineering research is actually -- has gone down.
As we move into 2013 assuming that it is going to be a year of maybe modest growth do you think you can -- is there anything you see in accelerating within spending and may say -- that may come to pressure margins a bit? Or can you see a further dialback in any of those line items? Just kind of your thoughts about spending versus growth next year? At this point I wouldn't project any dialback or significant increases in spending in those categories either sales and marketing or engineering expenses.
I would say that we're pleased with the progress that we're making in the engineering and product development side in terms of some of the new products.
For example a new version of FieldNET that we've recently launched which has taken some investment through this year.
However there's additional modifications and enhancements to it that will be made in terms of adding additional features as we go through this year.
So I would expect that engineering expense will remain relatively in the same area.
But I don't anticipate at this point any significant rise or scale back.
I think we're running at a pretty good rate at this point.
Nothing I'm aware of at this time.
Your next question comes from Brian Drab of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I think -- I'd like to actually repeat one of the questions that I just heard there and see if we could get a more specific answer Rick.
Do you need QMB sales in this next fiscal year for margins to go up from fiscal 2012? Well I think if we're looking at just the infrastructure piece Brian I would say we need QMB sales in order for infrastructure margins to improve significantly not to improve at all because we've made improvements in our infrastructure business pieces to date that we will see some improvement in this next fiscal year.
So while we're looking at obviously kind of a breakeven level we can see some improvement now of the changes that have already been implemented.
However to move it in a meaningful way given the -- what we've established as kind of a fixed level or a baseline fixed cost level for QMB and for attracting those projects and marketing to those projects we need some QMB revenue as well.
And when I say that I don't mean that it's unlikely we'll get it because I think it's very likely we'll get it but I'm not going to make a projection in terms of the timing of specific projects or specific amounts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there anything -- is there any increased optimism in the pipeline for QMB relative to the last time that we spoke in last quarterly call? I wouldn't really reflect any increased optimism.
I would say that I was optimistic with what I saw happen with the Golden Gate project in terms of what they put out prior to last quarter.
I think there is nothing that I have seen or heard that would say that that's changed.
I'm still very optimistic about that project.
There's other projects that have been in the works that have had some delays and I'm also optimistic about but I would say nothing really specific or tangible beyond that.
I really have no reason to be pessimistic on QMB at all at this point and I think that the global opportunities for it are extensive.
However it requires more work.
And what we're going to do is add another sales position in fact that will be covered with some other organization changes to really focus on expanding the QMB sales because it is definitely worthwhile.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And can you talk just a little bit more about productivity improvements that you made in the non-QMB part of your infrastructure business? And specifically what have you done to improve productivity? And could you maybe quantify in terms of basis points of margin expansion that you think you've achieved in that non-QMB part of the infrastructure segment? I don't know that I'm ready to quantify specifics.
Jim may have some things he can had in terms of some of that but I'd say the types of things that have been done and there have been operational efficiencies achieved through some reorganization and scale back in -- from an organization standpoint in a couple of cases.
There have been operational efficiencies in -- from a manufacturing standpoint where a primary facility that's producing a lot of our infrastructure products that's based here in Omaha we've done some restructuring and made some changes.
And I'd say that's its operating much more efficiently and leaner than it was say even 6 months ago.
So I think those types of efficiencies have taken place.
I think there's better administrative control in terms of pricing management and product line management than what we've seen 6 months ago or a year ago.
So I think they're in a number of different areas all of which will be beneficial for the longer term.
Our next question comes from Nathan Jones of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if I cover something that you covered in your prepared remarks.
I got on late.
Just starting in irrigation your contribution margins have come in a little bit from where they were earlier in the year.
Can you talk about that -- the level of contribution margin that you're at if you're satisfied with that if you think you can maintain that kind of level going forward? Well I would say on the irrigation side there is always a couple of things that factor into the fourth quarter numbers.
Some of that being in this year there's a little bit of a mix shift with relatively more international in the irrigation which as you know is a little bit lower margin.
There's always a little bit of deleverage in the fixed cost because of the volume pullback in the fourth quarter versus other parts of the year.
But as a whole we've seen improvements over the year-ago levels.
We've seen efficiency gains in our irrigation margins here on a year-over-year comparison basis.
So yes I think we feel good about the progress we've made there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I'll try something again on the infrastructure segment.
Can you -- are you able to quantify what level of cost has been taken out of the business during 2012 that might be incremental savings in 2013? Yes.
I mean I -- and some of this obviously occurred over the course of the year but we've taken somewhere in the range of $1 million plus a quarter out.
Now some of that was earlier in the year so you won't see a -- you wouldn't see a $4 million gain year-over-year.
But that's kind of at least the quantifying or magnitude of what we've done in the infrastructure business.
So that's $4 million on a roughly $100 million business so pretty good opportunity there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And over to the balance sheet you're at $11 million of net cash on the balance sheet now.
If you are unable to find acquisitions that meet your criteria are we thinking about share repurchases these days? Or how are we going to get the balance sheet to not have so much cash on it? We're considering all options in terms of what we do with that cash as I stated earlier.
But the primary initial use of cash is going to be our organic growth.
Plus we have some things in terms of CapEx that's certainly planned.
We got dividend that has declined at this point.
But we will look at all of the options.
We also right now have a very active acquisition process which has continued with many candidates.
So I'm not ready to say that we're ready to change that direction yet but we're -- we will consider any options.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you have any expectation on when acquisitions might be completed? Or is it just impossible to say when they're going to get over the line? Yes I always have expectations of them getting completed in practically every quarter but it's impossible to say when they will take place because there's so many different factors to it.
But obviously I'm anxious in a couple of cases to see that we can get those done because we do see some interesting pieces that would fit well with our business but requires a willing seller and a number of other factors to make that happen.
So it is very very difficult to estimate that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on domestic irrigation my last question.
Are you getting any indications from your dealers or salespeople what kind of level of irrigation spend they're expecting for the selling season coming up next year? No I wouldn't say that we're getting any indication of what they expect for the year.
I would say that the dealers tend to be a little shorter in perspective as a general rule meaning they're dealing with a high level of activity at the end of this past quarter which has continued a bit.
So I think that the dealers are looking at it more from the opportunity has been big as this drought has continued.
But they're not really projecting through this next year at this point.
Your next question comes from Jon Braatz of Kansas City Capital.
Back to sort of the domestic irrigation we've been hearing that it might be a possibility that given more crop insurance payments this year that maybe equipment purchases whether it be irrigation or tractors and so on might be a little bit delayed this year from maybe normal seasonal patterns.
Do you sense that at all? Do you see -- any feeling in that regard? I don't see that.
I've heard comments about the possibility that some equipment purchases could be delayed.
I've heard comments that obviously farmers may spend insurance proceeds different than they would spend crop receipts.
So I think all of those are potential factors but I'd say that what happened this past year with the drought really moved irrigation to front of mind for most of the -- particularly the Midwest but I would say throughout the U.S.
And we've seen more of an acceleration of the process of buying irrigation equipment rather than the latter or any kind of a delay.
So I haven't really seen or heard of those factors causing a delay at this stage.
Are you seeing any new geographical markets here in the United States that were typically non-irrigated maybe looking towards irrigation as a solution more than they have in the past? Well the interesting factor that I watch is the percentage of the machines that are going out into say dry land versus conversion or replacement of existing pivots.
And what we've seen in very normal years when commodity prices were lower was usually about 1/3 1/3 1/3: in [ph] replacement conversion and dry land.
What we've seen this past year I'd say that the estimate is about 44% of the machines that went out went into dry land adding irrigation for the first time which is I think really reflecting the higher commodity prices and the drought situation that took place.
And it's indicative of we're really seeing that opportunity that exists by converting to irrigated crop land.
So I don't think it's limited to any areas.
I will say that -- I think in some areas let's say the Southeast or different parts of the U.S.
we've seen a little more of a pickup than we've seen in the past but in general it's been across-the-board.
Okay.
Are you approaching this year any differently in terms of production schedules and maybe building some additional units for inventory or how are you looking at this season? Well we've had dealers that are interested in taking some units earlier in the year to have those on hand to meet some demand and we're encouraging some of that.
So I would say yes we're approaching it a little bit different probably running at a higher level than we -- we certainly are running at a higher level than we would in a typical year because of that.
But that's primarily it.
I think we'll see more of the units going out earlier in the year.
Okay.
And pricing this year? Pricing has been really pretty consistent.
We haven't seen much change.
We see a little increased price competition from time to time in different markets or different regions but it is more -- it's pretty spotty.
We're also seeing that steel prices which obviously plays a big part in this have been pretty stable.
It has actually moved down a little bit.
And that's been somewhat beneficial.
But in general I'd say there's been pretty good -- prices have been holding quite well in most of the markets.
Your next question comes from Chris Shaw of Monness Crespi.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you give a break out of the -- in irrigation for 2012? What was volume and what was pricing? No we don't typically do that.
No.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I wasn't sure.
Fair enough.
And looking at the degree of change in the backlog obviously it seemed to grow significantly as of this last quarter.
But now that we sit here on October 17 you're 1.5 month into the first quarter is it fair to say that the sort of trends in the growth of backlog has continued into the first quarter here? I don't really want to go into the first quarter and what's happened with that other than to say that when you look at the backlog at the end of the fiscal year you can see that it's higher than it was from the previous year and sequentially higher from an irrigation standpoint.
So backlog is indicating that there was strong demand and that's due to the drought in a typical slow period.
So usually we'll see at the end of our fiscal year that that's more getting to harvest time so we'll see demand drop off pretty quickly.
But overall I would say that the order rates through the end of the quarter was very strong.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then looking at margins for irrigation I guess 2013 they were up previously like [ph] sort of 200 basis points in 2012.
Is that something you could probably -- could you repeat something of that magnitude in '13? Or are you just looking for something more stable? No I wouldn't necessarily expect any significant changes.
Our gross margin rates from year to year tend to remain fairly stable.
Obviously steel inputs is a factor but then the competitive size is as well and -- so there's always a little bit of benefit when there's strong demand.
But I really wouldn't expect any significant swings from year to year.
Your next question comes from David Rose of Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> On international again and in the quarter if you provide a little bit of color how many of these -- of the sales for at least the products that you're working on in China that were delayed in the third quarter sell to [ph] the fourth quarter? I'm sorry David I can't -- I didn't hear your question.
Could you speak up a little? Research Division</strong> Sure.
In the fourth quarter the increase in irrigation international irrigation sales you benefited significantly I imagine some from products that were delayed in the third quarter in China to the fourth quarter.
How many of the products in China went into the fourth quarter? Or was this actually all x China? Well there was -- I think we saw until the end of the third quarter about some projects being delayed in China and we expected that that would fall in the fourth quarter which it did.
I'm not going to split out the specific amount but I would say that what was expected to happen in China in the fourth quarter did.
And overall what we ended up with in China this past year was an increase over previous years.
So we've seen some good growth in China this past year which primarily a good portion of it landed in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And the international sales growth is that attributable to same-store sales at existing dealers? Or do you have expansion of the dealers? Most of it would be sales through existing dealers.
I don't think there was really much that I would attribute to expansion of dealer network.
I would say that they've been through our existing dealer network in the markets that were defined.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the last question on QMB as a follow-up to a previous question.
Can you give us some sort of maybe handicap how you expect your QMB products to fall first half second half of 2013? Golden Gate sounds like it's fall of 2013 so '14 for you.
Any other projects that would fall in the first half or second half? Well we have a number of projects that we're working that we could see some fall in the first half and some in the second and I'm really not going to get into defining those.
I'd also say that I wouldn't conclude that Golden Gate would fall into '14 because while they're planning to complete that project have it open in the fall of '13 I would expect that we could see some revenue from that sooner.
But at this point I don't really want to project on any specific period for QMB.
Your next question comes from Andrew O'Connor [ph] of Harris Investments.
Rick can you guys speak to any new technical innovation that's coming about in irrigation or that you and your colleagues are bringing to the market? I think the in terms of the new technologies and the things that have happened some of it would've been a representative of what we showed at Husker Harvest Show this past fall just a month or so ago where we were showing our new FieldNET web-based solution web-based control product and that will be I think big in the next few months in terms of what their customers are seeing and saying about it as far as additional features that it adds.
And we'll see additional enhancements in terms of incorporating other things into FieldNET which is more of a field management-type solution.
I think we've also had some good progress with technologies such as our integrated pump systems into FieldNET in managing of the pump system which is really key for a number of the larger growers and customers who are trying to really manage their energy costs as well as their water use.
So there's a number of technologies along that that are delivering a more complete solution and a complete farm.
I may have mentioned I think in the last quarter that we get a farm in the Southeast that would be called the Dee River Ranch farm where it has our easy wireless basically broadband communication system.
Our -- we used our irrigation design company to do the design of that system.
It has water kind of pumps systems on it and our pivot so it really is a complete solution for farming and we're going to see more solutions like that in the future.
So you characterize these as incremental improvements.
Are there -- is there anything else that's coming about that might be a game changer more broadly in irrigation? I can't say that there's anything that I would classify as a game changer other than the technologies that manage the irrigation systems and as I said becoming more of a field management-type system.
That is more the area where the emphasis is today.
Okay.
And then lastly you've already spoken around this.
Is it possible to quantify your comments in the press release that related to irrigation -- the same positive factors that continued into the early months of fiscal '13? Can you quantify or give us any more granularity about the first quarter? Yes I really can't comment on the first quarter other than as I've said what we saw at the end of the quarter was good demand driven primarily by the drought and a good order rate that we saw at that time.
Your next question comes from Joe Mondillo of Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just first question related to international irrigation.
I'm just wondering if you could expand on sort of the trends that you're seeing there and sort of just given the slowing sort of global demand and global economies you got Europe you got Brazil you've got China.
With those slowing global regions how are you looking at your international opportunities? Well the interesting part about the international opportunities from our perspective is really that we see continued growth and not slowing.
Part of it is certainly driven by what's happened with commodities and what's happening with the production of those commodities worldwide.
Where the drought in the U.S.
affected corn and soybeans it also had some positive impact in terms of increasing pricing and increasing productions of some of the areas outside of the U.S..
So we've seen increased production in Brazil for example in soybeans and in corn.
And we believe that there will be some upside there.
We're also seeing additional emphasis on sugar cane for ethanol from Brazil which we see as a continued growth opportunity.
China is a continued growth opportunity in both corn and soybean production and we've seen a number of markets like the Russia Ukraine area where there've also been affected by droughts and realized the benefits of adding efficient irrigation today benefiting primarily wheat production.
So we see a lot of growth opportunities because the population continues to rise.
Biofuel is becoming more and more important worldwide.
And as that is taking place the efficient utilization of water and increasing yields is a bigger factor worldwide.
LLC</strong> So in the near to medium term do you feel just as strong as the long term in terms of the opportunities? I do.
I think that the international markets will continue to be growing at a good rate yet lumpy at times in terms of we'll see big projects that will come in that will affect us at that period of time.
So it will not be a linear kind of growth in our equipment from that.
But we'll see continued growth in the international markets both near term and long term.
So I'm pretty optimistic about those growth opportunities that exist.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then looking at domestic irrigation over the last say 3 to 5 years we've seen planted acreage shoot up.
If we see a leveling off or maybe even a tapering down how does that -- how do you think that affects sort of the growth that you've been seeing compared to over the last couple of years? Well it's hard to determine what that will equate to if there is some decrease or let's say slowdown in the growth of planted acreage in the U.S.
I would come back to the fact that as the markets are developing we're continuing to see significant opportunities in terms of conversion from flood irrigation to pivot the replacement of pivots that have been out there for a number of years and this base keeps -- the installed base continues to grow and the addition of converting non-irrigated lands to irrigated lands.
So while there could be some change in acreage overall there's still significant growth opportunities in those specific categories.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then 2 last questions.
One I was wondering if you could just talk about your CapEx project the opportunities and sort of what your CapEx budget you're looking at for '13? And then also the tax rate was a little low on the quarter.
I'm just wondering what was going on there as well.
Well from a CapEx standpoint our expectations for next year are a little bit higher than what they've been recently.
I think there's a number of different opportunities for us to improve productivity in our manufacturing facilities as well as increase the capacity in particular in some of the international markets where we've seen growth.
China Brazil is just a couple of examples.
So we're looking at making some upgrades there.
From an overall tax rate standpoint for the year the tax rate it ended at about 33.5% and we've been talking more in the 35% range.
And I would say that we're probably a little bit conservative in our outlook earlier in the year and we certainly saw some benefits from the U.S.
production credits and some other I would say expiring reserves that we had.
So I would expect that going forward you'll probably see a rate more in the range of that 34%.
That's probably what you should look at going forward.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And could you give the CapEx expectations or do not? Yes.
The expectation for 2013 will be in that $15 million to $20 million range.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And that's largely capacity expansion plans internationally? Largely capacity and productivity in the manufacturing side.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Mark Banta [ph] of the Kensington Management Group.
Our understanding is that you typically look for acquisitions to be accretive immediately.
Any sense that you might be losing that guideline for the current crop of acquisition targets? Mark I can barely hear you and I heard the question as we in the past have talked about acquisitions being accretive immediately.
Was your question would we waive that guideline? Yes with the current crop of potential acquisition targets might you potentially waive that guideline? I wouldn't say that at this point.
I think that has been a guideline that we've had and I don't think it has dissuaded us from making an acquisition.
We're still looking for acquisitions that are a good synergistic fit with our core businesses and we'll continue to look for those.
I think if something comes along that we think is really worth considering that may be different than that guideline we'd certainly consider it.
But it's not something that I would do right off unless there were some specific reason to from a synergistic fit standpoint.
Okay.
And in terms of the size of the companies that you're currently evaluating could you give us a sense of what size you're looking at now? Well we stated in the past that we're primarily looking for companies that would be in the $15 million [ph] revenue or more range.
That's the size that I think makes the most sense.
We continue to look at smaller product line type acquisitions things that could tuck in.
But from an overall business standpoint I would prefer to be looking at businesses in that $15 million [ph] plus revenue range.
Okay.
And in terms of the synergies that you would be looking for could you give us a sense of what would be some of the acquisition synergies that you're looking for specifically? Some of the preferences that we've had have certainly been in the water area where we've looked at water use type companies companies that would fit well with our technology from a technology standpoint.
We also have considered some that fit in to the infrastructure part of the business.
But seeing that the preference has been in general ones that are in that water use water efficiency category which could include things like pump systems and filters and technologies that would be synergistic with what we do on an irrigation side.
Your next question comes from Steve Yang of Alger Management.
Could you talk about the average age of the irrigation equipments for the areas that you service? And what's sort of the typical replacement cycle? I think your question is what is the average age of the machines that are installed.
And I would say in the United States the -- first of all the equipment will last somewhere between 20 to 30 years.
And I would say that on average we would probably be in that 20 to 25 year range in terms of useful life.
And what we would say is that most of the machines or about half of those are at least in that probably halfway point in terms of useful life about half or more.
So it's a -- we think that the opportunity for replacement is pretty good.
I think that's correct.
And could you delineate your backlog between replacement versus new purchases? The backlog we don't have a split on the backlog in terms of what would be replacement versus new.
As I've said I primarily look at this on an outgoing revenue basis and would say that what we've seen this -- even in this past quarter is about 1/3 of what went out would be replacement equipment 40% would've been to dry land.
Okay.
And then lastly how should I think about falling metal prices impacting your margins? Well steel is 1/3 of our cost of goods sold.
So it's a pretty significant impact in terms of what happens from a pricing standpoint with steel.
And typically when it's rising we're able to pass through increases.
When it's falling it becomes a little trickier.
We tend to hold it as much as we can however competitive situations may dictate changing it.
So I think if the competition will start to make some changes and give back some of the price increase we'd also will follow in order to hold our market share.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to close the call.
Before that operator I just have some closing comments.
For our business overall the global long-term drivers of water conservation population growth increasing importance of biofuel and the need for safer more efficient transportation solutions remain positive.
In addition to the overall business enhancements that have taken place we continue to have an ongoing structured acquisition process that will generate additional growth opportunities throughout the world in water and infrastructure.
Lindsay is committed to achieving earnings growth through global market expansion improvements in margins and strategic acquisitions.
I'd like to thank you for your questions and participation in this call today.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning.
My name is Jody and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which reflect management’s current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer of Lindsay Corporation.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Joining me on today's call are Jim Raabe Lindsay Corporation's Chief Financial Officer; and Lori Zarkowski our Chief Accounting Officer.
First quarter fiscal 2013 revenues of $147.4 million increased 24% from $119.2 million in the same period last year.
Revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 reflected higher demand for domestic irrigation systems stimulated by positive fundamental drivers in the agricultural economy offset by lower infrastructure product demand impacted by government funding issues and project delays.
As drought conditions across the U.S.
pushed commodity prices higher through the summer and fall months the realization of the importance of efficient mechanical irrigation rose creating robust market conditions for irrigation equipment sales during the first quarter.
Net earnings were $14.7 million or $1.15 per diluted share for the quarter compared with $2.9 million or $0.23 per diluted share in the first quarter of prior year.
As a reminder fiscal 2012 operating expenses included $7.2 million or $0.37 per diluted share on an after-tax basis of accrued expenses relating to environmental remediation at the company's Lindsay Nebraska manufacturing facility.
In addition to the sales growth earnings increase was the result of higher irrigation segment gross margins.
Operating margins were driven to 15.1% in the quarter compared to 4.3% in the same quarter last year including the environmental charge.
Irrigation segment revenues totaled $134.2 million in the quarter 33% higher than last year.
Irrigation operating margins improved to 20.5% compared to 9.7% last year including $6.1 million of the $7.2 million environmental charge.
In the U.S.
irrigation market revenues were $96.5 million for the first quarter increasing 59% over the same period last year with the largest increases in the drought-impacted corn belt.
Drought led to lower yields in 2012 at higher commodity prices with corn prices increasing 23% and soybean prices increasing 32% over the same period last year.
Higher prices and drought insurance proceeds are contributing to significantly higher farm income as the USDA forecasted 2012 net farm income to be approximately $114 billion as of November 2012.
This is the second highest on record at 54% above the 10-year average.
During the quarter our distribution channel indicated continued robust demand as growers demonstrated willingness to make investments in irrigation to enhance yields and improve farm income.
The robust U.S.
irrigation equipment order flow also highlighted growers' concern regarding the impact of future dry weather concern over the continuation of IRS Section 179 favorable tax treatment for purchases and concern regarding the ability to get irrigation equipment during the upcoming spring selling season.
In the international markets the irrigation market's revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 decreased 6% to $37.7 million from $40.1 million in the first quarter of last year.
International irrigation equipment revenues were lower due to a comparably high first quarter last year which included a sizable project in the Middle East.
Excluding the Middle East market the international irrigation revenues showed a high single-digit increase over the previous year's quarter.
We continue to see strong quoting and ordering activity in our international irrigation markets including increased interest in potentially large projects in Russia.
As we've noted in the past many of our international irrigation markets experience volatility from period to period as they tend to be project-based.
Infrastructure segment revenues were $13.2 million decreasing $5.3 million or 29% from the first quarter of last year.
Lower sales were realized in road safety products Road Zipper systems and railroad products.
The infrastructure segment generated an operating loss of $1.3 million compared to a loss of $1.2 million last year with $5.3 million less revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 reflecting improvement from the significant expense reductions made in the business segment.
Infrastructure demand including Road Zipper system projects have proven to be challenging due to funding issues and project delays.
We've recently been told that the long-awaited Golden Gate Bridge project has entered the final design stage which is anticipated to be completed and result in award of the project during this summer slightly behind our timing expectations.
While the recovery of our infrastructure segment is taking longer than initially expected we remain confident that the infrastructure segment will return to profitability but timing will now primarily be driven by improvements in market demand.
Recent passage of a highway bill through 2014 should provide a modest improvement in market demand in coming quarters.
Gross profit was $42.9 million or 29.1% of sales for the first quarter versus $30.2 million or 25.4% in the same quarter last year.
Irrigation gross margins increased approximately 4 percentage points due to a combination of lower input costs favorable pricing environment and fixed cost leverage on higher sales.
Infrastructure gross margins decreased approximately 4 percentage points due to unfavorable sales mix and deleverage of fixed costs over a lower sales base.
Operating expenses in the first quarter decreased by $4.6 million or $22 -- $20.6 million.
The decrease in operating expenses is primarily related to the prior year's expense accrual of $7.2 million for environmental remediation partially offset by current period increases in R&amp;D expense of $1.1 million and personnel-related expenses of $1.1 million.
Operating expenses as a percentage of sales improved to 14% for the quarter compared to 21.1% for the same period last year inclusive of the $7.2 million environmental charge.
Our order backlog was $85.1 million on November 30 2012 as compared to $52.8 million on November 30 2011 and $57.1 million on August 31 2012.
Irrigation backlog was significantly higher than a year ago led by U.S.
irrigation order strength while infrastructure backlog is lower.
U.S.
irrigation equipment orders remained robust throughout the quarter reflecting growers' willingness to invest and their concern regarding the potential impacts of dry weather.
Approximately 47% of the domestic irrigation orders received during the quarter were designated by the customer as for dryland installation further indicating concern over dry weather and water availability.
We believe the irrigation equipment backlog represents pulling forward some volume at least in part from the second half of fiscal 2013.
However it is difficult to estimate that effect at this time and the upcoming U.S.
spring selling season will be regulated by conditions that exist at that time including farmer sentiment.
Cash and cash equivalents of $152 million were $43 million higher compared with last year while debt decreased $4.3 million over the same period.
Accounts receivable were $12.2 million higher year-over-year due to higher sales and inventories increased $9.6 million with improved inventory turns.
Our primary uses of cash remain investing in organic growth opportunities while continuing to seek accretive acquisitions that add new businesses and/or product lines.
We continue to expect capital expenditures in 2013 to be approximately $15 million to $20 million largely focused on manufacturing capacity expansion and productivity improvements.
In summary it was a record first quarter for Lindsay Corporation in revenue and earnings.
Irrigation sales and profits have experienced year-over-year increases driven by positive farmer sentiment toward capital investments increased farm incomes and concern over past and future impacts of dry weather conditions.
In the near term we're optimistic that increased commodity prices and projected higher farm income will translate into continued strong irrigation equipment demand.
However it's still too early to predict sales factors for the upcoming primary selling season.
We're pleased with the company-wide operating margin gains over the first quarter of last year even as we've continued to -- continued higher levels of investment in irrigation segment in product development and market participation plans in international markets.
We're pleased with the operational improvements in the infrastructure segment but this business remains in the cyclical trough.
Improvements that have taken place in the segment have included enhanced pricing management cost reductions and SG&amp;A expense reductions.
While we believe the underlying demand for road safety and improved infrastructure will rebound in the long term current spending levels on highway and other infrastructure projects continue to be an impediment to our infrastructure segment recovery.
As we proceed through 2013 drought conditions experienced this past year have reinforced the importance of efficient water use for yield enhancement preservation and at the same time driven commodity prices higher improving irrigation equipment demand.
We are confident that the key drivers to our business are favorable and that over the long term increase in agricultural yields to boost food supply improving water use efficiency biofuel production and improving transportation infrastructure will remain global priorities.
I would now like to open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Nathan Jones from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Richard Hall on for Nathan Jones this morning.
My first question relates to domestic irrigation.
You mentioned that the corn belt region of the U.S.
is pretty strong.
Could you go into a little more detail about the other regions in the U.S.
where the relative pockets of strength and weaknesses were? I think it would be fair to say that all of the regions across the U.S.
were pretty strong.
We saw most regions increase.
We saw the highest percentages of the increase through the corn belt region but there weren't really any regions that I would say were down in any sense.
So there may have been a few ups and downs due to some order flow in the first quarter versus fourth quarter but nothing that really stood out as anything significant.
I'd say it's primarily -- if you look at the sales by region you can see the impact of the drought and the increases in those drought areas.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Awesome.
And then my second question is can you give us a sense I'm talking about domestic irrigation again in terms of revenues the split between entire pivot systems versus parts maybe what that split was and how that's changed over the last year or so and if either has been particularly stronger than the other? We don't split out our parts revenue specifically Richard but we have said in the past that we estimate that the parts market for irrigation equipment is roughly about 15% of let's say whole goods sales from an industry perspective.
And I think that's the way to think about it is it typically would run in that level.
There will be times quarter to quarter that will change depending on the specific time of the year where farmers may be trying to get parts in advance of the season but typically over the year that's kind of the range that we would see.
Our next question comes from the line of Brett Wong from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering if you could provide any more specific breakdown of the backlog on a percentage basis just in terms of what is domestic irrigation international irrigation infrastructure? I really can't provide more breakdown on the backlog.
The only comment I would add to it is that majority of the backlog would be domestic irrigation at this time of the year.
We have seen increases in our international irrigation backlog but the majority of the backlog would be domestic.
And as I commented the infrastructure backlog is down some.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then can you provide any color on the geographic concentration of the backlog? Are you seeing any increases in the southern states in the U.S.
at all? I would say that we have seen increases in the southern states in terms of our order flow in the last year or so particularly in some of the Southeast region.
But in terms of the backlog specifically I don't have that information and we don't break that out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last question.
In December kind of outside of this quarter of course but did you experience kind of higher orders than you typically do because of the thought to be expiring beneficial tax policy? It's very hard to define the specific cause of the December order rate being higher and it was high.
But as we talked to growers there were a number of factors that were driving that.
One was certainly the concern about the drought.
There was concern about being able to get machines at the peak of the next season.
There were concerns about what was going to happen with Section 179 and really concern about just getting water to apply for their crops for this next season in areas where primarily dryland application.
So it was difficult to really differentiate any one as standing out but I would say historically as we've come to the end of the calendar year we haven't really seen significant pops due to Section 179 and as it turned out this year really whatever would have happened in terms of driving Section 179 it really didn't make much difference because it was extended.
Our next question comes from the line of Schon Williams from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could just comment about why you specifically mentioned the pull-forward in demand.
Was there any pricing that went in prior to the end of the calendar year? I'm just trying to think of why do you think that you maybe pulling orders forward.
What I see in the numbers Schon tells me that -- one is we've seen a high level of sales in dryland applications and what we're seeing is the farmers are very concerned about drought and the potential future impact of more drought or dry weather.
So they're obviously pulling forward to some degree some of those applications that we think eventually would take place anyway whether it was later this year or next year the year after whatever.
Some of those dryland areas we do believe irrigation would get added so there's some pull-forward from that standpoint.
And in terms of the potential pull-forward into the second half -- potential pull-forward the second half of '13 it's really looking at a perspective of we know that farmers have expressed some concern about being able to get the equipment at the peak of the season.
And we don't really know to what extent that's driving some demand but we could see some of that in the order numbers that we've seen to date.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just anything in terms of pricing can you talk about any new pricing or what the environment is currently? I think as the irrigation margins have shown the pricing -- certainly the irrigation margins were up so the irrigation margins were showing positive impact.
It was a combination of lower input cost some lower steel price and a favorable pricing environment and we've seen that through this past quarter.
So there was nothing that was driving pricing to let's say be attractive that would pull through any volume.
I would say it was a good pricing environment because the demand has been robust.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one more here.
Could you just talk about what you envision for infrastructure for 2013? I mean obviously the Golden Gate project sounds like it may be pushed into fiscal Q4 now versus fiscal Q3.
I'm just wondering should we take in what has been a soft start to the year? I mean is that the level that you kind of see this kind of base demand at or is there something that tells you that base demand is getting better in the back half of the year comes excluding that Golden Gate project? I'd characterize it as the -- first quarter really doesn't tell us a lot about what will happen with the infrastructure business segment as this is typically a pretty low quarter anyway in terms of road safety products and some of the other products.
I would expect that we'll see some pick up certainly in the season more in the summer months spring and summer months in terms of the road safety products.
I think it's definitely in a trough at this stage as I said in the comments.
I think it's at the trough cycle at this point.
Until we start to see more government spending more infrastructure spending loosen up it's hard to see the infrastructure business getting much stronger.
At the same time we still have good demand interest in our QMB system our Road Zipper systems and the Golden Gate Bridge project is probably likely to be delayed a little.
We expected to see more of an order and some potential shipments in the fourth quarter.
It could flow into 2014.
But at this stage none of it is a sure thing even the -- I wouldn't call the Golden Gate Bridge project a sure thing in any way so they're all questionable as projects until we actually see the order.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Drab from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> So my first question is around the pull-forward and you've mentioned this dynamic where farmers may be concerned that they're not going to be able to get equipment during the peak selling season.
Can you give us a sense for -- last year during the peak selling season in your third quarter of fiscal 2012 you did about $150 million in revenue in the irrigation segment.
When you're running at $150 million of revenue what level of capacity utilization are you at? And can you talk a little bit about how you calculate that in terms of how many shifts and what you can do to -- what's the maximum level of revenue that you could squeeze out of the operation as it is today? And where were you last year in terms of capacity utilization? I want to answer that question a little bit differently and I'd look at it from this past quarter perspective and you can see the sales numbers for the first quarter.
During the quarter we were running at a pretty high level of capacity and relatively close to our practical capacity for a domestic manufacturing level.
And what that caused was our lead times pushed out which we would typically see say 2 to 3 weeks on a lead time is out to 6 to 8 weeks right now in terms of lead time on orders coming in.
Now when I look at it on a global basis we have much more capacity in terms of -- we may be in the 65% to 70% of capacity with opportunities to add more and we're adding capital investment to expand capacity.
Even domestically we can add capacity that becomes more adding of manual processes and outsourcing more.
Whether it's outside galvanizing or purchasing more components we can handle larger volume if it's in the production schedule and forecast and we have some lead time on that.
The difficulty in what we saw in the past quarter is that the order flow was very robust very strong and we'd love to see that.
It wasn't necessarily forecasted.
It was higher than what we expected.
So there were times when it was difficult to keep up with that from a order production standpoint not necessarily a real practical capacity standpoint.
I think our manufacturing operation did a fantastic job of managing through and getting out the orders that they did and really having multiple sources and components and being able to keep the component supply moving.
So I wouldn't put a cap on our capacity at this point Brian.
I would say that we certainly were stretched a bit during this past quarter and as we go forward I think we have opportunities to continually raise our domestic and our global capacity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And whenever analysts hear the term pull-forward it indicates that there will be sales -- or pressure on sales maybe in the quarters where the sales were pulled from but it feels more like the case here is that sales were pulled forward maybe because people are just so concerned that it's going to be tough to get equipment and you're not really making a statement on weaker sales in the back half of the year.
It seems like you still have the opportunity -- or you still perceive the opportunity for increase in sales in the back half of the fiscal year in the irrigation segment even if you have this pull-forward.
Is that fair? Yes.
I would characterize this as somewhat cautioning.
I'm looking at the backlog number and extrapolating that out to sales numbers for the next couple of quarters because I do believe that there is some things in those numbers that would reflect that there are some farmers that have placed orders in advance than they normally would because of concern about either drought or concern about the ability to get to the orders in the shorter lead times that they've seen in the past.
So that's -- it's a caution about not going too far out with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then do you have any visibility then to some of the projects internationally that are going to occur this year and comparing that with projects that occurred last year? Or do you have some difficult comparisons coming up again in international in sort of balance of the fiscal year? I'm not really -- I can't think of any real difficult comparisons coming up.
I think that I'm very optimistic about some of the potential projects that we see on the table today and that we're having discussions on -- whether it's in Russia or other international markets.
And I think that the international markets still have more upside than what we saw in the first quarter.
But in terms of any difficult comparables I'm not really -- nothing really comes to mind on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Connors from Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> You spent a lot of focus on the dryland conversion obviously because of the drought and I wonder if you could comment Rick a little bit on the replacement side.
I mean there's a replacement cycle story here in some of the more established pivot regions like Nebraska and in theory those farmers did real well that are already -- or operating pivots did real well this year also.
So is that business up as well and to what extent? And what's your view of the contribution of the replacement cycle to the growth opportunity? Certainly the replacement piece of business is extremely important going forward and as we're building this installed base that replacement business is building as well.
And I think in this past quarter we've seen pretty still good replacement level.
And I think approximately 30% of the machines that were sold were for replacement.
About 23% then would have been conversion from flood or gravity to pivot so that was a lower percentage.
So I'd say that the replacement market is holding up quite well and obviously it's building at a pretty good rate.
Research Division</strong> Then why would you think that the flood conversion would be declining in this environment? Because one would think that it's more important than ever given the drought conditions to make most efficient use of a water resource.
I do agree in terms of its level of importance and the level of opportunity there.
I probably would not characterize it Ryan as decreasing.
I would just say on a percentage basis dryland was such a significant -- dryland expansion was such a significant percentage in the quarter and that was driven by the high commodity prices the concern over the drought and water availability.
But that really overshadowed some of the let's say the ongoing conversion that's taking place.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know you mentioned it in your prepared remarks but I just want to revisit it because balance sheet is really -- you're generating so much cash and obviously you're pretty much out of debt.
So is there -- what's the urgency level to -- is there a timeline in your head that if we don't see something compelling on the M&amp;A side the next say 6 to 9 months that there would be a consideration of a buyback or something like that? Because obviously you're really building up cash here.
Yes we are and we do give serious consideration to buybacks and special dividends and our dividend rate and all of those other factors.
And as we looked just recently we believe that the company has many active acquisition candidates very interesting some of significant size.
Well I wouldn't put a time frame on the closure of any of those because it's very difficult to speculate on it.
I would say it's certainly an important activity and one where we believe that could potentially be the best use of cash outside of some of our more short-term organic uses.
But we do consider share buyback and certainly any other use of cash anything to generate returns for shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Is there a certain level a round number where -- as big a deal as you'd like to go? In other words would you be hesitant to do a deal over $100 million or $50 million or is there any rule of thumb in your head in those terms? I would say that we've looked at many sizes of deals initially.
I would say probably 6 months ago I stated that we were looking for deals of $50 million or more.
I would say we've looked at deals in the $100 million and $150 million.
I'm not ruling out anything in that larger size parameter as well.
We'd like to see some $50 million acquisitions however they are hard to find and some of those are a little tougher.
But we are seeing some bigger ones that also make a lot of sense for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Shaw from Monness Crespi.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to ask a question around pricing again.
It sounds like it was up year-over-year.
I know typically I think in the past when the input cost deal has come down that pricing somewhat follows that.
Because of the demand this year is that not happening or do you see that happening later in the year? I would characterize it as that's what's happened during the first quarter is that demand was very robust and while steel prices did pull back a little bit there were some opportunities for margin improvement there.
We did not see the giveback from our competition in terms of pricing as we have seen in the past.
Our hope certainly would be that would hold.
Steel tends to have kind of flattened out at this point.
We'd like to hold on to the position that we have but that's been the case through the quarter.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I know in the past you've mentioned I think area -- traditional irrigation areas like Texas that have I think been somewhat drought-prone for a number of years now being a little -- growing slower or being flat.
I mean was that the case again this quarter or is that that the areas like that are picking up as well? I don't know specifically on Texas.
To be honest I didn't look at that specifically.
I would say that what we saw as Texas had a couple of years of drought is we did see in the early stages of it some increases in sales of equipment just back a couple of years ago now.
And then as water became in shorter supply and more of a problem the sales dropped off in Texas and I can't speak specifically what happened during this last quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Mondillo from Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of questions.
In terms of the gross margins I know we covered pricing but you mentioned that of the 400 basis points that was sort of based on the lower input cost pricing and the higher volume leverage could you just talk about the contribution to each of those? Was it sort of evenly spread amongst 3 or...
Yes Joe this is Jim.
And pretty evenly a little bit more on the input cost and the pricing and a little bit less on the leverage but pretty evenly overall.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then obviously one of the drivers amongst this whole sort of trend with the drought and dryland the irrigated has to do with the yield obviously.
Could you just talk about sort of this year this past historical dry year what sort of the difference between irrigated and nonirrigated yields? I don't have the specific yield data in terms of irrigated versus nonirrigated.
It's been difficult to try and get a handle on it.
But we've seen very very wide ranges in corn production in irrigated versus nonirrigated depending on regions where you could see farms side by side with yields that could be almost nothing -- 25 30 bushel per acre next to one that's irrigated that could be in the high 200s bushels per acre.
That was not unusual to see during this past season depending on the region and the part of the country.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly the QMB revenue a year ago compared to this year could you give us some color on that? Well we don't split out QMB specifically in our infrastructure segment revenues.
We do see times however when infrastructure -- or the QMB as we're now trying to call more frequently the Road Zipper system sales will be in the 15% of infrastructure sales to 50% and sometimes even higher and it was towards the lower end.
So the QMB or Road Zipper system sales were pretty low-end in the infrastructure segment revenues this past quarter.
LLC</strong> And of that range what was -- just trying to get an idea what the comparison year-over-year was so a year ago? A year ago it was more in that 20% to 25%.
Your next question comes from the line of David Rose from Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I do have a couple of follow-ups.
I was wondering if you can talk a little bit about some of the constraints you had in the quarter and how you expect those to play out in the second quarter? More specifically we're looking at some lead times as much at 3 months from what I picked up.
How are you managing that with your suppliers? And I think you touched upon a little bit of it but maybe you can go in a little bit more detail.
And then secondly if we can go to the infrastructure business just more specifically what's driving the reduction in your QMB leasing? Why customers are going away sorry.
In terms of the lead times David I'd say that what we saw is our lead times have stretched from 2 to 3 weeks to about 6 to 8 weeks out so it's not hugely significant.
But large part of that comes down to the forecasts that are made and then manufacturing to that production forecast and that production cycle.
So our manufacturing group has done a great job in terms of continually modifying that cycle -- or the forecast rather based on the new information that's coming in and as the orders have come in.
And those orders have continually exceeded the forecast through that first quarter.
The manufacturing team was constantly trying to either expedite some of the materials coming in the purchased components and expediting some of the manufacturing processes.
The first quarter would typically be a very low quarter for us.
We were running at a relatively high level of production with high level of employment at the domestic factory in order to keep up with that.
They've done a great job in terms of managing through it.
Now when you get to constraints the constraints would be primarily the forecast visibility plus the supplier delivery times.
And I would say our suppliers have also done a great job in responding to our needs.
And we have in almost every case multiple suppliers so we have choices there.
You also looked and noticed that our balance sheet -- on our balance sheet that our inventory is higher and part of that would consist of decisions we've made to carry more inventory to support this higher level of production run.
So from that standpoint some of the constraints we're dealing with by carrying higher inventory.
Research Division</strong> So under that scenario as a follow-up does that imply that margins can improve given that you're better prepared than you were in the first quarter? I mean imagine that there was some disruption.
You worked overtime as you mentioned.
And now you've ordered ahead of time.
There's probably less service cost issues with respect to customers.
So does that provide upside to margins for the irrigation business? There's certainly -- the higher level of productivity that we can run obviously has some -- does enhance margins but there's other factors that come into play.
One of those is certainly steel cost input cost.
It can be steel and zinc and steel is certainly the most important one.
In terms of what costs they are at -- and then also pricing and really what our competitors do from a pricing standpoint.
So those are often more important than what happens from a productivity standpoint in the factory.
However there are opportunities to improve productivity as we can improve our manufacturing efficiency with greater visibility or less interruption by having stock on hand but it doesn't really tell the whole story because the additions of the input cost plus the pricing from competition are significant in that formula.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'm sorry lastly given your ability to project I mean what you've done to manage the unexpected increase in volumes you prepared yourself for this period but you have to think longer term I imagine.
Can you talk about CapEx expenditures and what you're thinking in terms of plant expansion in 2014 or '15? Well as I mentioned in the comments earlier we plan to spend roughly $15 million to $20 million in CapEx this year.
A lot of that CapEx would go into some of our international plant expansion and we see opportunities to expand those international factories which reduces their cost of production also add some capacity which could also in some instances offload from the U.S.
manufacturing plant as well for some of our export products.
So we do anticipate investing in capacity expansion.
Now that doesn't rule out some capacity expansion in the U.S.
operation however I'd say more of that tends to be smaller-type items and we can expand our capacity quicker by adding some more manual processes in the domestic operations.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Andrew O'Conor from BMO Asset Management.
In light of your prior comments Rick can you better quantify or dissect irrigation equipment demand for the first quarter and then what you see for the full year '13 between first-time buyers and existing or repeat irrigation equipment customers? So I may have missed this.
Again can you better dissect irrigation equipment demand between first-time buyers and repeat irrigation equipment customers? Well thanks for your question.
It is a good question however I don't have that information to really be able to dissect and we have not in the past dissected that in terms of the type of buyers.
I would say that we've seen definite interests from new buyers.
When we're looking at the dryland percentage that would indicate to me in other words the 47% of systems going out into dryland it's going to be a combination of our existing customers who are expanding their irrigation installation and new customers who are probably putting in irrigation for the first time.
But outside of that I really can't characterize or dissect any further for you.
So simply Rick would it be more of one than the other more first-time buyers as opposed to repeat buyers here for the next few quarters or...
Honestly Andrew I can't get to that level of detail.
I don't have that information.
You do have a follow-up question from the line of David Rose from Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up on the QMB question I had.
Is there some clarity as to why that we're seeing some existing customers that were leasing the QMB equipment not repeat their purchases? Is it some budget issues? Maybe you can provide a little bit more color.
From the indications that I've seen and have I would say I think that the QMB leasing is down primarily because of the road construction projects being less.
And as we see road construction projects increase I would expect we will see more of the Zipper system or QMB leasing take place as well.
I also think there are some issues where in some cases we did see contractors on leasing projects that did pull back from -- in terms of cost savings from leasing the systems but I don't think that's a long-term issue.
I think that's a short-term budgetary issue.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will now turn the conference back over to Mr.
Parod for closing remarks.
For our business overall the global long-term drivers of water conservation population growth increasing importance of biofuels and the need for safer more efficient transportation solutions remain very positive.
In addition to the overall business enhancements that have taken place we recognize our strong cash position and are focused on seeking and executing against acquisition objectives that will generate additional growth opportunities.
Lindsay is committed to achieving earnings growth through global market expansion improvements in margins and strategic acquisitions.
I'd like to thank you for your questions and participation in this call.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jessica and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which reflect management’s current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Joining me on today's call are Jim Raabe Lindsay Corporation's Chief Financial Officer; and Lori Zarkowski our Chief Accounting Officer.
Total revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2013 were a record $175.5 million increasing 33% from $132.1 million in the same period last year.
Revenues in the second quarter of fiscal 2013 reflected higher demand for domestic irrigation systems stimulated by positive drivers in the agricultural economy and lower demand for infrastructure products impacted by government funding issues and project delays.
As last year's drought conditions across the U.S.
pushed commodity prices higher the recognition of the importance of the efficient mechanical irrigation rose creating robust demand for irrigation equipment in the current fiscal year.
Operating margins were driven to 16.8% in the quarter compared to 14.3% in the same quarter last year.
Net earnings were $19.4 million or $1.50 per diluted share compared with $12.8 million or $1 per diluted share in the prior year.
Total revenues for the first 6 months of fiscal 2013 were a record $322.9 million increasing 28% from the same period last year.
Net earnings were a record $34.1 million or $2.65 per diluted share as compared to $15.7 million or $1.23 per diluted share in the prior year.
As a reminder the prior year results included a $7.2 million accrual for environmental remediation at our Lindsay Nebraska facility which lowered earnings by $0.37 per share.
For the irrigation segment sales totaled $162.6 million in the quarter 39% higher than last year.
Irrigation operating margins improved to 21.7% compared to 19.7% last year.
In the U.S.
irrigation market revenues were $117.1 million for the second quarter increasing 41% over the same period last year with the largest increases in the corn belt which was the geographic area most significantly impacted by drought conditions.
U.S.
irrigation equipment orders remained robust throughout the quarter reflecting growers' willingness to invest and their concern regarding the potential impact of dry weather.
Additionally approximately 54% of the domestic irrigation orders received during the quarter were designated by the customer as for dryland installation up from the previous quarter of 47% in a typical year of less than 40% further signaling concern over dry weather and water availability.
Farm commodity prices remained relatively high through most of the quarter and continued to support positive farmer sentiment.
As of February 2013 the USDA forecasted 2013 net farm income to be approximately $128.2 billion.
This would be the highest on record at 73% higher than the 10-year average.
In the international irrigation markets revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2013 were $45.5 million increasing 34% over the same quarter of last year.
Revenues increased most notably in South America Russia and the Middle East.
We continued to see strong order activity in our international irrigation markets and believe these markets will generate long-term growth.
During the quarter we also received an award of a $39 million contract in the Middle East consisting of irrigation machines and ancillary equipment demonstrating success and further building our position in the international market.
No revenue was recognized on that contract in the second quarter and we expect to recognize most -- all of the revenue on the contract during the remainder of fiscal 2013 and a small amount in early fiscal 2014.
For the first 6 months of fiscal 2013 total irrigation segment revenue increased 36% to $296.9 million.
In the U.S.
irrigation markets revenues were $213.6 million rising 49% over the previous year.
In the international markets revenues were $83.3 million increasing 12% over the previous year with most of the significant increases in South America Russia and Canada.
Infrastructure segment revenues were $12.9 million decreasing 15% from the second quarter of last year primarily due to lower sales contract manufacturing and Road Zipper system sales.
The infrastructure segment generated an operating loss of $2.1 million compared to a loss of $1 million in the second quarter of last year due to unfavorable mix and amortizing costs over a lower sales base.
Infrastructure demand including for the Road Zipper system project has continued to be challenging this year due to constricted government funding and project delays.
For the first 6 months of fiscal 2013 infrastructure revenues decreased 23% to $26 million from the -- with the largest revenue decrease in Road Zipper systems and road safety products.
The recent passage of a Highway Bill through 2014 should provide a modest improvement environment in the coming quarters.
However sales continue to be constrained by longer-term funding uncertainty.
While the recovery of this segment is taking longer than expected we remain confident that the infrastructure segment will return to profitability and will -- and we will continue to implement initiatives to strengthen and grow the business overall.
Gross profit was $50.4 million or 28.7% of sales for the second quarter versus $36.5 million or 27.6% in the same quarter of last year driven by higher irrigation segment margins.
Irrigation gross margins increased approximately 1 percentage point due to a favorable pricing environment combined with increased productivity and lower input costs.
Infrastructure segment gross margins decreased approximately 4% -- 4 percentage points due to unfavorable sales mix for lower Road Zipper system revenues amortization of fixed cost over lower sales and certain period costs absorbed within the quarter.
Operating expenses in the second quarter increased by $3.4 million to $20.9 million.
Increased incentive compensation in staffing to support growth were $1.8 million of the increase.
Operating expenses as a percentage of sales decreased to 11.9% for the quarter compared to 13.3% for the same period last year reflecting a significant operating leverage.
The order backlog increased to a record $159.3 million on February 28 2013 as compared to $85.1 million on November 30 2012 and $87.3 million on February 29 2012.
Our current backlog includes strong domestic irrigation volume along with the $39 million irrigation contract in the Middle East.
The current infrastructure backlog is equal to the same time last year and is higher than at the end of the previous quarter.
Overall we believe the existing backlog and order trends will support strong sales in the third quarter.
However we continue to see evidence of a pull-forward in irrigation equipment orders in anticipation of dry weather and possible water restrictions.
In addition the USDA is projecting increases in planted acres and higher crop yields which is resulting in projections for lower crop prices.
Together these factors could translate into slowing U.S.
irrigation equipment demand towards the end of fiscal 2013 and into 2014.
Cash and cash equivalents of $160 million were $55 million higher than the same time last year while debt decreased $4.3 million over the same period.
Accounts receivables were $27.9 million higher year-over-year due to higher sales and our DSO increased 1 day.
Inventories increased $9.5 million to support higher sales volumes while inventory turns improved.
Our primary uses of cash remain investing in organic growth opportunities while continuing to seek accretive acquisitions that add new businesses and/or product lines.
We continue to expect capital expenditures in 2013 to be approximately $15 million to $20 million largely focused on manufacturing capacity expansion and productivity improvements.
In summary it was a record second quarter in revenue orders backlog and earnings.
Irrigation sales and profits have experienced year-over-year increases driven by positive farmer sentiment towards capital investments increased farm income and concern over the past and potential future impact of dry weather conditions.
Record backlog at the end of the quarter resulted from continued robust irrigation order volumes along with the award of a large contract in the Middle East.
I'm especially pleased with our irrigation production team and their ability to continually find new ways to step up production to meet the needs of our customers.
In the near term we are optimistic that our backlog and the projected higher farm income will translate into continued strong irrigation equipment revenue.
However projections for lower commodity prices could lead to reduced demand over the balance of 2013 and into 2014.
Government spending on highway and other infrastructure projects continues to be an impediment to our infrastructure segment.
We believe the underlying demand for road safety and improved infrastructure will rebound in the long term although the timing is uncertain.
We continue to focus on operating efficiencies lean manufacturing and expense control.
And we believe we are better positioned for margin improvement when market conditions strengthen.
We're confident that the key drivers to our business are favorable and that over the long term increasing agricultural yields to boost food supply improving water efficiency biofuel production and improving transportation infrastructure will remain global priorities.
I would now like to open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Cox.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the Golden Gate project.
Can you maybe give us a sense for how you expect it to flow through? And I know that some of it is a bit out of your control but if you can maybe frame up like percentage of the project in the next -- over the next couple of quarters? Well Mike I think the way I would characterize the Golden Gate project is as we've talked about the previous quarters we expect that -- have expected that you would see this really culminate into an order or start to see this towards the end of this fiscal year sometime this summer or early fall.
That's still our expectation and the latest update that we've had has indicated that it would probably be in that timeframe.
However how long that will take in terms of execution of it or what that will consist of at this point we really don't know.
But we still anticipate this project will take place and it -- we'll start to see something in late summer or early fall.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
In terms of the pull-forward of demand are there specific areas domestically that you're seeing I guess geographically that sort of pull forward? Or are you -- is it really broad-based across geographies? Well I think the way to think about it is the largest increases in demand we've seen in the U.S.
has been across the corn belt and I would say that's very significantly in the Western states.
We've seen it -- and somewhat in the Eastern part of it but I'd say a little more in the West.
And we've heard anecdotally from growers and from dealers that some of the demand is being driven by concern about potential additional drought or future drought in terms of whether this will be alleviated this spring also about potential water restrictions meaning they're trying to get the machines in I guess in anticipation that there could be water restrictions that could cause delays in the future.
But I'd say that the general pull-forward we're seeing is pretty broad.
And I think you can look at it in terms of pull-forward in terms of water restrictions and pull-forward in terms of the anticipation of a potential drought.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess one last question on -- you called out Russia as an area of strength.
Could you comment a little bit about the subsidy program that's in place there and what that could mean for your opportunity in Russia and maybe spilling over into other parts of Eastern Europe? Yes.
As we've discussed in the past there have been announcements from the government in Russia about subsidies.
And subsidies have been discussed in terms of paying up to as much as 50% of the cost of the equipment.
And I think it's quite varied in terms of how we will see that play out by whole blocks or regions.
And we haven't really seen much of the activity in Russia today driven by those subsidies.
And to our knowledge it really -- that isn't driving the volume pick-up that we've seen.
We've seen more of that is being driven in terms of large projects with either financial institutions or investors that see the opportunities for expanding yield and profitability by adding efficient irrigation more so than the benefits of the subsidies.
And we believe that's still to come.
Your next question comes from the line of Nathan Jones.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Richard Hall on for Nathan Jones.
Just a few questions.
First regarding the $39 million Middle East contract do you plan on shipping this product evenly throughout the first half? Or do you think the third quarter will be significantly different than the fourth quarter? And then second in your press release you called out that projects of this nature typically have lower gross margins.
Could you give us any help on the pricing dynamic of this project and maybe quantify I mean I guess how well you think the gross margin will be? Well I think first I would say it'd be hard for me to specifically define how this will ship out between the third and the fourth quarter.
I would say that the bulk of it will ship between the 2 quarters probably fairly evenly with a little bit going into the first quarter of next year.
In terms of the margin piece of this part of what I would want to describe is that since it consists of irrigation equipment and ancillary components and the ancillary equipments are typically buyout-type things the margins on that would be lower because of that mix.
And also it is obviously was let's say a contract that was -- a particular bid-type contract that would have been more competitive but it's more driven by the fact that it consists of a product we make rather than buy out.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Okay.
And my last question moving more to domestic irrigation.
There's definitely a commentary out there that lead times have I guess extended out to pretty record lengths depending where you are in the country.
And so I'm just looking for any kind of commentary about cash and utilization in your irrigation facilities and of course that's panned out right now how that's trended over the last couple of months.
I would describe it as during the quarter we definitely ran at a pretty high level of capacity in certain -- and at times that are practical capacity level particularly our Lindsay Nebraska facility our primary U.S.
irrigation facility.
Our lead times are probably in the 6- to 8-week time period right now and probably a little more towards that 8-week time period but in that general range.
It's higher certainly than we like.
But I would say that our manufacturing operations as I've commented I've been very pleased with how that team has performed and that they continue to set new levels and new records in terms of their production levels.
So they're able to ramp up and continue to find ways to add additional capacity in various ways and LEAN has been a big part of that to meet the needs of the customers.
So I would say that we've done an outstanding job and the teams have done an outstanding job of meeting those needs.
Your next question comes from the line of Schon Williams.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could just address maybe the growth rates that we've seen in irrigation I mean certainly outpacing some of the commentary that I'm hearing from dealers and some of your competitors.
I just wonder what you attribute the significant outpacing versus the rest of the industry what do you attribute that to? Is that the dealer network? Is that the geographic mix? What are the things that you would kind of highlight as differentiators versus your competition? I think there's a combination of things that could contribute to outpacing in terms of how you would look at it from -- in comparison to others or in comparison to the market perspective.
I do believe that we've made significant strides in our international markets and I think projects like this one in the Middle East represent that.
I think we're seeing progress in areas like Russia where we haven't had much happen in the past and we've anticipated it but we're really starting to see that open up and take off.
And I think in the domestic markets we've seen significant progress with our dealer network in terms of improvements with our dealer network.
I also believe our differentiating in terms of the Lindsay advantage of the product and the FieldNET offering and the offering in terms of the engineering through IRZ and the ezWireless broadband communications and Watertronics pump stations and the turn-key systems have also played a role in all of this.
So I think all of those factors would contribute to a success that we're seeing in the market.
Whether that outpaces the market or outpaces the competition I'm really not going to comment on specifically because from quarter-to-quarter we can see differences in terms of what one competitor will do versus another based on where these sales will take place.
But I would say that I'm pleased with the progress we're making with those factors in terms of differentiating the product line and our offering and our dealer network.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to switch gears maybe to infrastructure.
I mean in the past I think you've talked about fiscal 2012 as -- I want to say that you called last year kind of the -- almost a bottom or a trough for infrastructure.
And then the first half of this year we've not seen much improvement in fact deterioration in terms of profitability.
I mean at what point should we start to see a turn in that infrastructure business? I mean it sounds like you may see a modest catalyst from the Highway Bill but what is it that you're looking for in terms of the macro environment that we should be looking for in order for -- to see a turn there? And when and if can you get that business kind of breakeven at current volumes? Just some of your thoughts there.
Well in terms of the specific of when we could see a turn would be very difficult to define.
And I can't tell you specifically when we will see that market turn.
I would describe it as it's taking longer than what I expected.
We expected that we would see more of that change take place this year.
And I would say that the Highway Bill funding that's put in place hasn't quite satisfied the need in terms of little more long-term stability that many of the states would like to see.
But I think it will be beneficial.
I think we will see this spring some improvements in terms of road safety type opportunities and road safety type product sales as more work is taking place.
But I do think that it's going to still take a while longer than I thought it would to see that market expand.
Now that leads us to also evaluate where we are in terms of the cost structure of the business.
And I would agree with you I felt that we were near the bottom at the end of last year or even in the previous quarter.
But it's still a struggle there.
And at the operating level that it's at from a revenue standpoint it is a difficult level because it doesn't allow for leveraging of fixed expenses.
So we will continue to as we have in the past reassess look at what we need to do in terms of cost reductions or margin improvements in terms of the efficiencies and those types of things and continue to look for ways to improve this business.
On the other hand I'm still very convinced that the long-term opportunities for this business are excellent.
And the long-term opportunities for the QMB Road Zipper system is excellent and we have expanded our sales effort in terms of selling to potentially 2 areas where they really don't have the knowledge or exposure of this product.
And we're trying to build that knowledge and exposure to create the opportunity so it takes awhile.
So we would expect that those in these other countries will come in time but it's going to take a little while in terms of developing that market.
Research Division</strong> And when you look further out Rick do you still envision that business still being kind of a I don't know at a mid-teens operating margin? I mean is that still plausible if the market works in your favor? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Berman.
This is Josh in for Brian Drab.
So first thing the backlog of 87% sequentially and then it looks like 41% even if you take out the Middle Eastern project is it safe to assume revenue in the third quarter will be up versus the second quarter both in domestic irrigation and overall? Yes this is Jim Raabe.
And we don't provide specific quarterly or annual guidance but certainly the backlog will contribute significantly to what we'll see in the third quarter.
It is typically the seasonal highpoint for us.
And so we would normally expect to see some increase between second and third quarter.
And certainly the Middle East project will contribute some to the fourth quarter as well.
So certainly backlog is going to contribute to the volume in those periods.
Got it.
And then so just -- can you give some perspective on the possible impact of the drought what it could do for you guys over the next few years? With all these new customers in the market do you think the tailwind associated with the drought can lead to multiple seasons of strong demand? Or would you think most of the benefit will be realized kind of in the near term? I think it remains to be seen.
It will be interesting to see what happens this spring regarding the weather conditions and the drought.
If you look at the most recent drought monitored you'd see the percent -- some frequent improvement in the Eastern states in terms of the drought.
In the Western states there's still quite a bit of dry area and not a significant improvement yet but some.
And it really is too early to say what impact we'll see during this next quarter.
I know that this will be the indicator when we see what the weather conditions are like in the spring.
It's a tough situation for the farmers given the drought that we've had and the impact that it had in this past year.
And it was a great realization of the importance of efficient irrigation and the role that it played in there.
But I think there's a great deal of concern still in terms of what the next season will bring and what impact that will have on overall yields.
Got you.
And then moving over to international side.
Do you think this -- we've seen a couple of large orders in the Middle East now this quarter and then last year.
Do you think this would be indicative of more stable increased order activity? Or do you expect orders in the Middle East to be lumpier on a quarterly basis? I would still anticipate that the Middle East projects that we see and the orders that we see will tend to be a little lumpy.
They are still -- tend to be fairly sizable and often a bid-tender type project so I think we're still going to see some lumpiness in it.
I don't think we've seen any kind of an even flow in the projects in that region yet.
All right.
And then lastly if you don't mind in the infrastructure side.
Now or towards the end of March where kind of construction season is getting going have you seen any pickup in activity let's say now versus the end of the quarter? I won't really comment on in terms of anything forward-looking in terms of our orders for infrastructure or the irrigation business at this point outside of the quarter.
But I'd say that we are getting that production schedule.
I would anticipate that we're going to see more in terms of demand for the Road Safety type products or even leasing of the Road Zipper type system during this season than what we have seen up to this point in that fiscal year.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Connors.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on capacity utilization.
You talked a little bit about it earlier but let me kind of invert that and talk about how you see incremental or I guess decremental margin potential if in fact we do get a moderating demand scenario as you talked about a couple of times.
And specifically I guess you've done a really good job adding capacity without necessarily deploying a lot of capital.
And so with that in mind how do you view yourself as positioned from a margin standpoint if in fact we're to get some kind of a moderation in unit demand? Well as you know the decreasing market part is always a more challenging one for many companies.
I would say that we have done that fairly well in the past when we have seen some moderation in the market.
And part of that is due to the fact that the labor and overhead is a relatively small portion of our total cost of goods sold.
There always is a challenge to be able to respond fast enough on those but that's really the key.
I'm not overly concerned about that and right now I'm not projecting that moderation.
We just have some concerns in terms of what may happen this spring with either weather conditions or with potential crop prices and acres planted and things.
There are still a number of unknowns out there in terms of what this next season will be.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew O'Conor.
I wanted to know Rick can you further characterize the contract win in the Middle East? I mean in which country was the contract won? And is it a one-off situation? Or would there be a likelihood of follow-on contracts? And is this a new customer for Lindsay? Well for a couple of different reasons I won't define who the customer is other than to say that it's a government entity type contract in the Middle East.
And I would say that I would characterize it as a fairly new relationship with more opportunities for the future.
So I think that there are more opportunities there not just in this particular country but throughout the region.
And we will see more activity of this type.
But I do believe it will continue to be lumpy.
Okay.
And then further to this and to the extent you can how would you characterize the competitive environment for new irrigation contracts globally? Well generally it's pretty competitive in terms of we'll see different competitors that will come in and bid.
I think there's a definite perception from the customer standpoint of a differentiation in quality between a few competitors and let's say some of the more regional competitors.
So I believe we're in good position when we bid and we're not necessarily required to or have to bid at the lowest price because there is a differentiation seen between us and at least one of our other competitors in terms of quality level.
So I think we're in a pretty good position.
I do think that if it's going to go to a lowest bidder we're often not going to be that because we do have a pretty good quality standard and a very high -- good quality product.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Mondillo.
LLC</strong> I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about the international part of the irrigation business.
You saw a good amount of growth this quarter but sort of modest over the last several quarters.
And it's been sort of lumpy as well.
So I was just wondering if you could talk about -- a little bit about that in terms of long-term growth rates.
And then also if you could quantify sort of the geographic regions and where you see a lot of your demand that'd be great.
Well in terms of the international markets we've seen good growth in a number of areas.
But I would characterize it as a -- there's still quite a bit of our international business that is export in export from primarily the U.S.
and that would include significant markets like Mexico and Middle East and Canada as well as Australia and New Zealand.
Those are important markets for us and we've had good growth.
We also have business units in South America and Africa and Europe that cover -- and in China and also cover Russia and Ukraine out of our European operation.
And we've seen particularly good sales in the last quarter in South America.
And also our European business is still doing very well and we've seen growth in Russia and Ukraine.
China is at kind of a low point in the season and we really have not seen much happen there this season.
But we've had very good growth over the last few years in China and we anticipate good growth going forward.
LLC</strong> So was it sort of just balanced over all those different regions...
I think South America stood out and certainly Russia and Ukraine stood out in terms of performance for the quarter.
And I think that the state of Mexico was probably pretty high on the list as well in the quarter and the Middle East.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And long-term growth rates in sort of your international business do you think that accelerates over the long term and you may been seeing sort of much more modest growth than compared to the domestic demand at least? Well in the past we've described the long-term growth rates for the international irrigation markets as being in the teens probably in that 12% to 15% range as the long-term international irrigation growth rate.
I would still put them in that category and I think it will be up and down and also influenced by projects.
But generally those are the type of growth rates we see in the international markets.
I'm not ready to call that differently.
I do think that there are some factors for example the Russian market I believe is potentially very substantial that could influence those growth rates going forward.
LLC</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then could you just remind us -- I don't know if you've disclosed sort of about what the size of the Golden Gate Bridge project is and also how's the pipeline of that QMB business look? Well we haven't disclosed the size of the Golden Gate project to us there is a number that's out in the Golden Gate Bridge authorities website in terms of the total value of the project and I don't recall the amount specifically.
I think it was $26 million.
That includes the roadwork and other things that they need to do.
And ours of course would be a portion of that amount.
And in terms of the pipeline I would describe it as less than what we've seen in a couple of years ago.
However we're in the process of rebuilding that pipeline and we're rebuilding it in a sense of having people on the road talking with government officials in countries that have not been our customers in the past.
And as I commented earlier we're really trying to create the demand and believe that this is -- that the Road Zipper system is a product where we need to create the demand by raising awareness and showing the benefits in terms of traffic mitigation and managing traffic on bridges.
So we're in the process of rebuilding that pipeline and believe that it will take a little bit of time to get it back to the levels we saw 2 or 3 years ago.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And then just one last one.
In terms of infrastructure aside from the Golden Gate project how are you looking at that infrastructure business in the second half compared to the second half of last year? Are we going to see a growth year-over-year? Or how is that going -- how do you think that's going to look? Well I'm not going to make a projection because it is definitely impacted by what happens with government spending and with road projects.
And as I've commented on before I really can't predict when that will turn or what's going to happen with it.
I think that we continue to believe that the long-term opportunity there is substantial and we'll keep evaluating what we have to do to keep improving our performance in that business which means improving margins or expense reduction or whatever we have to do.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And in terms of margins do you have -- can you quantify any sort of savings that you may see in terms of any initiatives? Not at this time.
Your next question comes from the line of David Rose.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered so I just have a couple of quick ones.
One on capacity you've addressed capacity within your factories.
Can you outline what are the biggest bottlenecks in the supply chain for you and what you're doing to address those? Well there's no specific bottleneck in the supply chain that comes to mind.
I think I would describe it more as some of the difficulty that we had from a let's say a practical capacity standpoint.
It was reacting to the inflow of orders at a rate that was above what was forecasted.
So while we forecast and we create production schedules to that forecast we were continually surprised that we would see orders come in at the higher rates and have to at sometimes accelerate or expedite materials coming in but also add more people and more capability and capacity and some function.
So there isn't any one that stands out.
I think the difficult part is always ramping up in a period where -- of uncertainty or sometimes ramping down in periods of uncertainty also when you can't determine or adequately forecast what that production schedule should look like.
That was the biggest challenge through the last quarter.
Research Division</strong> You've outlined additional manufacturing capacity and productivity initiatives as part of your CapEx plans.
As you look into 2014 at what point would you have to increase capacity? I mean if you see sales up 10% demand's up 10% I mean is there some sort of benchmark at which you're looking? Well I wouldn't describe it as a specific benchmark.
I would say that we are continually evaluating capacity and methods to expand capacity.
And some of our expansion in the short term can be done by adding more manual operations or semi-automated type operations in our existing facilities.
But we're looking at our production expansion our capacity expansion projects.
We're also looking at what we do with our international business units to add in more capabilities like tubing production or galvanizing or expanding our manufacturing operation which to some extent takes additional capacity out of -- or production out of the U.S.
manufacturing to help balance that capability.
So adding global capacity for us is beneficial in total.
It allows us to utilize that capacity across the globe.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then lastly you said that competitive dynamic is sort of global.
But can you address China as we've seen a number of competitors increase? What has that done to your outlook and your competitive position? You mentioned globally that price is not an issue for you.
You don't compete on price.
But how does that play out in China? Well I would never say price is not an issue and that we don't be compete on price.
It's always a factor.
And while we've had to watch our competitive position from a price standpoint in terms of not getting either too far ahead or out of the market from a price standpoint.
But I would say that we have more competitors in China than we had a few years ago more local Chinese competitors.
And it's always a concern when we get more competitors because we do get more price competition.
However I'd say that the quality standards are not the same.
And as I said our machine is excellent and we really don't have quality concerns.
And the perception of our brand is excellent which helps to reinforce that.
So we can really differentiate ourselves from the local competitors in terms of the quality of the equipment that we sell and our services.
But in addition to that since we are a local producer we're producing at a competitive cost from a labor and overhead and material standpoint.
So as long as we're local we're not overly concerned from a competitive -- from a perspective of being competitive.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Chris Shaw.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us an update with the cash continuing to increase what the status of maybe the M&amp;A pipeline is right now? How close you might be on anything? Well I couldn't describe how close we are on anything.
I would just say that the M&amp;A pipeline is probably I would describe it as active or more active than anything I've seen for us in the last couple of years.
And I think that we continue to look for opportunities and businesses that with our core businesses and particularly the irrigation business in some way it adds to our offering and differentiation as well as looking for businesses of significant size that are additional add-ons to Lindsay and are synergistic to what we do.
But we continue to see a lot of really good opportunities and that pipeline is bigger and a little broader than what we've seen in the last couple of years.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You'd be hopeful to get maybe deals on them in calendar '13? I'm always hopeful to get deals on in any time period but I would never make that projection just because there are so many factors in terms of having willing sellers and reaching on agreed-on price and a number of different factors.
But I'm always hopeful of getting one done and frankly usually disappointed that we didn't get one done.
But we'll keep at it and we'll find the right things that fit.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then I'm a little newer than some of you guys and so when would you first start seeing sort of a shift in demand trend from either lower farmer incomes or lower crop prices? Is that something that you'd start seeing in the fourth quarter typically for looking out for next year then? Or are we still some time away from that? I wouldn't project a time to specifically see a demand shift.
I think that there's a number of variables that we watch and we'll be monitoring.
And I think that at this stage it's a little early to call what will happen during this next season or the one after and I say that because it will be -- a large part is driven by what happens with yields during this next crop cycle.
Now there's a lot of discussion about how many acres will be planted of corn.
That's not known yet and then what the yields will be.
And the yield of course is going to be affected by weather conditions as well as other things.
So all of those will -- really have played a role in determining crop prices that have an impact on our demand in the future.
But it's too soon to really make a call on that.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you know from past drought events what kind of tale -- that demand tale might have been in the past? Or are there drought -- I know this one seems fairly more significant than anything we probably had since the '80s.
But do you have any impression of what that could be? I really couldn't describe the past events.
I would say that they vary in terms of we've had some droughts that were multi-year droughts.
And we've seen that the irrigation demand kept us throughout that drought period.
And we've had droughts where it was very severe in 1 year in a small geographic region and got to the point of killing demand for irrigation because there wasn't enough water to irrigate.
Now that's not the case that we're facing obviously across the corn belt today.
That's why some of the growers get concerned about water availability and we believe that there's some pull-forward in it that face the things like low moratoriums or whatever that could be in place.
But I think that there's not a specific model to say that this is what will happen in a drought.
A lot of it will depend on what happens during this next season.
And your last question comes from the line of Matt Keegan [ph].
Sort of seeing that -- the last question in terms of the cash.
I mean at this point you're almost at $12.5 a share in cash.
And given that you had a big infrastructure acquisition a couple of years ago I think arguably it's had its challenges.
Is M&amp;A your only or your major priority in terms of cash use? Or would you start looking at other things? Your dividend yield is only about 0.5% maybe you feel like your stock to be undervalued and buy back some stock.
Are those on the table in addition to acquisitions? Yes all of those are on the table.
We do discuss and consider all of those options at any time including share buybacks and expanding the dividend and all of the options that you would consider.
They're all available to us we do look at them.
I do think that the acquisition opportunities today are real that there are some but we consider all of those options.
Thank you.
This does conclude the question-and-answer portion of today's call.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Rick Parod for closing remarks.
For our business overall the global long-term drivers of water conservation population growth increasing importance of biofuels and the need for a safer more efficient transportation solutions remain positive.
In addition to the overall business enhancements that have taken place we recognize our strong cash position and are focused on seeking and executing against acquisition objectives that will generate additional growth opportunities.
Lindsay is committed to achieving earnings growth through global market expansion improvements in margins and strategic acquisitions.
We thank you for your questions and participation in this call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Presenters please hold the line.
Good morning.
My name is Holly and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which reflect management’s current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Joining me on today's call is Jim Raabe Lindsay Corporation's Chief Financial Officer.
Total revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2013 were a record $219.5 million increasing 28% from $172.1 million in the same period last year.
Revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2013 reflected higher demand for irrigation systems stimulated by positive drivers in the agriculture economy and lower demand for infrastructure products impacted by government funding issues and project delays.
As last year's drought conditions across the U.S.
pushed commodity prices higher the recognition of the importance of efficient mechanical irrigation rose creating robust demand for irrigation equipment.
Operating margins were driven to 18% in the third quarter compared to 16.7% in the same quarter last year.
Net earnings were $26.1 million or $2.01 per share compared with $18.8 million or $1.47 per diluted share in the prior year.
Total revenues for the first 9 months of fiscal 2013 were a record $542.5 million increasing 28% from the same period last year.
Net earnings were a record $60.1 million or $4.66 per diluted share as compared to $34.5 million or $2.70 per diluted share in the prior year.
As a reminder the prior year results included a $7.2 million accrual for environmental remediation at our Lindsay Nebraska facility which lowered earnings $0.37 per share last year.
For the irrigation segment sales totaled $200.9 million in the quarter 34% higher than last year.
Irrigation operating margins improved to 21.9% compared to 20.9% last year.
In the U.S.
irrigation market revenues were $118.3 million for the third quarter increasing 12% over the same period last year with the largest increases in the corn belt.
Farm commodity prices remained relatively high by historical standards which supported positive farmer sentiment.
As of February 2013 the USDA forecasted net farm income to be approximately $128.2 billion for 2013.
This would be the highest on record and 73% above the 10-year average.
While irrigation equipment demand remained strong during the primary selling season the impact of drought conditions that had favorably impacted irrigation demand over the past 12 months has diminished by rainfall throughout the corn belt.
Now the concern has switched from the impact of the drought to concerns over delayed planting and crop quality due to the heavy rains in the Midwest increasing yield uncertainty.
In the international irrigation markets revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2013 were $82.6 million increasing 88% over the same quarter last year.
Revenues increased most notably in the Middle East and Brazil.
During the quarter we recognized approximately 40% of the $39 million Middle East contract that we received last quarter.
We expect to recognize most of the remaining revenue on the contract during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 and a small amount in early fiscal 2014.
Irrigation equipment revenues in Brazil more than doubled over the same quarter of last year fueled by proven success from mechanized irrigation and very attractive interest rates offered by the Brazilian government for agricultural equipment.
Equipment revenues in Russia and Ukraine also increased significantly off a relatively small base reflecting our success in establishing a strong market position in the region.
In most of these international markets mechanized irrigation represents substantial yield enhancement opportunities while still having minimal market penetration.
Adding the efficient mechanized irrigation is often one of the most impactful elements in closing the yield gap between developing markets and the efficient farmers in the U.S.
While the irrigation revenues in developing regions are often less consistent and project-based they represent substantial near-term and long-term growth opportunities enabled by our global presence.
For the first 9 months of fiscal 2013 total irrigation segment revenues increased 36% to $497.9 million.
In the U.S.
irrigation market revenues were $331.9 million rising 33% over the previous year.
In the international irrigation markets revenues were $166 million increasing 40% over the previous year and the most significant increases in Brazil the Middle East and Russia and Ukraine.
Infrastructure segment revenues were $18.6 million decreasing 17% from the third quarter of last year primarily due to lower sales of Road Zipper systems and road safety products.
The infrastructure segment generated operating income of $0.2 million compared to operating income of $1.4 million in the third quarter of last year due to unfavorable mix in amortizing costs over lower sales base.
Infrastructure demand including for Road Zipper system projects has continued to be challenging this year due to constricted government funding and project delays.
For the first 9 months of fiscal 2013 infrastructure revenues decreased 20% to $44.6 million with the largest revenue decrease in Road Zipper systems and road safety products.
While the Road Zipper system sales are project-based and are therefore more inconsistent road safety product revenues are more seasonal and reflect government spending on road works.
Although the environment for infrastructure sales continues to be constrained by longer-term funding uncertainty we're seeing indications of improvement from recent sales trends.
Infrastructure backlog increased modestly in the third quarter as compared to the prior year.
Gross profit was $63 million or 28.7% of sales for the third quarter versus $49 million or 28.5% in the same quarter of last year.
Gross margins in irrigation improved modestly while infrastructure gross margins declined by approximately 3 percentage points on lower revenue.
U.S.
irrigation gross margins increased due to strong pricing manufacturing productivity and expense leveraging offset by the mix of lower margin international irrigation sales.
Operating expenses in the third quarter increased by $3.2 million (sic) [$3.3 million] to $23.5 million.
The increase was primarily driven by high incentive compensation staffing and increased accounts receivable reserves.
We've continued to take advantage of our substantial irrigation revenue growth by investing in new product development at historically high levels to expand and further establish our technological leadership position in irrigation.
Even with the added investments operating expenses as a percentage of sales decreased to 10.7% for the quarter compared to 11.8% for the same period last year reflecting significant operating leverage.
The order backlog on May 31 2013 was $80 million compared to $159.3 million on February 28 2013 and $44.5 million on May 31 2012.
The increase in current year backlog reflects increased equipment demand in Brazil and carryover volume from the Middle East order announced in the second quarter.
There are also modest increases in U.S.
irrigation and U.S.
infrastructure backlog on a year-over-year basis.
Cash and cash equivalents of $170 million were $50 million higher than the same time last year while debt decreased $4.3 million over the same period.
Accounts receivables were $35.2 million higher year-over-year due to the higher sales and DSO increased 4 days.
Inventories increased $10.3 million in support of higher sales volume while inventory turns improved.
Our primary uses of cash remain investing in organic growth opportunities while continuing to seek accretive acquisitions that add new businesses and/or product lines.
We now expect capital expenditures in 2013 to be approximately $14 million to $17 million largely focused on manufacturing capacity expansion and productivity improvements.
In addition we have historically increased the dividend annually and have an outstanding share repurchase authorization.
The board's outstanding authorization reflects confidence in our long-term outlook and enables us to opportunistically purchase shares to further drive value for shareholders.
In summary we have achieved record results for the first 9 months of fiscal 2013 driven by positive farmer sentiment toward capital investments and concern over the past and potential drought conditions.
In the irrigation segment we anticipate gross margin headwinds in the fourth quarter due to lower margin international irrigation project backlog and due to planned manufacturing maintenance projects.
Irrigation equipment demand for 2014 and beyond is unclear today and will be driven by farmer sentiment influenced by weather conditions crop prices stock-to-use ratios and their perspective on overall farm income potential at that time.
We remain very confident that the key drivers to our business are favorable and that over the long term increase in agricultural yields to boost food supply improving water use efficiency biofuel production and improving transportation infrastructure will remain global priorities.
I would now like to open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question will come from the line of Brett Wong Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you could provide us with an update on the Golden Gate project timing and how we should think about the flow-through in the model? Well I really don't have an update of any significance on the Golden Gate project.
The last I had heard was that we were anticipating an order late in the summer.
However we weren't expecting any of that to ship during this fiscal year.
And I know that as in -- with all big projects there are often some delays and I wouldn't be surprised if there were some but that's the last that I've heard on this is that it's a late summer expectation in terms of an order.
And this would be something that would take place then in the next fiscal year.
I will be able to give a better update certainly after we receive an order or see that one comes through and then we can talk more about the timing of the revenue recognition on a project of that type.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned that with the wet spring some of the driving factors behind increased demand this year because of the last year's drought may be fading perhaps? Can you maybe talk to how you see demand next year in 2014? Well it's difficult to predict the demand for next year.
I would describe the situation as what we saw during the primary selling season this year was pretty aggressive demand but largely fueled by the drought that we experienced last year and -- last spring and summer.
And I would say that carried over somewhat into this season.
And what we saw in probably the last half of the quarter was a little more of a typical slowdown which was not unexpected because that's when most of the machines are out in the field and the farmers will not want to be putting machines in after planting.
Now what we've seen since then is obviously some changes in the weather where there's been more rain and more disruption to the planting process and more concern over what the crop will look like and what yields will look like this year.
And that remains pretty uncertain at this point.
So as I stated in the opening comments I think that this will really be determined by what farmer sentiment looks like say in the spring when they have a better view of not only the harvest results but what the forward-looking crop prices and farm income opportunity look like.
But all that said I think the other point of interest in this is that our drivers are often slightly different than other ag equipment in that it's also driven by weather it's driven by water availability and it's often a very significant yield enhancement opportunity to put in irrigation in dry land.
And what we've seen is significant increases in putting pivots into dry land in the recent quarters.
And -- where in the past number of years ago we were seeing about 1/3 of the machines we ship go into dry land.
This past quarter it was roughly about 46% of the machines.
And we've seen that year-to-date it's about 47% so a pretty high percentage are going into dry land recognizing the yield enhancement opportunity.
So in terms of the looking forward I think there's a number of variables that will determine the farmer sentiment at that time.
Your next question comes from the line of Nathan Jones Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just following up to that last statement you made on the number or the percentage of machines going into dry land being elevated at 46% 47%.
Do you think that's a trend that can continue as farmers in dry land are chasing yield? Or do you think it's more likely to mean revert? Again I think it comes down to a number of factors.
I think one of those will certainly be weather.
And I do believe that the recent drought we had over the last year certainly caused a great deal of concern and opened the eyes of a number of farmers in terms of the impact it had on their operations without having irrigation.
So I think the importance of the -- of efficient irrigation in farming operations is widely recognized.
And I would expect that we'll continue to see increases in the amount of irrigated land over time.
But at what rate? It's very difficult to say at this stage.
And I think it will largely be determined on what the conditions look like in the next season.
I'll also say that I think that we've seen a great deal of volatility in weather in the last few years from extreme drought to flooding to heavy rains in the spring.
So quite a few maybe somewhat exaggerated conditions but I do think this creates -- causes a lot of concern for farmers in terms of how to achieve some consistency in their farm income.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I just wanted to get some more color on the driving factors behind the margin expansion.
So in irrigation 110 basis points of margin expansion.
Over the whole company 110 basis points of margin expansion from SG&amp;A.
So obviously very good leverage there.
Can you talk about the other impacts? You had a pretty significant negative mix shift on the international revenue which is looks like largely offset by operational improvements fixed cost leverage and price.
Can you just give us some more color on how each of those factors impacted margins in the quarter? Sure Nathan.
This is Jim Raabe.
As we noted irrigation as a whole gross margins were slightly up and -- but in domestic the margins were better.
It has continued to be a pretty strong pricing environment which has been the most significant factor.
But as you've seen in the overall volume we've also continued to get productivity and leverage in our manufacturing operations.
The input costs have been relatively flat maybe a little bit favorable on the steel side but we have seen some offsets in some other components.
And as we also noted the irrigation was -- or the international irrigation sales from a mix standpoint was an offset to those improvements that we saw in the U.S.
manufacturing operations both from just the standpoint of the overall magnitude of international sales and the fact that those international sales do typically have a little bit lower margins.
But then in addition to that this Middle East contract is also somewhat lower margins as well because there's a fair amount of that contract that is purchased ancillary parts not just manufactured by us.
So that's kind of the overview.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and one last question for me on capital allocation.
The balance sheet is obviously far from optimal.
And we've been waiting for a fair while now for something to happen either in terms of M&amp;A repurchase dividend increases a special dividend or something.
I know you have a repurchase authorization which hasn't really been used.
Your dividend yield and payout ratio are pretty low.
When do you think it's the right time to start thinking about returning that cash to shareholders? Well that's something that's one of the let's say top priorities from our view in terms of the utilization of the capital on the balance sheet that we are often talking about.
We look at it in terms of acquisition candidates and acquisition process that we have ongoing.
And we do have candidates always in process.
But we also look at it -- and as I commented earlier our view that we will be able to opportunistically purchase -- repurchase stock.
So we have all of those vehicles at our disposal.
And you're right we have not done that in the past.
And I think that as opportunities will come up we will be certainly looking for those opportunities.
When I say we haven't done it in the past not in the recent past in terms of the repurchases.
But it's certainly a very high priority for us in terms of the utilization of the capital.
The next question comes from the line of Schon Williams BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Wonder if we could just talk a little bit about the weather impact this quarter? Was there any effect to your domestic operations from the late start to some of the plantings? Well I can say that we saw a significant impact from weather on our business in the sense that most of our equipment would -- certainly they want it in the field before planting.
And I think that what we saw was a fairly typical season from that standpoint and then the weather delays really have affected many of the farmers.
Now we did I'm sure have situations where they couldn't get the machines in the field due to wet fields and the weather conditions but I don't believe that was a significant factor.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then so if I look at domestic revenues in the quarter they looked a lot like Q2 revenues $118 million versus $117 million.
Are we essentially at full utilization for your U.S.
production? Is this -- are you going to have to make additional I don't know additional investment to kind of get beyond this type of level? Well I wouldn't describe it as a -- as full utilization.
I would say that we're pretty near a practical capacity.
And as I've described in the past there are a number of ways that we can expand that capacity.
Some of them are not very capital-intensive in terms of adding some more manual-type processes.
And some of them if they were more -- would be more capital-intensive if we're looking at a longer-term capital or longer-term additions to capacity.
We're also looking at more capacity expansion in our international operations which would alleviate some of the pressure on the domestic operations as well.
And we think that is a good long-term solution in that we need more capacity in a number of the international markets.
So that's where when we looked at the CapEx that we talked about in that $14 million to $17 million range this year would be the start of some of the capital expansion in the international businesses the international factories.
Research Division</strong> And remind me how much of the domestic production would get -- would eventually make its way overseas? I mean is that -- that's a small piece -- a fairly small piece of the mix? I don't have that number off the top but I wouldn't describe it as a small piece because we have a fair amount of export business to markets like Mexico and Australia and New Zealand and some others.
So there's a fair amount of export in our international that would be outside of our business units in those -- in the international markets.
We may be able to get that percentage for you.
I just don't know that off the top.
Research Division</strong> No no that's fine.
That's helpful.
And maybe one last follow-up.
It just -- it looks like the CapEx spending is going to be kind of fully loaded into this -- into fiscal Q4.
Should I expect some of these projects to carry over into next fiscal year? Or do we get a big slug here in the next quarter and then that's kind of it for a while? I'm just kind of looking at your full-year number versus the pace we've been at.
It just seems like we've got an awful lot kind of hitting all at once.
I'm just wondering if that continues into the next fiscal year.
So we have a project or 2 that is planned for this fiscal year that will hit in the fourth quarter and those are probably fairly sizable.
And then going into next year I would expect that our CapEx -- and we really haven't got into that plan part of it yet completely but I would expect it's going to be back in the $20 million range due to some sizable projects that we have planned not necessarily front-loaded in the first quarter but certainly we'll have some sizable projects next year which would be the capacity expansion in international markets.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Drab William Blair.
Research Division</strong> First question on the international business.
So can you talk a little bit more about international irrigation? First of all you're up almost $40 million sequentially in the international business and presumably around $16 million of that was related to the big project in Iraq.
Can you just rank order other geographies and/or projects internationally by their impact on the sequential growth in the quarter? Well I think the way that I would think about it in terms of -- for the quarter if I were to rank order some of the markets I would say that the -- certainly the Middle East was a big piece in our quarter sales for international market.
Next would probably be Brazil and after that Europe which has remained pretty strong and that's Europe in general.
And then after that of course there's China and other markets but those would probably be the top 3.
And generally what we would see in our international markets is we'll see the top 3 or 4 will be typically Brazil Mexico Europe China Russia and Ukraine.
We may see some of these trade off but we'll see a trade-off between those specific regions.
Research Division</strong> And Mexico in the quarter was I guess wasn't as strong as some previous quarters? It wouldn't have been in the top 3 but it was still a pretty strong -- still had some good strong performance in Mexico as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also regarding international irrigation your -- the level of sales in the quarter was just about double what you've done in any previous quarter almost double.
And I'm just wondering if this is sort of a peak level for international irrigation.
Or should we infer from your comments regarding expanding capacity in international markets that this is maybe the new norm there and we'll see these levels going forward.
Well Brian I certainly think that the international project in the Middle East was a significant piece of this obviously in the quarter.
But also we've seen strong increases in Brazil and some other -- in Russia and Ukraine and other markets in the international markets.
And some of those are in my view in early days where they're really just getting started.
Recognizing that from quarter-to-quarter we'll see the switch-off in terms of level of importance and they will also switch off in terms of the size of the projects because they are still more project-based.
But what we are seeing on a more macro global basis is the increased importance of these international markets and their recognition of the importance of mechanized irrigation.
Research Division</strong> So is it safe to say that your project pipeline for relatively larger international irrigation projects is increasing improving? Yes I think that's a fair statement.
I would say that pipeline is increasing.
That's not necessarily referring to -- in backlog but certainly the pipeline in terms of what we're going after or what projects we're working that would be a fair statement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then last are you a little surprised that third quarter domestic irrigation revenue wasn't up more sequentially? And do you feel at this point that some demand was pulled forward from the third quarter? You indicated you were not necessarily capacity constrained in the quarter so I'm just -- I was a little surprised that we didn't see more of an uptick in the domestic business.
No I can't say that I was really surprised.
It had been so strong in terms of the impact of the drought.
And as I've talked about in the past we always felt that there was some pull-forward not knowing how much.
And I also think that we hit that point of a more normal season at least in the second half of the quarter.
So we did see that change but it was not completely unexpected.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Mondillo Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just one question.
Just was wondering if you could give us an update on your QMB opportunities around the world? Well I would describe it as in reviewing the project list as still a very good aggressive project list with a lot of opportunities in the range that we've seen in the past.
And let's say that there's many that are probably getting closer than where we were say 3 to 6 months ago to where there's much more activity.
I would be surprised if we didn't have some QMB revenue in the next quarter.
But it's hard to determine exactly what that will be but I will say that I'm very optimistic in terms of the projects that I see on the list and what's getting work today.
LLC</strong> Do you think we're going to see any new orders within say the next 12 months? Yes I do.
I won't go out to say exactly when or what or what size but yes I do.
I think that there's enough projects that are at that stage where I would expect that we will see those.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up question.
In terms of the gross margin in the irrigation do you have any concern with sort of the I guess somewhat maybe slowing domestic market that these inflated gross margins compared to your historicals may see any pressure? Well I think we know from historical perspective that if the market slows we may see more competitive -- more aggressive competitiveness in terms of -- more aggressiveness in pricing.
So that could put some pressure on margins.
I would be more concerned about that than I would say manufacturing efficiency per se.
So I think that we could see some of that happen and I wouldn't be surprised if that did.
At the same time I would say that we will do what we need to do to defend our market position where we believe we're in an excellent competitive position and we also have a differentiated product offering which helps us from a pricing standpoint.
LLC</strong> And then just lastly it seems like your gross margin has been improving year-over-year at the irrigation.
However you mentioned in the fourth quarter that that you could see some pressure on the gross margin.
Does that -- are you essentially saying that you could see a year-over-year contraction due to the just the international mix there? Well I wouldn't look at it from a comparative contraction basis because we really don't know what the rest of the fourth quarter mix will be.
I would just say that we do know that the international mix will be heavier in the fourth quarter than is typical.
What we would expect anyway heavier than typical because of this project that's already in our backlog.
In addition we also know we have some planned maintenance projects in the factory which will add some expense.
But I wouldn't be giving -- I wouldn't be guiding to saying it will be more or less than previous periods.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Shaw Monness Crespi.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think you hinted at the last answer or last set of questions but with steel prices still fairly low and weak are you guys being able -- I guess is the industry maintaining pricing at this point? Are you able to keep the pricing up? What we've seen recently is that the industry has been maintaining pricing and as you comment steel has been relatively flat.
We haven't seen much movement there.
So it's been a pretty good position from that standpoint.
But yes pricing has been pretty stable.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you haven't seen any sort of competitive pricing and trying to take advantage of lower steel just yet? I'm sorry I didn't catch the first part of that.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You haven't seen anybody trying to be more competitive on pricing and take advantage of the low steel? We always do see some of that on a regional basis.
I would say nothing abnormal or nothing that caused me great concern at this point.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the infrastructure in the release you sound modestly slightly optimistic I guess going forward.
And then you talked about I think just before about being slightly optimistic on QMB but how is the other piece of that business? Are you seeing some pickup there at all on the safety products? Yes I'm optimistic in all of the pieces.
I think there's -- we're seeing more improvement in the safety product side and also in the rail piece of the business.
In addition we've cut some expenses in the past 6 months that from an operating standpoint will put us in better position coming to this next year.
So I'm optimistic about the performance of this business for the next year.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last one if you look at the drought maps it's in -- key markets for you guys like Kansas and Nebraska and Texas there's still a decent amount of drought there.
How big are those markets overall for you in terms of sort of the typical dry land areas? Well those are very big markets.
Texas has been a big market.
Obviously Kansas is a big market.
So they're all good markets for us and I am surprised given the rain that we see here in Omaha almost daily that those drought conditions still exist at that level.
However that is fact.
There is still drought there in many of those markets.
Those are good markets for us.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You don't have any idea percentage-wise or "bigger than a breadbasket" kind of wise how big those 3 markets are overall? I don't have that off the top no.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is a follow-up question from the line of Schon Williams BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the international irrigation.
You mentioned in your opening remarks that you're seeing some nice growth in Russia and Ukraine.
I wonder if you could just talk about -- I mean we've seen a lot of investment at least in the headlines in terms of French [ph] government talking about investment in water infrastructure.
And I'm just wondering are you seeing some of that investment finally turn into orders for you guys? Or do you think it's more about Lindsay penetrating those markets and just doing a better job of getting making contacts and kind of pounding the pavement in those areas? Well I think it's a number of things Schon.
One is that what we're seeing is that some of the investors in that market are agri holding-type companies that are financial investors that are going in and buying or leasing land and farming that land.
We are also seeing some of the government subsidies start to play out and actually get paid out in some of the markets.
And that's a significant help in those areas.
And yet I think with the agri holding companies we can show in the financial models that we put together that their return on investment and their payback is pretty substantial with or without those government subsidies because of the yield consistency that they get when you look at the historical droughts and other things that have taken place.
And that land in Russia and Ukraine is incredible in terms of the agricultural potential from that farmland.
It's vast and open relatively flat with water available and yet very low yields on a comparative basis compared to the United States in many of the crops.
So from a potential standpoint it's very significant.
And we're dealing with customers that can be everything from the agri holding companies to the major growers that are in Russia and Ukraine to the smaller farmers in the region.
And we're really able to deal with all of them but we're probably seeing the most significant impact right now with agri holding and the large growers.
Research Division</strong> And what's -- I mean just kind of off the top of your head ballpark I mean agri holding is that -- that's 1/4 of the farmland in that territory 10%? Do you have a sense? I can't make a percentage on that.
I would say that it's a relatively small percent at this point but has the potential to be a sizable percentage in those markets because of the vast pieces of farmland that they're putting together.
So in many cases it'll be 40 000 50 000 to 100 000 hectares and more.
So they're looking at putting big pieces of land together in these agri holding companies.
So I think it's a relatively small percentage today.
I really don't have a number but I would say that it's a very big growth opportunity.
Research Division</strong> And are you seeing product go into dry land? Or it's more replacement of kind of dilapidated product that's been there for several decades? Well I think the primary emphasis today is the dry land but I'd say that there has been a significant irrigation presence in the past in terms of mechanical irrigation in Russia and Ukraine.
However most of it is gone.
And when the Soviet Union broke up most of those machines were sold for scrap value.
So a percentage of machines on that land today is probably 1/10 of what it had been at one time which created significant opportunity for restructuring or basically resurrecting that land and putting irrigation back on it in addition to the land that hasn't been irrigated in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question here.
The allowance for bad debt did go up by about $1 million in the quarter.
You mentioned that it's kind of contributing to some of the year-over-year expense increases.
Could you just highlight is that concern over one specific customer? And maybe can you highlight is it irrigation or infrastructure? Yes this is Jim.
And I would say with the growth in international international is a little bit more difficult market to do business in from a receivables and collection and credit assessment standpoint.
So it is on the irrigation side.
It is on the international side.
And I think there's also been some in the news about China.
China is a difficult place in particular from that standpoint.
So international irrigation is where we're seeing it.
I think we're managing it well.
We're certainly taking the steps we need to do make sure we're making the right choices there.
But it is a growth area that we're getting into some new areas.
So...
And at this time there are no further questions.
I'll turn the call back over to Mr.
Parod for closing remarks.
For our business overall the global long-term drivers of water conservation population growth increasing importance of biofuels and the need for safer more efficient transportation solutions remain positive.
Lindsay is committed to achieving long-term earnings growth and to creating value for shareholders through multiple vehicles including continual investment in our core businesses acquisitions dividends and share repurchases.
We thank you all for your questions and participation in this call today.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation on today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Victoria and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] During this management -- during this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which reflect management's current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Joining me on today's call is Jim Raabe Lindsay Corporation's Chief Financial Officer; and Lori Zarkowski our Chief Accounting Officer.
Total revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 were a record $148.4 million increasing 16% from $127.8 million in the same period last year driven by higher demand for irrigation systems in our international markets and slightly higher sales of our infrastructure products.
Our acquisition of the Claude Laval Corporation the manufacturer and marketer of the highly regarded LAKOS brand of filters and separators closed 2 weeks before the end of the quarter thus had little impact on our 2013 results.
We are very pleased to have added this excellent company and line of filtration products which fits well with our efficient irrigation product solutions and adds an additional growth path in industrial filtration applications.
We continue to expect the acquisition to be accretive in 2014.
Lindsay Corporation's operating margins increased to 10.6% in the quarter compared to 9.9% in the same quarter last year on higher sales and improved gross margins.
Net earnings were $10.4 million or $0.81 per diluted share compared with $8.8 million or $0.68 per diluted share in the prior year.
Total revenues for fiscal 2013 were a record $690.8 million increasing 25% from the same period last year.
Net earnings were a record $70.6 million or $5.47 per diluted share as compared to $43.3 million or $3.38 per diluted share in the prior year.
As a reminder the prior-year results included a $7.2 million accrual for environmental remediation at our Lindsay Nebraska facility which lowered earnings by $0.37 per diluted share.
For the irrigation segment sales totaled $128.2 million in the quarter 19% higher than the same quarter last year.
Irrigation operating margins declined to 14.5% of sales from 15% of sales last year due to a larger mix of international sales.
In the U.S.
irrigation market revenues were $53.9 million for the fourth quarter decreasing 4% over the same period last year.
Farm commodity prices declined during the quarter an indication of strong yields in the current growing season and a decreasing impact of the drought conditions in the corn belt.
Despite these influences order volumes remained robust by historical fourth quarter standard although less than the same time last year.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 USDA forecasted 2013 net farm income to be approximately $120.6 billion.
This would be the highest on record and 63% above the 10-year average.
At this point we believe farmer sentiment regarding capital goods purchases are becoming more conservative due to lower commodity prices and the anticipated expiration of the Section 179 deduction offset by their strong balance sheets and high farm income.
In the international irrigation market revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 were $74.3 million increasing 44% over the same quarter last year.
Revenues increased most notably in the Middle East and South America.
The increase in the Middle East reflected $17.4 million of revenue from the Iraq contract we received in the second quarter of fiscal 2013.
The increase in South America primarily reflects the continuation of the very strong market we've experienced in Brazil throughout the year.
We continue to see strong order activity in our international irrigation markets and believe these markets will continue to generate long-term growth.
For the full-year of fiscal 2013 total irrigation segment revenues increased 32% to $626 million in the U.S.
irrigation market.
Revenues were $385.7 million increasing 26% over the previous year with the majority of the growth in the drought-stricken corn belt during the first half of the year.
In the international irrigation market revenues were $240.3 million increasing 41% over previous year with the most significant increases in the Middle East and South America.
Even without the $33 million of project sales in the Middle East the international revenues grew a robust 22% in fiscal 2013.
Infrastructure segment revenues were $20.2 million in the quarter increasing 2% from the same quarter of last year.
The infrastructure segment generated operating income of $2.4 million compared to operating income of $0.7 million in the fourth quarter of last year due to higher Road Zipper Systems sales.
Infrastructure demand including the Road Zipper system projects has continued to be challenging this year due to constricted government funding and project delays.
However in September the Golden Gate Bridge Highway and Transportation District announced that it had approved $14.1 million movable barrier procurement from Lindsay for the bridge as part of a $26.5 million bridge project.
The contract has not yet been signed and we do now anticipate -- do not now anticipate recognizing revenues until 2015.
For the full-year of fiscal 2013 infrastructure revenues decreased 15% to $64.8 million with a total segment operating loss of $800 000 compared to breakeven for fiscal 2012.
Last week we made a leadership change in our infrastructure business.
Over the past couple of years cost improvements and targeted marketing initiatives have been implemented against the headwind of a difficult market.
The infrastructure business has continued to struggle to regain a sustainable profitability.
With the changes made I'm confident in the progression of our strategic position and in the business returning to profitable growth.
Gross profit in the fourth quarter was $38.6 million or 26% of sales versus $32.7 million or 25.6% of sales from the same quarter last year.
Gross margins in irrigation declined by approximately 1 percentage point due to a change in sales mix.
Infrastructure gross margins improved by approximately 8 percentage points primarily due to increased Road Zipper system sales.
Operating expenses in the fourth quarter increased by $2.7 million.
Current quarter expenses included higher personnel and incentive compensation expense acquisition-related expenses and selling expenses associated with higher volumes.
Operating revenues decreased to 15.3% of sales -- operating expenses decreased to 15.3% of sales for the quarter compared to 15.7% of sales for the same period last year.
The order backlog on August 31 2013 was $66.5 million compared to $57.1 million on August 31 2012 and $80 million on May 31 2013.
Backlog at the end of fiscal 2013 included $5 million remaining from the $39 million Iraq order received in the second quarter.
Year-over-year backlog for international irrigation and infrastructure increased while U.S.
irrigation backlog decreased.
U.S.
irrigation backlog is typically less than a quarter's revenue and at this time of year typically less than a month's revenue therefore the end-of-year backlog is not a good indication of future revenue.
Cash and cash equivalents of $152 million were $8 million higher than the same time last year while debt decreased $4.3 million.
Accounts receivable were $37.7 million higher year-over-year due to higher sales and our DSO increased 15 days due to the terms of the Iraq contract and slow payment on projects in China.
Inventories increased $15.7 million due to the LAKOS acquisition and in support of higher sales volume while inventory turns improves.
Our primary uses of cash remain investing in organic growth opportunities while continuing to seek accretive acquisitions that add new businesses and/or product lines.
In addition we have an outstanding share repurchase authorization for approximately 881 000 shares which positions us for opportunistically repurchasing company stock.
In fiscal 2014 we expect capital expenditures of approximately $20 million to $25 million largely focused on manufacturing capacity expansion and productivity improvements.
In summary the record sales in our domestic and international markets have led to an outstanding year in fiscal 2013 driven by positive farmer sentiment towards capital investments increased farm income and concern over the past and future impact of dry weather conditions.
The fourth quarter results reflect strong growth in sales and profit although we have now seen a slowing of orders in the U.S.
irrigation market from earlier in the year.
During the quarter we closed the acquisition of the Claude Laval Corporation.
The addition of this business and its filtration technologies offers Lindsay new growth paths and strengthens our differentiated competitive position.
While we don't anticipate significant incremental revenue from the synergies in 2014 we expect the business to be accretive.
As we look forward for the irrigation business we anticipate the currently projected robust harvest will potentially result in further reducing corn and soybean prices dampening farmer sentiment negatively affecting U.S.
demand for fiscal 2014.
Yet we are very optimistic for the future of mechanized irrigation globally.
International irrigation markets appear to remain very strong driven by continuing concern regarding food security globally although large international projects remain difficult to project.
For the infrastructure business government spending on highway and other infrastructure projects remains an impediment to achieving real market growth.
We do not anticipate a strong turnaround in government infrastructure spending in 2014.
However we believe we have sizable market penetration opportunities for road safety products and Road Zipper system sales worldwide and we've seen some positive signs of increased infrastructure activity.
With the cost expense and organizational changes made we believe we are positioned for revenue and profit growth.
In addition to our organic growth opportunities in irrigation and infrastructure we continue to pursue strategic synergistic acquisitions that further differentiate our market positions and add new growth opportunities.
While we have continued to aggressively pursue acquisitions finding willing sellers during the recession and early part of the recovery proved difficult.
At this time we're considering business additions ranging from approximately $30 million to $250 million of revenue and smaller product line or technology additions.
In recent months we've seen an improved environment for acquisitions.
I would now like to open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Schon Williams with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Rick you mentioned that you've seen a slowing on the domestic side of the irrigation business.
Can you just talk about trends in the quarter and what you've seen so far in fiscal Q1? Should we be expecting that kind of down mid-single digits does that become kind of down high single-digits down double-digits? I mean what are you seeing so far on the irrigation side domestically? I can't really give you much guidance in terms of the order flow Schon other than to say that what we saw last year at this time was certainly some impact from the drought that was taking place across the corn belt.
And what we've seen happen this year certainly in the fourth quarter orders remained pretty strong early on and we did see it slow down to what we would consider to be a typical type slowdown during the -- at the end of the growing season or towards the end of the growing season.
So it wasn't much of a surprise but we did see that the same drought concerns that we saw last year are not there at this point as we've seen that the drought really less in -- through most of the corn belt region.
And I think the backlog that we've talked about basically reflects that.
And as I said -- as I have said I think the other caution to this is that at this time of year it's very difficult to project what the next year will be because the backlog and the order flow does not really reflect that.
I think we did see a very different situation last year with -- driven by the drought.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I wanted to focus in on the infrastructure a little bit.
You've changed leadership there as you mentioned.
Can you help me just understand what was -- is it more about product mix? Is it more about growth trajectory? Is it more about margins? Kind of what was the overarching concern there? And then why do you feel optimistic about that division? I mean if I look at kind of history it took quite a while to fill that position last time.
I'm just wondering what makes you so optimistic about the near term for that division? Well the first part of that is that this time it is being filled internally with someone that I have a great deal of confidence in in terms of being able to lead that business on a growth path.
So we won't go through the process of the long process of trying to find somebody outside.
The other is I think that the position has made some very significant improvements under the previous leadership in terms of cost reductions expense reductions and other things that were necessary but the next stage to this as we see the market turn around is really developing a good growth strategy for this business going forward and looking for what we do to increase market penetration and really get back into a pretty aggressive forward-movement posture.
And that's the strategy for the business and I believe that is -- that's what we'll see going forward.
It won't happen instantaneously because obviously the market is -- there's a bit of momentum there but I'd say that we haven't seen the turnaround that we would like in that business and I think this is -- with new leadership we'll see a new approach.
Our next question comes from Nathan Jones with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I could just start on domestic irrigation.
You obviously said you expect 2014 to be lower than 2013 it doesn't sound like you're prepared to give any more color on kind of your expectations for the decline there.
Have you got plans in place to cut costs to remove heads under the potential for a significant cyclical decline in this business? Or did you outsource enough of the manufacturing process during this big upcycle that just bringing it back in-house is how you would manage then? Well I think first in terms of the expectation there's not much more color I could add to that other than to say that in looking at the information we're seeing in terms of harvest data it looks like the harvest is going to be pretty robust.
And talking with dealers I would say that they're seeing really good harvest numbers so far and it remains to be seen how this turns out in total.
But I think certainly the projected harvest numbers and yields look like they have certainly driven commodity prices down -- corn prices down and may drive it a little bit further.
So we believe that we'll have an impact on the U.S.
market however we're not there yet.
In other words it's really too soon to call.
On the other side of it in terms of cuts we've developed our plan with expectations and always will adjust as necessary as we get more information as we move through the year.
So for example as this harvest data comes in and we get a better projection in terms of what we think will happen in the few quarters of let's say the -- all quarters actually of the fiscal year we'll be able to make some appropriate adjustments.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it -- would it be fair to assume that by the time you report the next quarter you will be able to give us significantly more color on your outlook for the fiscal year in terms of the domestic irrigation spend? I think we can probably give more color.
I'm not sure we'll be able to answer the question in terms of what we think the next fiscal year will look like.
I definitely think we'll be in a slightly better position to give you more information.
But it's still -- that will still be a fairly difficult time because we won't really have the best look at farmer sentiment at that point in terms of what they're going to do for this next season in terms of planting.
Now there's some discussion right now for example that in some of the things that I've been reading that based on the corn harvest and what's projected in terms of yield we may see more of a switch to soybean planting this next year which would have impact in terms of soybean prices as well as corn prices going forward.
So I think there's a number of things that we will know at that next call but as I said I think it'll still be unknown in terms of what will happen in the next season.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the international front you did about $240 million in revenue in 2013 about $35 million of that from that discrete Iraq project.
When we think about 2014 international revenues should we be thinking about growth of that excluding the Iraq base -- the Iraq project? Are there other large project opportunities out there that could fall into 2014 to replace that? Or how should we think about international revenues in 2014? As I mentioned in my comments the growth without that project was still pretty significant; it was about 22% for the year.
There are more projects like that out there but to say that you should factor one in or not is difficult.
These large international projects as I said are difficult to project.
The only thing I could say is that I think there is still a very significant growth opportunities in the international market where it may not be the Middle East the next one may be Russia and Ukraine or it could be in Africa or anywhere in the world.
So we still see those significant projects out there to quote and we're working on many.
But in terms of making a projection on that I'm not prepared to do that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So would it be -- would it be more fair to think of it as kind of off a $205 million base with maybe the same kind of growth rate in 2014 as you saw at '13 if we just exclude that Iraq project? And then anything else you get on that kind of very large project side would be a bonus? Well again I'm not going to make a projection in that -- or to give guidance in that sense.
I would say that all of the markets have projects pending and all of the markets have some project opportunities.
And I just can't really give you that guidance.
Our next question comes from Brian Drab with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> First question for Jim just a housekeeping question.
Can you tell us roughly what the acquisition expense was in the fourth quarter? Well the combination of kind of acquisition expenses in the -- and the additional incremental SG&amp;A for the period that we had LAKOS in the numbers is probably around $0.5 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so that -- the onetime-acquisition-related expense was...
Is less than that yes.
Research Division</strong>   Relatively small okay.
On the Road Zipper side of the business in the quarter were there any installations? Or was this primarily leasing business? No we had one project that was a Northeast U.S.
bridge project.
I'm not going to discuss the specific magnitude of it but there was one sale project in that -- in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay so you won't give us an idea what the level of revenue was for Road Zipper though in the fourth quarter? Brian it was a modest-size contract.
I mean it was certainly meaningful to the quarter from a mix and a gross margin standpoint but it was not a large contract.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then can you give us any -- at this point do you have any better feel for the level of accretion from LAKOS in fiscal 2014? Can you give us some sense for what the accretion would be? Not really no.
There's nothing that we're specifically breaking out on that at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Rick you mentioned acquisitions could range from $30 million to $250 million in revenue.
Would these likely be more -- more likely be on the irrigation side or the infrastructure side? Well the acquisition type that we're looking at today are really more towards let's say the water use efficiency side more towards the water side.
But I wouldn't rule anything out specifically.
But that has been our primary emphasis has been more on that water side than on the infrastructure side.
And I think I've commented in the past that we really don't want a lot more in terms of government spending related or driven by government spending specifically but our primary emphasis has been more let's say industrial applications or on the water side.
Research Division</strong> And on the water side would it necessarily have to integrate with the irrigation business or more broadly just in water efficiency? I wouldn't say it would have to integrate into irrigation but we would expect some synergies.
Again I wouldn't rule out something that didn't have a synergy if it made a great third leg let's say that was really a great basis for building in the future.
But the primary emphasis has continued to be looking for those that are synergistic to our business in some way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So something similar to LAKOS in that there's certainly separation component of that in the irrigation market but they have some as I understand it general industrial exposure and other exposure as well.
You wouldn't be averse to something like that obviously.
Absolutely.
In fact I would say that LAKOS as we've looked at it only about 30% to 35% of their revenues were really tied to the groundwater and irrigation markets with the majority of their business being in more industrial applications including that heat-transfer-type applications.
We consider that a real plus because we believe that there's an opportunity to build on that technology and capability organically and through acquisitions.
So one of the many things that excited us about that business while it had a nice synergistic fit it also presented a good growth path for the future.
Research Division</strong> So if you -- I guess building on that if you look ahead 3 to 5 years could you I guess envision a Lindsay that has some meaningful component of revenue that is not irrigation and is not highway infrastructure? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last question we talk all the time about the opportunities in the international markets Ukraine former Soviet states et cetera.
Is there anything I guess specifically in the Ukraine and former Soviet states that's changed since the last time we spoke that's made you more or less optimistic about -- that sounds like an enormous opportunity that could eventually be unlocked there? I think the only thing that I would characterize as changing is I believe that the opportunities in terms of the opportunities that we're seeing today are increasing and there isn't really a specific driver for example in terms of government subsidy or whatever behind that.
But we're definitely seeing more in opportunities in that region than we did even 1 year ago.
So I'm more optimistic about it today than I have been in the past.
Your next question comes from Ryan Connors with Janney Montgomery.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on -- last quarter Rick you mentioned this issue of planned maintenance shutdowns or projects in the fourth quarter and that you thought that would be -- have a negative impact on margins.
I may have missed it and I apologize if I did but I didn't hear you mention that in your prepared remarks.
Was that a headwind to margin in the quarter? And if so can you quantify that? This is Jim.
And I would say that there were some things in the quarter but I would say the margins ended up better in the quarter than we anticipated.
We did a good job managing those projects and we've continued to see through the quarter good pricing and other factors.
So it did have an impact I wouldn't say it was as significant as we thought it would.
And I think the margins as a whole were -- certainly held up very well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So pretty clean for that issue.
We shouldn't look at that margin as somehow being depressed due to any project activity like that.
Yes.
Not to any significant degree with regard to kind of onetime items.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then another thing you talked about last quarter Rick was pricing.
And you had mentioned that you thought if in fact demand and orders come under some pressure that the pricing would get more competitive.
And it seems like the order -- the pressure on the orders is there.
So any update you can give us on kind of the pricing environment and what you're seeing develop there in U.S.
irrigation? Right.
I haven't really seen or heard of a significant change in terms of competitive environment in pricing at this point.
I think that we really haven't seen that yet.
Again I think this is the end of the season.
It's a little soon to really call that.
And I think the reference was going forward if we were to see orders fall off we could expect pricing to get more competitive.
But I think this is something we probably wouldn't see until we get into the fiscal year a little further and see what happens in terms of this next selling season.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned the Golden Gate project and you said that you thought you'd recognize revenue in '15.
Some of the local press there is saying that it's actually quoting a shipment date of October November '14 which would be your fiscal '15.
So when you say '15 do you mean calendar '15 or fiscal '15 for you? Fiscal '15 for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So could actually be calendar '14.
Okay.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then one other -- kind of a one-off question.
Something that caught our eye was this product introduction you made at the Husker Harvest the airless wheel assembly which I think was kind of interesting.
And I just wanted to get your perspective on that and whether you think that actually could be a material driver in terms of aftermarket sales on replacement of existing tires.
I think it's a great product.
And we've had a lot of interest and excitement around that primarily because it does eliminate flats of course but also it minimizes the wheel tracks in the field.
And those become smaller especially in some difficult conditions.
So it's been a great driver of interest.
We've got a number of dealers that are already placing their orders.
I think it's too soon to say it's going to be a big driver in terms of aftermarket sales at this stage but I'm pretty enthusiastic about it in terms of the demand that we're seeing today.
Your next question comes from Andrew O'Conor with BMO Asset Management.
Rick Jim.
It's frequently chronicled in the media that certain Midwest aquifers are being drained dry by irrigation and you read about this related to the High Plains aquifer with some regularity.
And I just wanted to know if you had any comments or observations about the extent of this.
I don't have a specific comment regarding that.
We obviously see the same things that you're referring to in terms of the press and we see from time to time water restrictions and regulations that will be put into place to control irrigating.
And that's not a huge surprise.
I think the way we also look at the market however is that there's a significant amount of waste that still takes place in terms of irrigation with the flood and gravity irrigation that's out there while mechanized irrigation is very efficient in terms of the water used.
And it does disturb me a bit when I see some of the water restrictions that will go in that will be well moratoriums for example to stop adding wells completely while there's still a very significant amount of flood-irrigated acres out there.
And I think that the mechanized irrigation has proven itself as being a very efficient way to improve agricultural output with the efficient use of water.
So I am certain that we will continue to see regulations and restrictions from time to time as the aquifers maybe are depleted to some extent and at times recharged.
We'll see some of those restrictions lifted.
But that's about all that I could comment on at this point because I see the same things that you do in terms of the press.
And it is unfortunate they often do not pick up the fact that this is a very efficient irrigation method that really uses less water and grows more food.
Got you.
And then secondly I may have missed it are there any specific operating synergies or marketing wins that have come about immediately from the purchase of Claude Laval or are about to come about near-term? Well nothing specific but I would say the -- it was very interesting.
Right after the acquisition was announced we had some of our dealers who we really weren't aware they had specific applications for contacting Claude Laval Corporation right away looking to buy some product.
And we've had some of those wins that did take place nothing I'd call of significant scale yet but it'd instantly take place.
And I'm just really pleased with that.
And at this point we're having dealer seminars across the United States with our people conducting the normal sales seminars that we have every year.
And the LAKOS people are participating in those seminars.
And there's a great deal of interest from our dealer network in applications of their products.
So pretty optimistic about this.
I think it's been a really good start and I think we'll find a fair amount of synergy.
Your next question comes from Joe Mondillo with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> So the backlog if you exclude the Iraq -- that small $4.5 million of the Iraq contract is up -- still up marginally.
And I'd imagine domestic is down.
So I was wondering is international offsetting that or is it more so on the infrastructure side of the business? Well this is Jim.
And I would say that certainly the international business has continued to see good order volume and there's a good amount of year-over-year improvement in the backlog in international.
As we mentioned the infrastructure is up but to a smaller degree.
So it's more on the international side.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then -- so staying on international I saw -- you're still seeing rising crop stalks elsewhere in the world like we're seeing here domestically and prices are being weighed upon as a result of that.
I know the backlog is sort of very near-term.
So has anything sort of changed within the last say 3 months within that international market having seen the rising crop stocks and such and prices to your sort of outlook over the next sort of year or so? No we haven't seen any change of significance in any of the international markets.
And I believe that there's generally more of a lag effect from what we've seen in the past when there is a change where it would take place in some of the international -- most of the international markets a little later.
But I also think there's some additional drivers in the international markets for mechanized irrigation.
For example the global food security issue where we've seen expansion of agricultural lands in Africa and Russia and Ukraine and different parts of the world for that global food security need to meet the population growth.
So I think those will continue to be good strong drivers.
There certainly could be some shorter-term impacts due to commodity price changes and stocks building but we haven't really seen that of significance yet.
The other factor that does come into play at times for example in Brazil is financing cost.
And financing for purchasing of equipment has been very favorable in the 3% to 3.5% range with some government subsidy behind it.
So that's been beneficial to the market down there as well.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just sticking with sort of the international it seems to be that you saw in the quarter domestic sales down and the mix was much more heavily associated with international which usually carries lower margin.
However the margin on the irrigation side was actually quite similar to a year ago.
So I'm wondering is these larger projects comparable to the Iraq contract? Do they sort of carry higher margins compared to the rest of the sort of normal international business that you do? No.
Typically the larger projects often become more competitive bid.
That's not always the case but we do often see that.
So it's not unusual for them to see those with margins in kind of the typical international range or sometimes even a little less depending on the size of the project.
I think in this case it was definitely a mix issue.
We had some pretty good margins in the U.S.
market and the -- some of the offset of course was the Iraq contract from the -- in the international market for the quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just last question if you will.
The orders seem to look pretty reasonable for the quarter.
However that was through the end of August.
And pricing really didn't fall off in terms of corn until September.
So we're halfway through this quarter.
I'm just wondering sort of what you're hearing in terms of the near-term perspective on the domestic markets.
With such a drastic fall-off in prices are we expecting the next quarter -- this quarter and the next quarter to be pretty tough? Well I would still characterize this as difficult to project right now in terms of what the impact will be in terms of the harvest that's taking place.
The type of comments I'm getting from the dealers and from customers today would be that the harvest looks pretty robust.
So we've seen commodity prices pull back.
And at this point it's difficult to project what that impact will be.
And we are in the low part of the season where no one is -- of significance is really putting in a lot of pivots right now today.
Their concentration is on harvest.
So I don't think the order rate or the backlog is a really good indication of what's to come and I don't think we have enough visibility to that right now to really make that projection.
Your next question comes from David Rose with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions that haven't been -- we haven't quite gotten through just yet.
The first is on capacity expansion.
Help me understand you indicated that you'll invest a little bit of the CapEx in capacity expansion but how do you reconcile that if you think business is going to be soft or softer in North America? I mean is it all international that's going to carry you? Or is there something that's a multiyear investment? Well the capacity expansion plans are in the international markets and our overall strategy and practice at this point has been adding capacity in those international markets to support international growth.
There is also international shipments that take place out of the U.S.
factory that at some point will be offloaded to international -- one of the international facilities.
So our expansion will be primarily in those international markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if that's the case then we can assume that your capacity utilization will be down in North America so a higher margin business for you.
What steps will you take to offset the margin compression or the decrementals that we should expect in that business for next year? And how much can you offset? Well first I would not assume that the capacity expansion is going to reduce the capacity utilization in the U.S.
I think that's a managed process from the standpoint of -- as we add capacity in some of the international markets we can make the determination of whether or not it makes sense to shift where some of the product is shipped from.
So I think that's definitely a managed process.
The other side of that is if the market decreases in the U.S.
markets what impact would that have in terms of capacity and capacity utilization? I think that's also part of your question.
Correct? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Jim? Do you want...
Yes.
I think just what I would add is there is -- we have always been pretty flexible in our kind of management of the production within our U.S.
operations and we'll continue to do that as well as we also continue to invest in productivity enhancements as well.
So I mean I think there's a number of steps that we have taken and we'll continue to take with regard to offsetting those kinds of declines.
But there will always be some margin pressure if we're in a down cycle.
So there are some things we can do to offset it but there will be some margin pressure as well.
I would add that...
Research Division</strong> Well no I was just wondering if you can give sort of a magnitude maybe if we're down 10% or so what sort of decrementals you would expect.
Well I think we've said in the past that about 15% of our costs are kind of fixed in labor and overhead so that gives you some idea how you can kind of work through it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the lean initiatives offset some of that? Yes.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And I'm sorry Rick you were about to say? Well no my comment was going to be while we won't make a specific projection or guidance in terms of what that impact would be I would say that we have been very aggressive over the last 4 5 years in terms of lean implementation.
And it's been very beneficial on the upside as we've grown to be able to get more out through the facility.
It's also very beneficial as we've had to contract at different times in terms of being able to take costs out.
So I'm pretty optimistic about our ability to respond to whatever takes place in the market but there is always some impact in terms of capacity utilization if sales were to drop off in some form.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then lastly on the infrastructure side are there any other opportunities to book a $1 million $2 million Road Zipper project over the next 6 months? Or should we assume that we're all waiting for the Golden Gate project until fiscal 2015? No I would not assume that everything is waiting for the Golden Gate Bridge project.
I would say that there are many active projects that people are working and to some extent chasing that could occur at any time.
We've talked about the Golden Gate Bridge more specifically because it's been a publicly published project where they've actually given numbers and things for it.
But outside of that we're working on many international projects including in Brazil and Russia and many other places in the world as well as many U.S.
projects.
So I wouldn't be banking everything on the Golden Gate Bridge project.
Research Division</strong> And those projects you think can book in fiscal 2014? Or is that '15 or beyond? Well now we're getting into trying to nail down when I think projects will be booked.
And I'll just say that there's projects that we always think will be booked in the fiscal year.
The difficulty is as we've seen in the past year or so 1 year or 2 18 months some of the government funding has affected projects in terms of the delay and those types of things.
So I can't really predict when it'll happen but I would say there's definitely ones on the list that we would expect this fiscal year.
Your next question comes from Brett Wong with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you're seeing any major changes in EQIP funding as a result of the budget and base [ph] in the government shutdown? We haven't as of yet seen -- I haven't heard anything major in terms of EQIP.
I think it's probably too soon in terms of what the government shutdown impact would be.
I don't really expect that that's going to do anything because those funds are allocated out.
It could delay some things in terms of where that would normally be applicable would be in the conversion projects but I haven't heard or seen anything yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are you seeing anything on FINAME financing rates down in Brazil next year? I'm not aware of anything changing there yet either.
I haven't heard anything different than what we've seen to date.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a couple -- follow up some previous questions on the well drilling.
Are you seeing an increased number of moratoriums on well drillings compared to previous years? And if so...
Not at this time no.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Ukraine market there's recent news that the Ag Minister unveiled that they're going to get some funding from China.
Do you have any idea how that might play into demand for you guys that $3 million -- $3 billion program? Well we don't.
I've seen articles discussing China leasing significant amount of land in Ukraine.
There's been some very big agricultural projects and initiatives discussed in Ukraine that would include expanding irrigation.
All of that has been going on for about the last year without a significant change taking place.
It's very hard to predict.
And some of it is definitely going to be hard for Ukraine to do because they haven't had the money and funding to be able to support some of the projects they've talked about.
So I really don't know what will happen with those.
We're watching those projects closely.
We obviously believe that Ukraine has some very significant growth opportunities from a mechanized irrigation standpoint.
We'll be on top of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Brilliant.
And just a question on margins.
You talked maybe a change in the discrepancy of the international versus domestic irrigation margin.
And has that discrepancy gotten at all any closer? I wouldn't characterize much having changed in the differences between the domestic and international margins.
What will make that change to some extent will be what we do from a manufacturing standpoint in terms of additional vertical integration in our manufacturing processes to reduce cost.
So I wouldn't characterize anything really having changed there in the international markets to date.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then one last one.
For the LAKOS acquisition how are you planning to report that? LAKOS will be reported within our irrigation business segment.
Your next question is from Chris Shaw with Monness Crespi.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a little bit more on infrastructure what you -- how you're trying to characterize this quarter.
Just for '14 I mean could we expect sort of the $2 million level of profit for each quarter sort of as a run rate? Or is that only going to happen if you get a new Zipper project each quarter? I'm just trying to parse out what's the benefit from that what's the sort of actual real cost savings come in? This is Jim again.
And I guess just a couple of items that I would point out.
I mean first of all there is a seasonality to the infrastructure business basically this summer -- basically through the summer.
So the third and fourth quarters tend to be stronger lower seasonal period just because of the road construction not being significant in the first and second quarter.
So there is a seasonality to it as well.
And then I would also say certainly QMB projects have an impact on when they occur and they -- there isn't a seasonality as much to a QMB project.
So I wouldn't expect a straight line of profitability.
And QMB will impact the quarterly results.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on share repurchase I know your -- the authorization out there but it doesn't look like you did any last year.
I'm just kind of curious as to what -- how you guys are thinking about that right now.
Well as I stated we view that as a great authorization to have for opportunistically repurchasing stock and we will continue to view that.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Or is it either/or with acquisitions? Or is it just -- I mean are you sort of waiting to see what actually you might want to purchase? Or is it just -- you'll use it as a tool if needed? I think the first use of cash is growth.
So whether that's organic or acquisition is always our -- is always the priority.
So I think the -- and then we do have a dividend as well but then the repurchase would be more opportunistic.
You have a follow-up question from the line of Schon Williams with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> A quick follow-up for Jim.
Can you give me the allowance for -- on the receivables the bad debt expense there? The allowance at the end of the year is about $2.8 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it looks pretty similar to the Q3 levels.
So you're still having a little bit of trouble with some of the Chinese customers but it didn't look like it was a material change from Q3 though.
Yes.
I would -- I think that's a good characterization.
I mean there continues to be challenges in the Chinese market with regard to that kind of collectibility.
But I wouldn't say any new issues.
So we're making progress there but continues to be a challenge.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean what's the risk that I don't know you end up having to write-off a lot of those receivables? I mean I don't know does that risk increase as time goes on or that risk decrease as you work with those customers? Well I guess I think the first thing I would say is payments are slow.
That does not mean that we're -- and so there are risks associated with it but it's not that we're not being paid it's just -- it's being -- kind of taking longer than we would like to see it happen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe Rick a question for you.
I wonder if you could just update me on your thoughts about drip irrigation assets.
In the past -- I know in our discussions you talked about drip irrigation having some downside or some disadvantages versus mechanized irrigation.
Has that thought process changed at all? I mean if you had the opportunity to get drip irrigation assets is that something you'd be interested in? Well first I think that drip is a very good product from a standpoint of -- in certain applications.
Certainly in vineyards and orchards and smaller fields I think it's very applicable and works in efficiently irrigating certain types of crops in small field.
Generally when it gets to larger scale if the economy of scale doesn't really work in terms of drip irrigation that said I still like the product and what it does.
The difficulty is I think that the actual drip products of the hose and tape are basically of a commodity in nature much different than the kind of business that we're in with very difficult competition than the kind of markets that we participate in today.
Now I think there's some opportunities for Lindsay in the drip markets in some sense but I'm a little cautious when it comes to thinking about getting into the plastic stuff where I really believe it's much more of a commodity.
Research Division</strong> But if there was something that was a more differentiated product you'd be interested in it though? Certainly if it was differentiated and I felt that there were opportunities for differentiation that created margin opportunities I would definitely be interested.
That's how I would characterize it.
And you do have a follow-up question from the line of Nathan Jones with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on the margin and infrastructure which are obviously very good this quarter.
I think previously we've kind of talked about an $18 million level as being the breakeven level for revenue in the infrastructure segment.
Has your cost takeout actions reduced that number structurally? So we should now be thinking of a lower level of revenue as the breakeven level? Nathan I wouldn't say that it's had a significant impact on the breakeven.
I think the -- but the additional factor to that breakeven is affected by mix obviously.
And so with a QMB project in the current quarter it looks a little bit different.
So the breakeven does change with mix.
So that $18 million is more of a -- kind of an average number.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So kind of this double-digit margin level at $20 million revenue is not something we should be forecasting going forward? Well I think we certainly think there's opportunities to improve the margin within the infrastructure business.
And we've done a pretty good job of improving our gross margins in all of our product lines in 2013 and think we can continue to advance that.
But that will take some time.
And I wouldn't expect that kind of margin in the near term without some contribution from QMB.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And with the DSO stretching out 15 days you said at least partially that was due to contract terms for the project in Iraq.
When do you expect to get paid for that? I would say over the course of the first half of the year.
Mr.
Parod there are no further questions.
Well for our business overall the global long-term drivers of water conservation population growth increasing importance of biofuels and the need for safer more efficient transportation solutions remain very positive.
In addition to the overall business enhancements that have taken place we're focused on seeking accretive synergistic acquisitions.
Lindsay is committed to creating shareholder value for shareholders through organic earnings growth dividends strategic acquisitions and share repurchases.
We'd like to thank all of you for your questions and participation in the call.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes today's call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Justin and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which reflect the management's current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning.
Happy New Year and thank you for joining us today.
Joining me on today's call is Jim Raabe our CFO; Lori Zarkowski our Chief Accounting Officer; and Mark Roth VP of Corporate Development and Treasurer.
Total revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 were $147.7 million approximately equal to the same period last year.
Irrigation segment revenues decreased 4% from the same quarter last year driven by lower mechanized irrigation revenue in the U.S.
And infrastructure segment revenues increase 41% driven by higher road safety product sales and Road Zipper System revenues.
Lindsay Corporation's operating margins decreased to 10.8% in the quarter compared to 15.1% in the same quarter of last year.
Net earnings were $10.2 million or $0.79 per diluted share compared with $14.7 million or $1.15 per diluted share in the prior year.
For the irrigation segment sales totaled $129.2 million in the quarter 4% lower than the same quarter of last year due to significantly lower U.S.
revenue partially offset by increased demand in the international markets and the acquisition of Claude Laval Corporation.
Irrigation operating margins declined to 15.7% of sales from 20.5% last year in large part due to a $2.3 million charge related to a product warranty matter along with fixed cost deleverage of manufacturing and SG&amp;A expenses.
In the U.S.
irrigation market revenues were $79.3 million in the quarter decreasing 18% off of drought-driven sales last year 23% lower than last year when excluding the revenue from Claude Laval Corporation acquired late last fiscal year.
While U.S.
sales are well below the year-ago level demand remained higher than is typical in the first quarter which we attribute to historically high farm income and strong farmer balance sheets.
The expiration of the Section 179 tax depreciation benefit may have driven some sales in the quarter.
However we have only minimal anecdotal evidence of that.
The outlook for the primary selling season remains difficult to predict and we don't really expect to have more visibility into the primary selling season of fiscal 2014 until later in the second quarter.
Despite lower crop prices irrigation revenues -- irrigation remains one of the most significant means of which growers can improve yield through capital expenditures.
In the international irrigation market revenues for the first quarter were $49.9 million increasing 32% over the same quarter of last year.
Revenues increased most notably in South America and Australia.
The increase in South America primarily reflects the continuation of the very strong market we experienced in Brazil throughout fiscal 2013 due to attractive interest rates high commodity prices and state government support for irrigation.
In general international irrigation equipment revenues are more volatile quarter-to-quarter than in the U.S.
market due to the project nature of some of the individual markets.
We expect the lower commodity prices will impact irrigation equipment demand in many of the international markets.
However the timing is less clear due to the continued drive for food security including government support for efficient irrigation.
During the first quarter we continued to see solid ordering and quoting activity in most all international markets.
Infrastructure segment revenues were $18.5 million in the quarter increasing 41% from the same quarter of last year while sales increases from Road Zipper Systems road safety products and rail products.
The infrastructure segment generated operating income of $0.5 million in the quarter compared to an operating loss of $1.3 million in the first quarter of last year primarily due to increased revenue and a larger mix of Road Zipper System sales.
In addition we received a $12.7 million order from the Golden Gate Bridge Highway and Transportation District during the quarter that will likely be installed in the first quarter of fiscal 2015.
While we're making progress in returning the segment to profitable growth we expect infrastructure demand will remain challenging and sales will remain lumpy as government spending for infrastructure projects improve and as new Road Zipper applications are developed worldwide.
We are pleased with the progress being made.
Gross profit in the first quarter was $40.2 million or 27.2% of sales versus $42.9 million or 29.1% of sales in the same quarter last year.
Gross margins in irrigation declined by approximately 2 percentage points due to a $2.3 million charge related to a product warranty issue.
Excluding this charge U.S.
irrigation gross margins improved but were offset by lower margin international sales.
Infrastructure gross margins improved by approximately 5 percentage points due to a mix shift to higher margin infrastructure products including an increase in Road Zipper System sales.
Operating expenses in the first quarter increased $3.6 million.
The increase in the quarter expenses included $2.1 million of operating expenses associated with the newly acquired Claude Laval Corporation and $1.2 million of higher personnel expenses.
Operating expenses were 16.4% of sales for the quarter compared to 14% of sales for the same quarter last year.
Including the acquisition we expect SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue to return to historical levels of approximately 15% of revenue for the full year.
The order backlog of November 30 2013 was $86.6 million compared to $85.1 million on November 30 2012 and $66.5 million on August 31 2013.
Year-over-year backlog for international irrigation and infrastructure increased while U.S.
irrigation backlog declined.
The infrastructure segment backlog includes the $12.7 million order for the Golden Gate Bridge project.
U.S.
irrigation backlog at this time of year typically represents less than a month's revenue.
Backlog for international irrigation and infrastructure typically contains some longer-term projects such as the Iraq contract and the Golden Gate Bridge project.
As a result current backlog is not a good indication of quarterly revenues.
Cash and cash equivalents of $151.8 million were $400 000 lower than the same time last year while debt decreased $3.2 million.
Accounts receivable were $33.2 million higher year-over-year primarily due to the Iraq contract and inclusion of Claude Laval Corporation.
Inventories increased $8.4 million due primarily to the acquisition and inventory turns improved.
Included in our earnings release and under a separate release the company has also clarified its plans for capital allocation and announced specific actions to enhance shareholder value.
Our first priority for uses of cash remain investing in organic growth.
We expect $20 million to $25 million of annual capital expenditures in the next 3 years focused primarily on productivity and capacity enhancement as well as continuing to invest in our substantial growth opportunities in international markets.
Second we are committed to annual increases in cash dividends and our doubling of our quarterly dividend to $0.26 per share providing a meaningful yield increase to shareholders that more appropriately reflects our recent and expected cash generation.
This increase in the dividend will not limit our ability to invest in organic growth initiatives or to make synergistic value-creating acquisitions.
Our acquisition focus is directed on water-related acquisitions that enhance our competitive position and offer attractive returns to shareholders.
We expect acquisitions to total $100 million to $150 million over the next 3 years.
In addition we plan to opportunistically repurchase between $100 million and $150 million of company stock over the next 24 months taking into account the cyclicality and seasonality of the business.
Our Board of Directors has now approved a total repurchase authorization up to $150 million.
It's important to note that this capital allocation plan was developed taking into consideration what we believe are significant revenue and earnings growth initiatives and by talking with and listening to our shareholders.
We would like to thank the many institutional shareholders that took the time to provide their thoughts on the various value-creation priorities our management team and board considered.
In summary sales continued at record levels in the first quarter.
However the mix has changed notably from the same time last year.
U.S.
irrigation equipment demand declined from the same time last year while we achieved growth in international irrigation and infrastructure markets.
Sales for the remainder of the fiscal year remain uncertain due to our lack of visibility into the primary selling season for irrigation equipment.
Due to the significant decrease in relevant agricultural commodity prices we continue to anticipate lower U.S.
irrigation revenues for fiscal 2014 versus the record level of 2013.
Regardless of where we are in the Ag cycle we are very optimistic about the future of mechanized irrigation globally.
Food security needs along with limited land and water will drive the need for efficient food production.
For the infrastructure business government spending on highway and other infrastructure projects remains an impediment to achieving consistent market growth although we believe we have sizable market penetration opportunities for road safety products Road Zipper Systems worldwide.
And we have recently seen positive signs of increased infrastructure activity.
Finally in addition to our organic growth opportunities in irrigation and infrastructure we continue to pursue strategic synergistic acquisitions that further differentiate our product position and add new growth opportunities.
I would now like to open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Nathan Jones.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I understand that visibility is limited into what demand is going to look like for the rest of the year but I wonder if you could kind of help us think about the possible scenarios given your long experience in the business.
If we end up with revenue down 10% for the year where -- what kind of margin compression would you think about there and if it's 15% if it's 20%? If you could just give us any more color on kind of the decremental margins or the deleverage on that volume we might look to expect? Well I don't really want to get into guidance in this or really specifically the deleveraged amount other than to say that our big challenge as we see market shift is to really take out cost as rapidly as we can or appropriately to whatever's happening with the market.
And I think we've demonstrated in the past that we're very responsive to market conditions and can take out cost pretty rapidly to prevent that erosion.
I think the other factor that come into play often is the competitive situation.
So as the market contracts we've seen cases where the competitive pricing will change and become more aggressive.
And that tends to put a little pressure on gross margins.
We've seen factors of that type that have played into it.
So it's a difficult one to predict.
And every situation is a little bit different.
But I would say we probably are very effective in terms of responding internally with appropriate reductions.
However we're not in control of what happens from a competitive position.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well given what you just said there can you outline what plans you've implemented and what plans there are to implement in terms of taking cost out in the face of this what looks like a cyclical downturn in demand? Well I would characterize that Nate as starting -- when we started the fiscal year we began with not only our business plan but also contingency plans in terms of looking at best-case and worst-case scenarios as we often do.
And we have continued to monitor the market conditions from the standpoint of being prepared to take action as necessary.
Now let's say that one of the more immediate actions we've taken is holding back on some of the planned spending that would have taken place given potential growth opportunities that we would see.
But outside of that nothing really specific in terms of significant reductions.
I would say that we have a cautious view right now looking into this next season to see what's going to happen.
And we're prepared to take action as necessary.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So at the moment there's no headcount reduction plans in place? Nothing specific that I'm really prepared to talk about at this point.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you talk -- I think you said that outside of that the warranty charge gross margins for U.S.
irrigation were actually up year-over-year.
Is that correct? Yes Nathan.
This is Jim.
That's correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's I think a pretty good result considering that core revenue was probably down about 25% x the acquisition.
Can you talk about the dynamics there or what you've done to allow you to kind of hold those margins despite the pretty significant year-over-year drop in revenue? Sure.
Yes first of all I think our team in our manufacturing plants have done a very good job in kind of managing the dynamic of the volume shifts that we see.
I mean we've always had a fairly good LEAN approach to things.
And we're always working towards adding efficiencies into our plants and our manufacturing processes.
And so that's always a part of it.
Just on a more macro level pricing -- the pricing side of things in the U.S.
market has been -- has remained to be pretty strong.
We've picked up a little bit of margin on the pricing side.
We did deleverage a little bit on the cost.
As you mentioned the -- on the fixed cost side as you mentioned.
The volume is down so that did offset some of it.
But I think the combination of productivity within our plants as well as some of the strength of the pricing has contributed to where we are in the margins.
Now as Rick mentioned it's difficult to predict how that pricing is going to hold through the selling season because it really is the primary selling season when we're more likely to see pressure if we're going to get pressure.
So I don't know that it's necessarily a good indicator of what we expect into the selling season but it certainly held pretty well through the current period.
And your next question comes from the line of Brett Wong.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to see if you could provide some more color on where the growth in the infrastructure segment came from.
And if you see that kind of being improvement here going forward.
Well I would characterize it in a couple of different ways.
One there was an additional Road Zipper System project which was a project in Hawaii that's in process.
And that was part of it.
The other was as I mentioned early on in the comments the -- was growth in our road safety products and in our rail products.
And both of those I would attribute to aggressive selling processes and everybody really stepping up and some benefits that we've seen in terms of additional spending in the market.
But I think more of it is the opportunities that we've seen where there are opportunities for us to take additional market share.
Research Division</strong> And so do you see that spending improving here going forward? Well we've seen some slight improvement in overall infrastructure spending that's been beneficial without a doubt in road safety products.
There's definitely more projects taking place.
I think the other part where I'm probably even more encouraged right now is the activity that we've seen in the Road Zipper System or QMB-type sales opportunities that are taking place around the world.
So our people have been working on projects all around the world and one of them that we were working on may be something that could fall into this year.
We've got projects that we're working on today and meeting with people in the last month or so that could be 2 years out.
But there -- the pipeline is really pretty active.
So from that standpoint I'm very encouraged.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the acquisition front are there targets that you have in the pipeline? And can you provide any color into what those are and timing? Well I would characterize it as there's always targets in the pipeline.
Last quarter I was probably very optimistic on a couple of specific targets that we were working on.
Some of those have shifted a little bit or a couple of them where one it's probably not as likely as I thought it was at that time due to some issues but we're continuing to have discussions.
And another one that's probably moved out some.
So these are -- it's constantly changing.
But I would say right now our pipeline in terms of acquisition candidates are more active and more full than it's been for a while.
I would let Mark Roth see if there's anything he would want to contribute to that.
But we do have a pretty active pipeline nothing that I would describe as eminent today.
Yes this is Mark Roth.
I would say our process is active.
And with regards to our strategy we remain focused on synergistic water-related acquisitions of which some specific areas like pump systems and filtration of which we really do like the Claude Laval acquisition because it gives us the synergy in irrigation but yet provides us some exposure to some industrial markets.
So we'll remain active and very proactive in the acquisition side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the Claude Laval acquisition.
Is that odd million dollar first quarter run new figure a good run rate going forward? Excuse me what was -- what number were you quoting? Research Division</strong> I -- just kind of backing into it given the commentary around domestic irrigation being down 23% excluding the Claude Laval acquisition.
Right yes.
Well the number we quoted was related to the domestic business -- or the decrease was related to the U.S.
business and what Claude Laval Corporation contributed to that piece.
There is also an international piece.
I think just the one point that I would make is we don't typically talk about individual business unit sales but we had indicated that the annual sales for that business was around $25 million to $30 million.
This is a little bit of a seasonal slower period for them but that business is tracking to what we expected when we acquired it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what portion of that's domestic versus international if you could break that out? This is Jim again.
And the -- it can fluctuate from time to time.
But I would say that generally it's 2/3 domestic and 1/3 international.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one last one for me.
I'm just wondering if you could provide a more color on the warranty charge.
What that was and if there's expectations of any charges in the future? Well the specific warranty charge was related to a new product that we launched that was essentially a very good product.
And it's our NFTrax product out in the market.
And it's a interesting little challenge because we really didn't have customer reported issues with it.
But we saw some cracking in the tracks that our customers believe is really not much of an issue and probably something that would -- is more of an expectation change than anything else.
But we're not happy with this in terms of we really want to get to the bottom of why the cracking is taking place and what we can do to prevent that earlier.
The cracking is -- we're seeing it earlier than what would be expected.
And we think that from a brand standpoint and our product expectation standpoint we need to take a look at what we can do to change and improve this.
So that's what the warranty charge was for.
I wouldn't anticipate any more related to that.
I think we've taken a pretty conservative approach on this much more conservative than even our customers would prefer.
And your next question comes from the line of Schon Williams of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk a little bit back on the acquisition strategy.
I mean $100 million to $150 million seems a bit more aggressive than what you've been able to realize in the past several years.
And I just want to -- I want to try and understand what do you think has changed that would allow you to do that pace of acquisition kind of versus what recent history has been? Yes.
It's a difficult one to answer from the standpoint of saying that it certainly is not a sure thing.
I would say that there's not a lot that has changed.
What we have seen is that our acquisition process in terms of identifying candidates around the water-related core that we're talking about is better than it has been in the past in terms of identification of those as Mark mentioned whether they're pump station-type acquisitions or filtration and things of that nature.
And we've also seen in some cases more willing sellers than what we've seen in the past few years which does help the situation.
Now it's still difficult to predict.
And we've estimated $100 million to $150 million.
However it's a very difficult one due to the fact that you need willing sellers.
And that's why I think the -- when we look at our capital allocation plan in total it's important to look at the fact that we're also looking at any excess cash or capital that we have sitting.
We really need to be aggressively looking at investing that from creating shareholder returns.
And that's beneficial to all of us as a management team in terms of our incentives and beneficial to our shareholders.
So from a capital allocation standpoint we will aggressively be looking at share buybacks and other things in terms of enhancing returns while we're continuing to look at those acquisitions.
Research Division</strong> Just so I understand I mean should I look at the acquisitions and maybe the share buyback as kind of mutually exclusive? If there's no activity on the acquisition side of the ledger that you'd be using cash flows to go back and buy and that's why we kind of see that $100 million to $150 million kind of -- those are the kind of numbers we're talking about across both categories? I wouldn't look at them as mutually exclusive.
I would look at we would intend to do both.
We would be considering debt for acquisitions if we find the appropriate acquisitions that really do create the value that we believe can be done.
And at the same time we'll be investing cash in share buyback.
This is Mark Roth too.
I think when you look at the capital allocation plan put in place and the commitment that we've made to the 24 months time period for the $100 million to $150 million of share repurchase I think it is important to note that the simultaneous view of acquisition in conjunction with share repurchase we're going to be active on both fronts simultaneously like Rick stated.
So that's important to know.
Research Division</strong> And is there any reason why we would expect the pace of the buyback I mean to not be equally distributed over that period? Obviously as acquisitions come in that that would be in play.
But is there -- I don't know should we expect you to be more I don't know front-end loaded back-end loaded? Is there anything that would kind of -- are there any other variables that I should be thinking about in terms of the pace of the buyback? I would say given again the caveat of looking at our business as cyclical and seasonal and given the fact that we've put this into a timeframe we're going to be opportunistically looking for repurchase periods over the course of the next 2 years.
However we will be in the market quite often given the amount that we've put in the repurchase plan.
So you'll see -- you'll probably see activity in most quarters.
However we're going to remain opportunistic in our repurchase methodology.
Research Division</strong> So to ask this another way I mean seasonally we should be expecting maybe more aggressive activity in the back half of the year just given the cash flows are generally better during that period? I don't necessarily think that we could put a timing to that.
And I wouldn't say that on the back half of the year.
I think we've gone into this repurchase plan with a cash position that we're comfortable with executing on both the repurchase and the acquisition side in conjunction with the fact that we're debt-free at this point and we have debt capacity.
The stock repurchase will not affect our ability to make the acquisitions.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Then one last one for me.
Just any update on where we are in terms of new leadership for the infrastructure division? I'm not exactly sure of the question but the new leadership was appointed to the infrastructure division very quickly.
And I think I made the comment last quarter I'm very confident with the new leadership that has been appointed somebody from internal and it's working very well.
Research Division</strong> I mean any comments on I don't know new -- I'm just trying to think is there any low-hanging fruit that we should expect kind of out of the gate anything? Has the strategy changed there at all for the near term? No I wouldn't characterize it as any kind of a strategy change.
I would just say that there is definitely a sense of urgency.
There's definitely a sense of aggressiveness in the business.
And there's definitely a different execution approach.
And your next question comes from the line of Tim Mulrooney with William Blair.
I'm sorry.
I didn't hear from the operator.
Who is this? This is Tim Mulrooney with -- for Brian Drab at William Blair.
I have just a couple irrigation questions.
First off could you provide us with some more insight into the pipeline in your international irrigation business? Do you think it's possible that given the first quarter result that the international irrigation could be up this fiscal year despite the large project in Iraq last year? Yes I think it's possible.
I really am not going to give guidance or make an estimate on that.
I would say that a lot of the international markets are somewhat project impacted or affected.
So as we see large projects come in whether it's the Middle East or it's Russia or Ukraine or wherever it is anywhere in the world they can have a sizable impact on international irrigation at any point in time.
And we also have a very active project list in irrigation at this stage primarily international projects that are very sizable projects.
However the timing of those are also difficult to predict.
So it is a possibility.
I'm not projecting anything at this point.
I also think it's important to note that the international markets are impacted by global commodity price changes as well and it does at times affect the institutional investors or the investors that are getting into agricultural projects and their timing of getting into those projects.
So we could also see delays in some of the projects that we would anticipate falling into this year.
So I think it could go either way.
But it definitely could be more and it could be less.
And I'm really not making a prediction at this time.
Okay great.
Just one more on the domestic side.
Are your dealers seeing an impact from the expiration of Section 179? Did they see -- or did you see any pull-forward in December? And do you think that this will materially impact pivot sales in 2014? We had minimal anecdotal comments or evidence of any kind of a pull-forward on Section 179.
And I would say the majority of the people that I've heard from talked to -- or that our people have talked to are really not indicating any pull-forward on the Section 179 of any significance.
I think more interestingly the order rate had held up quite well given the farm -- farmers balance sheets plus farm income in the past.
So they've been in a pretty strong position.
Even though commodity prices have decreased farmers have remained pretty optimistic and pretty bullish.
I really don't know how that -- if that sustains into this next selling season.
That's why we've been cautious in our projection.
But we don't believe that Section 179 has played a big role in that at this point.
And your next question comes from the line of Ryan Connors of Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> A question on U.S.
irrigation side Rick just regards to geographies within the U.S.
I know that when the drought came along there was a lot of disproportionate growth in the eastern part of the Corn Belt dry land conversion and so forth.
So can you give us an idea as you're starting to see that moderation from the peak level what the contribution is to that from kind of the plain states and the eastern part of the Corn Belt? And I guess also the analysis you typically go through on dry land versus conversion versus replacement and so forth.
If you can kind of give us an update there that'd be helpful.
Well I think the comment on -- to comment on where the geographical region of the changing has taken place I would say that it's been primarily in the same regions that we've seen where the increases took place.
So it's been relatively consistent in terms of that pullback.
It's been primarily the Corn Belt in the same regions where we saw the increase.
And I'd say probably even more so on the eastern region from the standpoint of the areas where they were more drought affected.
And we saw significant increases in those areas where we weren't seeing the irrigation revenue growth in the past.
Now that's pulled back and dropped back to more normalized levels.
In relation to the other question what we saw this past quarter is roughly 40% of the systems sold went into dry land 26% into conversion and 34% into replacement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So does that kind of imply Rick that if you -- some of the other manufacturers of agricultural equipment actually saw sales hold up pretty well in the fourth quarter in the most recent quarter.
Does that kind of imply that the weakness you've seen from the peak so far is more a function of the drought conditions having abated than really the commodity prices per se? Or is that -- would you not agree with that characterization? I think it's really hard to parse that into pieces in the sense of they're very closely related.
The drought areas certainly were significantly impacted in the past in terms of -- from a positive standpoint in terms of buying equipment.
And we have seen that pullback.
But also the commodity price has played a large role in it as well.
So I think it's really a combination of the 2.
And they are very closely related.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a separate kind of one-off question.
There was an interesting acquisition by another company that -- in the space called Trimble of a company called IQ Irrigation back in the third quarter.
And I'm curious my understanding of it is that it's technology that's not all that dissimilar from FieldNET.
And so I'm curious how -- whether you're aware of that deal and if so how that impacts your FieldNET outlook and whether that impacts your competitive position at all there.
I recall the acquisition.
I remember looking at the specifics of that one.
I believe it's not really a FieldNET-type product but they do -- Trimble does have a product that they're making a number of acquisitions to tie into their product.
And it was an interesting acquisition.
One that is a company that we had looked at at one time or another.
And I wouldn't call it a FieldNET-type company.
So we do see that there is some competition moving in the direction that we do in terms of more of the let's say smart farm and the intelligent irrigation in the field.
So we see a little bit of that taking place but it's not -- that was not a significant factor from our standpoint from a competitive standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so I take from that that there's no view that somehow the technology migrates towards some of the technology players like Trimble at the expense of your ability to upsell on things like FieldNET and so forth? Well I think there's always going to be a push for some of the other equipment manufacturers to pull in some of that technology and get into some of that space that let's say we're providing solutions for from our intelligent irrigation systems.
And we expect we will have more competitors and some of the larger companies getting into that space.
However I don't believe that changes our competitive position in any way.
And we will continue to build out our strength and capabilities in that area.
And your next question comes from the line of Andrew O'Conor with BMO Asset Management.
How would you guys see a generally strengthening U.S.
dollar impacting Lindsay's international irrigation sales over the next quarter or 2? Any comments you have appreciate it.
This is Jim.
And I don't really anticipate that having a significant impact.
I mean we do also have international manufacturing locations that help us to offset that and continue to expand those capabilities that we continue to build out.
But we haven't seen much of an impact to date.
And I wouldn't anticipate a large impact at this point.
Okay.
And then secondly do you guys see any surge in demand for Lindsay's irrigation systems in California to help alleviate the ongoing drought there? I would describe it as we've seen some consistent improvement in demand in California over the last few years.
However I wouldn't describe it as any kind of a surge in demand.
I think there's definitely increased interest.
We've seen also a reduction in some farmland in California that has been traditionally let's say water gravity irrigated moving out.
But we think that there is still a good opportunity in California but it's not a fast process.
And your next question comes from the line of Joe Mondillo with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One I was wondering if you can talk about the spread between input prices and output prices.
It seems like you probably got a pretty good benefit from that spread widening over the last several quarters.
And with steel prices starting to rise just wondering if you have any thoughts on that.
Yes this is Jim.
And I would say we really haven't seen much of a change in steel prices overall although there has been talk of increases.
It's a question of whether those prices would hold.
I would say there have been other of our component prices that have had some increases to them though.
But I think your general comment is correct.
We have seen some improvement in our gross margins because we've had a fairly strong pricing environment and a relatively modest input cost environment.
But it is kind of a question of how that holds because of the pricing comments we've made earlier as well as that there is some talk of some pressure on steel although we haven't seen any hold -- anything hold yet.
This is Rick.
I'd just add to that point that while we have seen that pricing pressure we typically will have 2/3 of a quarter or more covered in a forward buy or a hedge of some type on steel.
And at this point I believe we're covered through all of the second quarter in terms of the projected usage.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And then moving on to the infrastructure segment.
And just wanted to clarify I guess the Golden Gate Bridge and then I just want to go into something else.
But in terms of the Golden Gate Bridge project correct me if I'm wrong you said that that $12.7 million backlog that you recorded this quarter will hit in the first quarter of '15? I think the installation of the project is scheduled for -- at the end of the calendar year which would be roughly our first quarter.
We will be manufacturing and delivering in advance of that.
But likely a good majority if not all of the revenue will be in 2015.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then that project is roughly a $25 million project.
Is that right? Are you going to record any additional business related to that? Or is that $12.7 million backlog sort of the extent of what you guys are going to realize from that project? That $12.7 million is the extent of what we would realize.
There -- it is a larger project.
There is other work that's being done on the bridge but it's unrelated to the Road Zipper System that we're putting in.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just additionally in terms of the segment overall backlog excluding the Golden Gate project could you talk about that? And just how has that been -- excluding the Golden Gate how has that been trending lately? And what your expectations are there going forward? Was that question specific to infrastructure? LLC</strong> Yes infrastructure.
Specific to infrastructure.
I think generally speaking I think our infrastructure business has seen good volume.
And excluding the Golden Gate Bridge project we've seen good order taking across the infrastructure business.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So you have a pretty good feeling that things will continue to improve in that segment? Yes.
It's always a little bit difficult to predict because that business can be -- it is project-related.
It can be lumpy.
But as Rick alluded to earlier we've had a change in management of a little bit more aggressive approach.
And I think we're seeing good progress on that side.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just my last question related to the international business.
It sounds like you're maybe a little more cautious on international just given I guess where crop prices have gone.
I just had a specific question in terms of your business in China.
I was wondering if you have any color on that.
And if we see a slowdown in China any insight on how that may affect the overall international business? Our business in China is in a large part government-subsidized.
So if there is a slowdown in China that affects government subsidies and projects then we would definitely expect to see some slowdown there.
However I'd say that we've seen this periodically in the last couple of years where government tenders will occur in 1 year and may drag out or not occur in the next year.
So it's still been very lumpy there as well somewhat tied to government funding somewhat tied to their economic changes and things that are happening.
So we do expect that there could be an impact in China if there's a real slowdown.
I think the other part you made the comment of being more cautious about the international markets I'd say that I'm extremely bullish on the international markets in total in the sense of the growth potential of Brazil and Russia and Ukraine and Eastern Europe Africa China all of these markets in terms of their overall growth potential.
I do believe that they are in many cases project-oriented.
So we will see some lumpiness in those.
And commodity price changes can affect the timing of those projects and timing of people investing in them.
But from a long-term standpoint the projects will take place and the growth will occur.
And your next question comes from the line of David Rose of Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-up questions.
You mentioned the commentary from the dealers is generally fairly positive though you see the corn prices -- or grain prices down.
Your comparisons also become easier.
I mean you were up 59% in domestic irrigation last year.
So the comparison is easier and with your dealer commentary perhaps not as negative.
What level of corn prices do you start to feel more comfortable that the market improves? Is there a level? And speaking to corn maybe there's -- you might want to talk about wheat and some of the other grains.
You're asking if there's a level of corn prices...
Research Division</strong> Yes I mean you're talking about -- yes I mean given the dramatic decline and yet there's a payback that you've articulated many times of roughly $4 a bushel.
And I guess where we're trading at today that it's still fairly attractive.
At what level do you feel more comfortable with the outlook? That's one.
Well there's no specific dollar amount that I would pick in terms of corn price where I would say I'm much more optimistic or even be able to really define what that means at this stage.
I guess I look at it in terms of the -- what's really going to be important coming into this next crop season is both input and output -- basically prices and input cost for farmers as they're planting this next season and what their attitude is looking forward.
So from the standpoint of the spring planting season we really don't know what to expect yet.
And we need a little more visibility to get to that point.
In addition I think that there's other variables other than just the corn price.
But looking at the corn usage and the stock-to-use ratios right now they're very high in terms of stock-to-use ratios more than double where at the same time last year.
So there's a lot of inventory to work down in terms of corn before we can see significant change in corn prices unless something were to happen say another drought or something of that nature.
So they're not really a specific number that I would zero in on or target as the key.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No I appreciate it.
You called out I mean obviously the decline in corn prices is -- or grains has been kind of an overhang.
And so I wasn't sure if there was a point that you'd start to feel more comfortable.
And maybe on the operating expense line if you could follow-up on that.
There were a couple of items that I think that were attributable to higher operating expense part of which was Claude Laval.
What others areas that you might see that might be nonrecurring and maybe you can walk us through.
I think you made some comments on personnel expenses in the press release.
Are there some other key issues that might go away in the coming periods? I think the SG&amp;A cost were a little bit higher than a normal run rate in the quarter because of a few things around equity stock compensation with a little bit of a benefit spike which we tend to see at the end of the year sometimes just because of the way the programs work.
So we did have a few items but the good part of the increase from a personnel standpoint is related to focusing on kind of our growth opportunities including some investments in people in some of our developing markets and also just some overall project-related things related to some smaller systems projects and those kinds of things.
So I think there were a few things that made the cost a little bit higher than normal but I wouldn't say those were real significant.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we should expect maybe something slightly lower in the coming quarters but not meaningfully lower? Correct.
And your next question comes from the line of Chris Shaw from Monness Crespi.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess I have a broader question on irrigation business.
Last year in the first quarter you spoke to maybe some pull-forward based on the drought based on farmers trying to get their orders in.
Earlier fearing that there might be so much rush for orders they might not get it.
Now did this quarter you think return back to sort of more normal seasonality? And is there anyway that you can quantify maybe what that shift was at all? I think that the comment that you're referring to from the last year in the first quarter was a true statement in the sense of there was some pull-forward we expected because of the drought.
And we certainly didn't see that impact in this quarter.
So from a more normalized standpoint I would say yes that's true.
This first quarter was more normalized.
On the other hand I also believe that farmers are in a great position from a cash and balance sheet standpoint and have continued to make investment.
But I do think that this was much more reflective of a normalized seasonal flow than what we saw in the previous year.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is that reflected in the balance between the dry land the conversion and the replacement? Was that sort of more normal for a first quarter? I think it does yes.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could switch next just on international.
Were there any besides the Iraq contract finishing up in this quarter? Was there any other large international contract that sort of finished up this quarter? Or was that really the only one? There wasn't really any large international contract that finished up.
And even the Iraq contract does still have some backlog that will finish in more kind of the second and the third quarter.
So but directly to your question there wasn't any large contracts similar to that.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Also when you guys -- I think at the end of the year -- had said that there was $5 million left in the backlog on Iraq.
That whole $5 million did not occur in first quarter? That is correct.
It did not all occur in the first quarter.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I didn't realize that.
And then on infrastructure you mentioned a Hawaii Zipper project.
And I'm just curious is that something that's going to continue to contribute revenues into the second quarter? Or was that a sort of won and done in the first quarter? That was one specific project that was really in the first quarter.
That project I referred to it as "in process" meaning it's still in process in Hawaii but that was -- the revenue occurred in the first quarter.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a more of maybe somewhat off-topic question but actually someone sort of referred to it earlier when they were talking about the FieldNET business or product.
Do you guys -- you sort of spoke to people competitors trying to get -- maybe larger competitors trying to get into that sort of tech or water management tech kind of space at some point.
But are you guys talking to any of those big guys also on collaborations? I just know people like Monsanto DuPont and Deere doing all those sort of precision planting work where they're really bringing a lot of data and tech.
And I would be interested if they're interested at all in bringing in sort of a water management piece to that as well.
Or do you think they're trying to do it by themselves? Yes we are talking with different ones.
And yes I won't get specific in terms of the specific companies but we are talking with them.
And we think in many cases that the better approach for them is to look at tieing into what we're doing with FieldNET than other approaches.
But that is definitely a possibility.
And your next question comes from the line of Kevin Bennett with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the international irrigation business.
I was wondering you called out Brazil and Australia as being strong in the quarter.
I was wondering if you could go through the rest of your major markets in terms of what you saw in the quarter and then what you see moving forward.
Well I think the comment that I would make -- and I did make this I think in the opening -- is that most all of the international markets all of the regions we're selling into most all were up.
The most notable ones were Australia and Brazil.
But we've seen most of the markets holding up quite well.
And I won't get real specific in terms of breaking out any of the other specific markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
And then on the margins internationally can you remind us kind of what the difference was between international margins in irrigation and the U.S.? And then how do you see that gap closing I guess over the next couple of years with your CapEx plans? Yes.
I mean the margin generally is in that 5 to 7 points difference higher in the U.S.
markets than the international markets.
And that has to do with the fact that we are more vertically integrated in the U.S.
market.
That's the biggest factor.
One of the things that we've talked about is adding capacity and productivity into some of those markets as they grow in size and gain scale.
So we would expect that that gap will shift.
But I would say that's a longer over time type of closing of the gap as opposed to anything dramatic.
Because for one thing we have a number of locations.
And as we make enhancements it affects a portion of our international markets not the entire thing.
But we do see that gap closing but it will be more incremental than anything.
And your next question comes from the line of Peter van Roden from Spitfire Capital.
Just a quick question on irrigation operating income margins.
You mentioned it for the infrastructure business but what was operating margins for the irrigation business? I think the operating margin was about 15.7%.
Okay.
And then secondly your DSOs have been creeping up over the last couple of quarters.
They've kind of averaged 50 over the last call it 6.
And then for the last 2 they've been over 70.
What's driving that difference? Yes.
The primary reason for the increase in the DSO is the Iraq contract because it is a longer -- and it did have longer terms.
We do -- we have collected about $10 million on that contract in the quarter.
And the remainder of it should get collected end of the second quarter sometime in the third quarter most likely.
But that's really what's driving it.
I think the other thing that I would just point out is that the international markets do tend to have a little longer terms and so as we see -- longer payment terms.
So as we see growth in the international markets you could see that DSO increase over time a little bit as well.
Okay.
And has there been any change in the U.S.
dealer payment terms as these guys sort of increase inventory? There really isn't much in terms of dealer inventory that's out there.
We don't stock dealers from that standpoint.
Usually in the spring season we might see some dealers carrying a little bit of inventory.
And Dealer DSO has been basically the same really unchanged.
And your next question comes from the line of Brian Gustavson from 1060 Capital.
How big was the Iraq contract? How much revenue did you recognize last year? The total contract was about $38 million.
$33 million of that we recognized last year primarily in the third and fourth quarters.
And you have a follow-up question from Nathan Jones of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> By my calculations even if you spend at the upper end on the repurchase and on M&amp;A you're still going to have negligible net debt on the balance sheet a couple of years from now.
What would you consider to be the optimal level of net debt to run the company at? This is Mark Roth.
I think -- what we've talked about in the past and where we're comfortable from an optimal capital structure is 30% debt-to-capital.
And when we look at current market and debt-to-EBITDA levels anything less than 2x debt-to-EBITDA we'd be comfortable with leverage with the ability that our company has the cash flow generate and pay down debt fairly efficiently.
So...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So with the capital allocation plan you've targeted that's going to probably have you significantly below that optimal leverage.
Why aren't we being maybe a bit more aggressive on buybacks or increasing the dividend or some other form? Is that just dry powder that you can use over the next 2 years and a conservative kind of approach? No I would describe it as this capital allocation plan is a very big step in terms of a very first step in the sense of clarifying our capital use plan.
We need a little more visibility in terms of what the next season looks like and what the next couple of seasons look like given the kinds of stock-to-use ratios and what we're seeing with agricultural commodity prices.
However that could certainly be modified.
While we have $150 million repurchase authorization that could easily change.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just on the tax rate you -- it obviously was a fair bit lower this quarter than it has been.
I assume that is a shift to more profits internationally than domestically than you have seen.
Are you anticipating the tax rate to stay at around the 31% level it is now or to change significantly from there? Well the tax rate in the quarter actually was about 35% a little bit higher than where it has been.
And that interestingly does have to do with mix shift.
And that while we have more business internationally this quarter it is still business that's in fairly high tax rate jurisdictions like in South America.
So the rate that we have in the quarter is about what we're projecting for the year.
So you should expect about a 35% tax rate for the full year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the dividend I know we doubled that but it's still a relatively low dividend yield and payout ratio.
Do you have a target you're aiming at over a longer period of time for a dividend payout ratio? This is Mark.
I think with coming out with the capital plan and the doubling of the dividend we've also stated that we'll continue to look at increasing the dividend.
We don't have a specific target at this time but we'll continue to look at increases in the dividend.
And there are no further questions.
Rick you may begin with closing remarks.
While we anticipate a decline from peak irrigation revenues for the near term drivers for the company's markets population growth expanded food production and efficient water use support our expectation for long-term growth.
Our overall capital allocation plan articulates our plan to continue to invest and attaining revenue and earnings growth combined with a defined process for enhancing returns to shareholders.
I would like to thank you for your questions and participation in the call this morning.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is [Salina] [ph] and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which reflect management's current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Joining me on today's call is Jim Raabe Lindsay Corporation’s Chief Financial Officer; and Lori Zarkowski our Chief Accounting Officer.
Total revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2014 were $152.8 million 13% lower than the same quarter last year.
Sales in the U.S.
irrigation market declined 21% partially offset by a 32% increase in infrastructure sales.
Lindsay Corporation's operating margins decreased to 13.7% in the quarter compared to 16.8% in the same quarter last year.
Net earnings were $13.5 million or $1.04 per diluted share compared with $19.4 million or $1.50 per diluted share in the prior year.
For the first six months of fiscal 2014 total revenues were $300.5 million decreasing 7% from the same period last year.
Net earnings were $23.7 million or $1.83 per diluted share compared to $34.1 million or $2.65 per diluted share in the prior year.
For the irrigation segment sales totaled $135.9 million in the quarter decreasing 16% from the same quarter last year.
Irrigation operating margins declined to 18.1% of sales from 21.7% last year due to the deleveraging of fixed expenses on lower revenue.
In the U.S.
irrigation market revenues were $92.8 million in the quarter declining 21%.
Excluding U.S.
sales from the Lakos filtration business acquired U.S.
irrigation sales declined 25% representing a slightly larger decrease than we experienced in the first quarter of fiscal 2014.
The elimination of the enhanced Section 179 depreciation benefit may have contributed to this decline.
However we believe the most significant impact to sales trend has been the year-over-year declining crop prices.
While we have seen some upward movement in corn prices over the last several weeks they remain more than 30% lower than year ago.
The current forecast for 2014 U.S.
net farm income is 27% below 2013.
For the remainder of fiscal 2014 we expect U.S.
irrigation equipment revenues to continue to be below last year’s levels.
In the international irrigation markets revenues for the second quarter were $43.1 million decreasing $2.4 million over the same quarter last year.
The revenue reductions occurred primarily in the Middle East Russia and Ukraine and were generally related to the timing of specific projects.
While we don’t believe the current political issues with Russia and Ukraine affected the demand in the quarter we do believe the issues now represent a headwind for irrigation equipment growth in the region.
Irrigation revenues in Brazil have remained very strong but are now compared against record revenues last year that along with the substantial completion of the $39 million Iraq project make the potential for increases in international irrigation revenues challenging for the remainder of fiscal 2014.
For the first six months of fiscal 2014 total irrigation segment revenues decreased 11% to $265.1 million.
In the U.S.
irrigation markets revenues were $172.6 million decreasing 19% from the previous year.
In the international markets irrigation revenues were $92.4 million increasing 11% over the previous year with most the significant increases in Australia and South America.
Infrastructure segment revenues were $16.9 million in the quarter increasing 32% from the same quarter last year with the most notable increases in road safety and rail products.
In operating income the infrastructure segment achieved breakeven as compared to an operating loss of $2.1 million in the second quarter last year.
For the first six months of fiscal 2014 infrastructure revenues increased 36% to $35 million with increases in nearly all product lines.
I’m very please with the progress in the infrastructure business and the improvement in performance in the quarter which is the lowest seasonal quarter period for the business segment.
We have aggressively pursued sales growth while improving gross margins and reducing SG&amp;A expenses.
We are confident that we are on the path to returning the infrastructure segment to consistent profitability and value creation.
Gross profit in the second quarter for the company in total was $42.7 million or 27.9% of sale versus $50.4 million or 28.7% of sale in the same quarter last year.
The decline in gross margin represents an overall shift in sales mix caused by the decline in U.S.
irrigation equipment revenues.
Gross margins in irrigation declined by approximately 1 percentage point while infrastructure gross margins improved by approximately 7 percentage points attributable to a combination of sale mix changes and leverage on higher sales.
During the second quarter the company’s operating expanses increased by $800 000 including the incremental $2.2 million of operating expenses associated with the newly acquired Lakos business.
Excluding the acquisition operating expenses declined $1.4 million led by reduction in incentive compensation and marketing related expenses.
Operating expenses were 14.2% of sales for the quarter compare to 11.9% of sales for the same period last year reflecting the revenue declines.
The order backlog in February 28 2014 was $89.3 million compared to $159.3 million at February 28 2013 and $86.6 million on November 30 2013.
Year-over-year backlog for U.S.
and international irrigation declined and infrastructure backlog increased with the inclusion of the Golden Gate Bridge project.
Excluding the Iraq contract from the prior year international irrigation backlog increased year-over-year.
Our backlog typically represents long-term projects as well as short lead time orders is therefore generally not a good indication of the next quarter’s revenues.
Cash and cash equivalents of $165.5 million were $5.9 million higher compared to the same time last year while debt decreased $2.1 million.
Accounts receivable were $6 million higher and inventory was $3 million year-over-year primarily due to the acquisition of the filtration business.
Our current estimate for capital expenditures for 2014 is between $15 million and $20 million.
Our capital expenditure plan investments include the manufacturing operations in Turkey which is planned to be operational early in fiscal 2015.
This plan should accommodate our long-term growth plans in Europe Africa and the Middle East and other developing regions as needed.
During the quarter we repurchased 79 000 shares in the few weeks available while the window was open as part of our capital allocation plans announced January 2014.
We also continue to pursue water-related acquisitions to enhance our competitive position and provide attractive returns to shareholders.
In summary the U.S.
irrigation market has slowed significantly as compared to the past several years of record crop prices under significant drought.
International markets remain active but small and large projects have experienced some delays which we attribute to the declining global grain prices.
Despite the political and cyclical headwinds we are optimistic about the future and are expanding our irrigation equipment manufacturing capacity selectively.
The Infrastructure business has improved its profit profile and generated growth in an environment of constrained government spending.
We believe this business can continue to grow and improve in profitability as we gain share in each of our markets and as we identify and develop new different system applications worldwide.
In addition our balance sheet remains strong.
We will continue to invest in growth and productivity both organically and through acquisition and we will utilize excess cash to improve returns to shareholders.
We believe there are opportunities for strategic synergistic acquisitions that further differentiate our market position and add new growth opportunities.
We will maintain our acquisition discipline to ensure we achieve value creation for shareholders.
I would now like to open it up for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) The first question comes from Brett Wong of Piper Jaffray.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First just wanted to dig into the Eastern Europe issues little bit more.
I’m wondering if you can provide some more color around the previous overall growth expectations that you had in Russia and Ukraine and how the political concerns in the region have now changed those views.
So I think I would address it by talking about the international market in total and we have historically described the growth rates for international markets as double digit in the 15% growth range.
And some of the markets are more developed similar to the U.S.
like Europe and Brazil and likely to respond to what we see in terms of commodity changes.
Many of the other markets are developing that are more project based and Russia Ukraine definitely fit that category and they will be affected by commodity prices as well.
But also by other changes for example the political situation we are seeing and capital availability etcetera.
I’d characterize Russia and Ukraine as - the changes taking place today as being important in terms of producing basically creating a headwind for us going forward.
But I would also say from a risk standpoint our sales in that region have been below 5% of our Irrigation revenues in total so there is not a significant risk to our revenue base.
I do think that we could see some delay in projects given the political situation.
Great.
Thanks.
And then on the Infrastructure side what are your current thoughts expectations around highway funding bills specifically on timing and based on your view what impacts are you seeing for the Infrastructure segment next year? Specific view in terms of the timing of the highway funding -- highway bill funding I really don’t know what will happen with that.
There is obviously many different perspectives.
I do think that getting a longer term highway bill in place will be beneficial to our business.
I apologize for the siren in the background.
We do think that not having that in place today has been really a bit of a difficulty in terms of providing growth opportunities in that market but at the same time we’ve been able to pick up market share and we’ll continue to be aggressive in gaining sales in other ways.
Great.
Thank you very much.
I will hop back in line.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Nathan Jones of Stifel.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
This is actually Richard Hall for Nathan Jones today.
Good morning.
You guys hear me with that siren in the background? Yeah.
I apologize for that.
It happens to be apparently a test but yes go ahead.
Okay.
Sorry about that.
But you briefly mentioned this in your prepared remarks if we think domestically obviously corn price were down significantly year-over-year but [inaudible] the beginning of 2014 and 2013 corn prices are up very significantly about 20%.
And have you heard anything notable any kind of [Technical Difficulty]? One second sorry.
Go ahead.
Did you get any of my question? Yeah.
Could you just repeat that last part you started with have we heard anything? Yeah.
I’m just curious corn prices are up pretty significantly since the beginning of 2014.
Have you heard anything significant from any dealers as far as tone or confidence on a quarter-over-quarter basis for the year? No I think the way that the dealers would describe it is -- would describe it is that they had seen difficulty during the first quarter and at the end of the first quarter into the second of still a significant amount of enquiries and quotes and lot of activity but more difficulty in terms of just getting the deals closed.
I think that remains the situation today.
There is still lot of interest.
It may not be certainly as high as it was last year.
But getting those turned into closed orders has been more difficult for them.
That’s how the dealers would characterize it.
Okay.
Great thanks.
And then switching over to infrastructure I guess could you provide us with any update on the Golden Gate project.
If there is any I mean I recall you expect the first that revenue to hit and first -- the beginning fiscal 2015 and substantially get most out - I guess have the project finished by the end of 2015.
Is that still the case? Yeah.
That project is beginning from the standpoint of – we’ve begun production on many of the components for that on the elements of the project.
And that will be we will begin installation on that I believe it’s in the fall of this year.
So we’ll see that revenue next year.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Drab of William Blair.
Good morning Rick.
Good morning Jim.
Good morning.
So first question on gross margin so 27.2% in the first quarter and then adjusting for 150 basis points warranty issue would have been 28.7% and looking at the sequentially gross margin moved from that 28.7% down to 27.9% in the second quarter.
So I’m just thinking about the major factors that could impact gross margin sequentially.
We have total revenue up a touch about $5 million.
Typically international irrigation sales are lower lower margins then the domestic sales and international went from 40% or so of irrigation in the first quarter down 32% in the second quarter.
So that should have been a bit of a tailwind for margins.
So I’m just wondering what drove sequentially the 80 bps of gross margin compression as it -- does it have to do with -- my guess is would be it has to do with QMB mix within infrastructure maybe pricing in the irrigation business? Yeah.
Brian I would say that when you talk about it sequentially excluding the adjustment in the first quarter it is primarily mix related.
There wasn’t really anything unique about the quarter but there is a little bit of mix shift in total in the businesses and that’s really where the majority of the shift would have been.
And Jim could you talk any more about the mix shift? Is it within irrigation or was it within the infrastructure business and am I correct in thinking maybe QMB sales stepped down a touch from first quarter.
You sounded a little more -- I think you sounded a little more optimistic about or positive about the QMB results in the first quarter? Yeah.
No it’s really kind of a mix between the businesses more than anything else.
And then I would also say we had a little bit better - in the first quarter we had a little bit better pricing versus cost impact in the core international business where this quarter on a year-over-year basis we didn’t lose margin from price and costs but we didn’t really pick up any margin either.
So there is a little bit of a margin impact there within the domestic business.
Okay.
And then what’s the balance today between -- within irrigation between the large corporate farms in the U.S.
and individual farmers.
How does that break down and what was the -- what did the relative decline look like in each of those categories in the quarter? I can’t split out that percentage of the large farms versus others for you.
At this point I don’t have that segment data but I can tell you that when I look at where the decline took place as is the same situation with first quarter was relatively consistent across the corn-belt region.
We saw still pretty solid sales with specific northwest and few other pockets but across the corn belt the impact was fairly consistent.
Rick am I safe in still assuming I think in the past you said that the individual farmers account for the majority of like 50% to 70% probably somewhere in that range of the sales? Yeah.
They certainly account for very high percentage Brian.
I don’t have a specific amount.
But let’s say that also I characterize customers that purchased more than one pivot as a very high percentage.
In other words one that we have multiple pivots in by over multiple years.
Our equipment would be at pretty high percentage as well.
I think the other observation out of the quarter is that we often talked about is the percentage -- the equipment that we sold that we announced into dry land application or replacement or conversion.
And what we saw in this quarter was about 40% of the machines were going to replacement.
Around the same time last year that would have been about 29% and last year we would have seen about 50% -- over 50% going into dry land this year it was about 39% in the quarter.
So I think that’s showing a significant change due to the commodity price and what the difference is in application of the equipment today.
Okay.
That’s very interesting information.
And the last thing I just ask on are moratoriums we’ve heard a little bit more about moratoriums especially in Eastern Nebraska lately.
Are you feeling the impaction matter that’s relatively minor? It’s relatively minor at this point.
I think we could see more but at this stage I would say it’s relatively minor.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Joe Mondillo with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Hi guys.
How are you doing? Good morning.
The international backlog just wondering if you can give us a little more color on that in terms of the back half of this fiscal year are you anticipating -- I know you’re going up against a very tough comp compared to a year ago.
But sequentially compared to this first half of the year are you expecting sequential growth to sort of similar type of levels that we saw in the first half? I think to go back to the comments I made earlier Joe the international backlog is higher when you take out the Iraq contract and obviously the Iraq contract was a significant element of our backlog in the past.
We really don’t define our backlog or break that out any further for competitive purposes and other reasons in terms of the detail of that.
But I would just say that I think international markets are still performing well.
But as I mentioned also we do have the tough comps particularly in South America and Brazil.
Right.
So I don’t recall how big that -- I don’t know if you -- I think you disclosed something in terms of the Iraq contract but I don’t recall how big that was.
I guess just directionally -- I am not looking for actual numbers but just directionally are you expecting an absolute sequential growth first half to second half? Or are we looking at similar sort of type levels don’t know you know what the backlog? Let me just speak to it -- this is Jim by the way let me just speak to it more from the year-over-year standpoint because last year our international revenues were larger in the second half than they were in the first half.
And I think as Rick alluded to you see some headwinds in the international.
We are not counting out the possibility of having year-over-year growth but obviously it will be much more difficult to do without having the Iraq contract in the back half of the year as well as some of the other political headwinds that we have.
So I make it look at more on a year-over-year basis than certainly a sequential basis.
Okay.
So we could potentially meet the levels that you saw last year even still without that huge Iraq contract? I think it would be very difficult to have growth with the Iraq contract last year.
Okay.
All right.
Good enough.
If it’s possible certainly it is.
I think the concern we have is the Iraq contract completion the comps in Brazil and also what’s happening in Russia and Ukraine today.
And I think that definitely affects -- creates the headwind and affects the ability to see the projects that we did see last year.
Even though they are not significantly material those affect our growth rate for international.
Okay.
In terms of the irrigation margin overall there is a couple different dynamics going on specifically with international is that some gets bigger that sort of weighs on the margin but it looks like if you do the -- it does look like you’re going to see a tough comp in the back half of the year.
So if you do see more international sales as a percent of the total at least compared to the first half of this year it looks like as a percent of the total international will be flowing possibly.
So how do we look at sort of that dynamic versus sort of the deleveraging dynamic on the smaller sales base? In other words is it sort of going to offset and you sort of see flattish type margins that you saw from a year ago or if you still anticipate sort of year-over-year headwind on the margin profile? Well I think that last year we saw -- we actually saw international as a percentage of the total irrigation actually higher in the second half than it was in the first half and I wouldn’t be surprised to see it’s higher again this year.
So that would actually have a little bit of the negative impact on the margin.
Now that does include export business as well from the U.S.
So it isn’t just a U.S.
versus international when you look at the leverage within the U.S.
manufacturing.
So I do think that we will have -- there is certainly a good probability that we will have a higher percentage of international in the second half than we had in the first half and that will have some downward pressure.
And then I would just say we continue to work on how we manage the costs within our plants to reduce the amount of deleverage.
But probably the last thing I would say is as we’ve said in the past the bigger impacts on margin tends to be pricing in input costs and we haven’t seen a little bit of pressure on the field side.
And we don’t have great visibility into the pricing side but if we do see more competitive pressure from in a down cycle that would have an impact as well.
So was in -- in the first half of this year the margin decompression that you’ve seen on the year-over-year comparison has that been largely pricing an input prices or has that been more so international mix or smaller sales base? It’s been larger the mix because we have had the bigger decreases in sales have come in the domestic market where year-to-date our international markets are actually up a little bit.
So as a percentage of total on year-over-year basis the mix is shifted more to the international side.
If you are asking about the second half versus the first half I think the international mix as a percentage of the total will also be higher than the first half.
Okay.
And then just lastly we’re just curious are you guys -- did you see any benefit are you starting to see any benefits from the drought that we saw in the West Coast and how much does the West Coast sort of makeup both your domestic sales? Well to speaking of California specifically it’s not a significant percentage of sales.
It has been a growing market in the last couple years with good potential but it is not the significant or material piece of our revenue.
That drought is not making a big difference at this point.
I think it’s getting to a stage of whether or not farmers will have and has gone through the stage really whether or not farmers will have water available for Irrigation at all.
And that’s the battle that’s going on right now.
And the longer that drought goes on the more severe it could become and therefore if that -- whether or not there’s any irrigation in operation.
But at this point it really hasn’t had an impact on our sales.
I think that there’s definitely opportunities there and the opportunities would be to really see the gravity irrigation or flood irrigation eliminated and switch to more efficient irrigation such as our optimism mechanized irrigation equipment.
I’d like to see the state investing more in it.
They’ve announced some subsidies for changing to more efficient irrigation but we haven’t really seen what that’s going to tail yet.
So with that region sort of less than 5% of your domestic sales I know you have a concentration.
I mean you look at that map of yours with the concentration it looks like you do have a good footprint there but I guess the total sales is just not I think? I don’t have the specific number in terms of the size of what impact that has on our revenue.
I will just say that it’s not a very significant impact.
It is a growing region for us but it’s not a significant impact on our revenue today.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Schon Williams of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Rick you mentioned Section 179 possibly having some effect.
I’m just wondering my understanding was most of the systems had to be installed by December.
Did you see a bit of a rush to get systems out the door and installed in December and then a bit of a drop-off as we moved into January February timeframe? Yes.
Schon you talked about this a little in after the first quarter and we really didn’t see anything we could define as kind of a rush in terms of getting things in at the end of the calendar year.
So I really didn’t expect that this had much impact.
Now we’ve heard since them from dealers is that it did have more of an impact and it wasn’t so much represented as a rush as people were really taking advantage of the enhanced Section 179 probably for many months towards the end of the year.
So it’s a pretty good lower orders coming in and we did see a change and we do believe that it had some impact.
We just really don’t know how much and it’s very hard to differentiate that between the effective commodity prices.
Is there an expectation that that maybe re-implemented maybe at a lower level? I mean our dealers counting on that at this point.
I mean there’s been some talk about possibly maybe after the Fall Elections extended it retroactively through beginning of the year.
I mean I’m just trying to get a sense of what are dealers telling you at this point are they counting on an extension of that or they are not counting on that and more demand we’ve seen as again become more of a functions on just where commodity prices are? The comments I hear from people are that they are expecting or have some level of expectations that it will get reinstated and we will see more enhanced Section 179 in place.
However I think as we all feel like it’s really hard to know what will get approved today.
But that is an expectation that’s been discussed because it has been done in the past.
Can you just help me understand on the buyback and just how the timing works? I know you announced the capital allocation plan in January.
I was assuming there is some kind of blackout period as you get towards the February.
Can just maybe help me understand what’s your corporate policy is and how long the blackout last and just some of the timing issues? Sure.
Basically we follow the blackout period that’s similar to what we follow-up for our officers which is a couple of weeks just prior to the end of the quarter.
So to your point we did start the repurchase after we announced the capital allocation plan.
But there was just relatively short period of time for us to execute repurchases prior to running up against that blackout period.
The other comment I’d make is that as we outlined in our capital allocation plan we plan to invest a $100 million to $150 million in opportunistic share repurchases.
And we plan to have repurchase activity every quarter during the open window period.
All right.
That’s helpful guys.
Thanks for the color.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) The next question comes from Chris Shaw of Monness Crespi.
Hey.
Good morning gentlemen.
How are you doing? Good morning.
You mentioned the timing of projects in international.
There was a strong first quarter for international irrigation.
It’s hard to predict the timing of projects maybe fall to somewhere I guess more concentrated in the first quarter and then just natural course of that and some investment in second quarter.
So a more proper look at how that business is sort of combining -- looking at the entirety of the first half and not just quarter-by-quarter? I’m not sure I got the last half of that question please.
I didn’t understand that.
Crespi</strong> I was just saying is it (indiscernible) to look at the full year or a half year versus the quarter-to-quarter because the projects are somewhat lumpy? I think the nature of the projects that we participate in the irrigation projects are lumpy.
And I wouldn’t read much into the change from one quarter to the next in a sense that many cases and especially in the developing markets like Russia and Ukraine parts of Africa and even China they will be project based.
So the timing slipping may not be really indicative of anything other than the fact that it’s a project and there could be delays in whether you see the land acquisition or various activities that could cause that to happen.
So I wouldn't read more in that and I think looking at it over a six-month period is a better picture looking at it over a full year is a better picture.
But quarter-to-quarter it's difficult looking at the international revenues because of that project level of activity.
Okay.
And then so U.S.
irrigation did you I mean did dealers talk about any impact from weather? I know it’s always -- winter is not the best time to buy irrigation or think about it in a sense.
Did the snow keep people out of the dealerships at all? Did you get any feedback from dealers on that? We haven't heard a lot of feedback regarding the weather other than the fact that some areas is concerned about delay in planting and that means therefore customers making some decisions as well in terms of buying equipment.
So there could be some impact.
I really don't have much more than some general comments on that.
So there really hasn't been a lot more that we’ve heard on the weather impact.
Okay.
Finally on LAKOS I think that if you work back on the percentage growth numbers LAKOS maybe contributed $5 million in sales this quarter.
If that’s right that seems like less than I would have thought? Maybe I’ve got seasonality wrong on that but I thought it would be stronger than I think $5 million in sales? Well I think the math that you're running is off of the kind of with and without LAKOS number that we're giving but that’s domestic number.
So there is international business as well.
And historically they've had up to a third of their business on the international side.
So your math would be more on the domestic side.
Right okay.
Great thank you.
Your next question comes from Kevin Bennett of Sterne Agee.
Hey guys good morning.
How are you? Good morning.
Jim I just had a quick follow-up on the corporate expense line.
It looks like you took a nice step down in the second quarter.
And I was wondering if you could help out for the year is this $3.5 million bucks is good for the rest of the year will it set back up? It is a little bit lower tends to be a little bit lower in the second quarter because we have some of our kind of audit and another costs take a step down in the second quarter.
We also had some benefit on the some of our healthcare costs some of the change that we made in our health insurance program.
So we do expect that to step up a little bit although I would expect it to be kind of in that $4 million range or maybe $0.5 million higher or so balance of the year.
Got it perfect that's helpful.
And then Rick I know you guys are actively looking in the M&amp;A market.
Is there anything you can tell us or help us what you're looking at and how close anything maybe or what you're seeing in the market? Well I couldn't comment on how close we are.
I'd say that we're still seeing lot of activity in the market in terms of a lot of potential candidates primarily around the water aspect of the pumping and filtration side things that we have pieces of today.
And I am optimistic about those however most of them were pretty small.
So we're not really talking about large deals but we're talking about ones that further strengthen our differentiated position but add to growth opportunities for the future? Got it perfect.
That makes sense.
Thank you guys.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
And the final question will come from the line of Peter Van Roden with Spitfire Capital.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Just a quick question on irrigation margins.
Some have been talking about sort of where they think it’s going.
But it seems to me you guys have done a pretty good job of keeping them where they are today given the downdraft in the domestic market.
Can you talk about some of the stuff that you have been doing to kind of keep that steady? I think a couple of key points to this has been one what's happening with the pricing environment and rightly what we've seen in the pricing environment is it is competitive.
So we haven't really seen a significant change in the competitive intensity in pricing.
Generally we had some cost increases that came through the form of steel and some other commodities that we have been able to pass through in terms of pricing.
So that's a big factor in it.
In addition our factor has been very responsive and lot of this has tied to lean the implementation and the fantastic job that our manufacturing and operation has done and been able to respond to higher and lower volumes.
So it has been able to ramp up in the peak of the season and at different times in the peak of the cycle and be able to pull back as needed and thus get more difficult at times as volume come down but it's been very effective in terms of taking cost out as the lower production levels.
In addition we’ve had some small staff reductions minor ones but generally tied to the pricing environment and the reaction from the -- that our factory has made.
Got it.
And then final question for me is you guys talked a little bit inventory was up year-over-year because of LAKOS deal but days have also been creeping up little bit over the past couple of quarters is there any reason for that?  Are you talking days in the inventory? Yeah.
Yeah it's up a little bit just some of that is just some of the seasonality the various part of location increased their inventory a little bit in advance of the third quarter.
So we would expect that to come down over the balance of the year.
Okay.
That's all I have.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I will now turn today's conference call over to Mr.
Parod for any final remarks.
While we have experienced a near-term decline from peak irrigation revenues drivers for the company's markets the population growth expanded food production and efficient water use support our long-term growth goals.
We're committed to create shareholder value through investments in organic growth dividend increases strategic water-related acquisitions and share repurchases congruent with our capital allocation plan.
We thank you for your questions and participation in this call today.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This will conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your line.
Good morning.
My name is Victoria and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker's remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which reflect management's current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Joining me on today's call is Jim Raabe Lindsay Corporation’s Chief Financial Officer; and Lori Zarkowski our Chief Accounting Officer.
Total revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2014 were $169.9 million 23% lower than the same quarter last year.
Irrigation revenue declined 26% from the same quarter last year partially offset by a 13% increase in infrastructure revenue.
Operating margins were 14.8% in the quarter compared to 18% in the same quarter last year.
Net earnings were $16.5 million or $1.28 per diluted share compared with [indiscernible] decreasing 13% from the same period last year.
Net earnings were $40.2 million or $3.11 per diluted share compared to $60.1 million or $4.66 per diluted share in the first nine months of last year.
For the irrigation segment sales totaled $149 million in the quarter decreasing 26% from the same quarter last year.
Irrigation operating margins were 18.8% of sales versus 21.9% last year due to the deleveraging of fixed expenses on lower revenue.
In the U.S.
irrigation market revenues declined 26% to $88.1 million for the quarter.
Excluding sales from Lakos filtration business acquired U.S.
irrigation sales declined 31% in the quarter reflecting the significantly contracted market when compared to last year due to the reduced drought impact and lower crop prices.
Corn prices have declined roughly 30% as compared to a year ago and the current forecast for 2014 U.S.
net farm income while higher than the 10-year average is 27% below 2013.
The elimination of the enhanced Section 179 tax depreciation benefit has also likely contributed to the market headwinds for equipment sales.
However it is difficult to estimate the effect given the change in commodity prices.
As the third quarter drew to a close spring storms across the plains states created additional demand for replacement units aiding revenue somewhat and increasing U.S.
irrigation backlog.
In the international market revenues for the third quarter were $60.9 million decreasing $21.7 million over the prior year quarter.
The revenue reduction was primarily due to the near completion of the Iraq contract which contributed $16 million of revenue in the third quarter of last year and only $400 000 in revenue in the recent quarter.
As noted in the release the escalation of hostilities in Iraq in June has created some uncertainties for completion of the contract as we've been unable to complete installation in some areas of the country.
At the end of the quarter we had a receivable from the contract of approximately $2.5 million which is not yet due.
There is also a $1.9 million performance bond outstanding securing our obligation for completion of the contract.
We do not believe it is necessary or appropriate to establish a reserve for bad debt or for the performance bond at this time but we will continue to evaluate the situation.
In other international markets declines have occurred in many regions compared to the same period last year partially offset by increases in Australia and the inclusion of Lakos international sales.
The combination of lower crop prices delays in government subsidized funding for equipment purchases in Brazil and conflict in Ukraine and Middle East have created near term market headwinds.
It's important to note that year-over-year international sales comparisons will be impacted again in the fourth quarter by the Iraq contract which contributed $17.4 million in revenue in the prior year fourth quarter.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2014 total irrigation segment revenues decreased 17% to $414.1 million.
The U.S.
irrigation revenues were $260.8 million decreasing 21% from the previous year and the international irrigation revenues were $153.3 million decreasing 8% from the previous year.
The international decrease to date is due primarily to the lower contract revenue in Iraq.
Infrastructure segment revenues were $20.9 million in the quarter increasing 13% from the same quarter last year reflecting increases in road safety products rail products and Road Zipper system revenues.
Infrastructure segment operating margin increased to 4.3% of sales as compared to 1.1% in the third quarter last year driven by their revenue increase and cost leveraging.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2014 infrastructure revenues have increased 26% to $56.3 million with increases in nearly all product lines.
While the status of a multi-year highway bill continues to create uncertainty for the near term we're pleased with the progress and improvements in our infrastructure segment and are confident will continue to see growth over the longer term.
Gross profit in the third quarter was $48.2 million or 28.4% of sales versus $63 million or 28.7% of sales in the same quarter last year.
Gross margin and irrigation declined less than one percentage point with the decline primarily reflecting fixed cost deleverage and lower sales volume.
Our sales people and dealers report increased price competition; however we've experienced minimal price impact to date.
Infrastructure gross margins improved by approximately three percentage points on a mix shift and cost leveraging on higher sale.
Operating expenses in the third quarter decreased by approximately $500 000 compared to the same period last year.
Excluding the inclusion of the acquired Lakos filtration business operating expenses decreased $2.7 million with the largest decreases in incentive compensation and bad debt expense.
Operating expenses were 13.6% of sales for the quarter compared to 10.7% of sales for the same period last year reflecting the revenue decline.
The order backlog on May 31 2014 was $73.6 million compared to $80 million on May 31 2013.
Year-over-year backlog for the U.S.
irrigation and infrastructure market increase and international irrigation backlog declined.
The higher U.S.
irrigation backlog reflects replacement of machine orders received at the end of the quarter driven by the spring storms.
The current year infrastructure backlog includes the $12.8 million order for the Road Zipper system project and the Golden Gate Bridge which we expect to recognize in revenue in fiscal 2015.
The prior year international irrigation backlog included $23 million remaining on the project in Iraq which is now down to $2.6 million.
Our backlog typically represents long-term projects as well as short lead time orders and therefore is generally not a good indication of the next quarter’s revenue.
Cash and cash equivalents of $182.1 million were $11.8 million higher compared to the same time last year while debt decreased $1.1 million.
Cash generated from operations over the last 12 months were partially offset by capital expenditures dividend payment share repurchase and the Lakos acquisition completed in the fourth quarter last year.
Our current estimate for capital expenditures for 2014 is between $10 million to $15 million which is down significantly from investments at the beginning of the year due to project timing.
The specific project delayed are generally capacity expansion projects in developing markets delayed by government approval processes or regional conflicts.
During the quarter we repurchased 129 000 shares for $11.2 million and year-to-date have repurchased 208 000 shares for $117.8 million.
We continue to execute against our capital allocation plan announced January 2014.
In summary the U.S.
irrigation market has slowed significantly in recent quarters as compared to the same time last year.
U.S.
irrigation revenues have contracted due to a significant reduction in commodity prices reduction in the central plains drought condition and a reduction in accelerated depreciation benefit partially offset by demand caused by spring storm damage.
International markets remain active but with some projects delayed due to lower commodity prices or by regional conflict.
Despite the current market headwinds we're optimistic about the future and are expanding our global irrigation equipment manufacturing capacity.
The infrastructure business has improved its profit profile and generated growth in a continuing environment of constrained government spending.
We believe this business will continue to grow and improve in profitability as we gain share in each of the markets and as we identify and develop new Road Zipper system applications worldwide.
In addition our balance sheet remains strong.
We will continue to invest in growth and productivity both organically and through acquisition and we'll utilize excess cash to improve returns to shareholders.
In addition we'll continue to pursue strategic synergistic acquisitions that further differentiate our market position and add new growth opportunities.
We will maintain our acquisition discipline to ensure we achieve value creation for shareholders.
I would now like to open it up for any questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Brett Wong with Piper Jaffray.
Mr.
Wong [indiscernible] speakerphone please pick up the handset.
Hello.
Hello yes.
Good morning.
Sorry good morning.
Sorry about that.
There is always some technical problem.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I was just wondering if you can quantify the replacement units in the backlog that will result in the storms.
Well I would say that the revenue gain on replacement of the storm damage machines in the quarter was not really significant and was less than 5% of our irrigation segment revenue in the quarter and in addition the -- for the revenue in the quarter the replacement orders contributed to an increase in backlog for U.S.
irrigation at the end of the quarter.
I would characterize it in that manner.
Okay.
And now you have mentioned that the backlog is typically more longer term.
I am just wondering if any thoughts on timing for some of the replacement units.
For the replacement units that are really very rapid in terms of timing typically what we see in our backlog is that it consists of some longer term projects at times like the Iraq project but then a lot of the other irrigation backlogs that we would have is generally going to turn very quickly and the need for those machines in terms of the storm damage launches is very immediate.
So they would like to have those very quickly.
Is there -- with them coming back in any risk to crop damage or anything like that other than what happened from the storm? There can be and it really depends on the situation but I would say that in some markets it's really dependent on being able to have the irrigation or order to get good consistent crop.
So while you may have some crop damage and going in and taking out the old machine or adding in the new one it's probably a minimal in comparison to losing your entire crop by not irrigating.
Great thanks.
And then just in the domestic market are there any specific regions that you are seeing have significantly more weakness than others? Let's say that the largest decreases we saw were really in the -- as we even talked about in the previous quarter we're in the Midwest corn belt region including the great plains.
This was the same region that was really most affected by the drought last year which fueled record irrigation equipment demand in the past and that's generally where we've seen that change.
Okay.
And are you still seeing some good growth on the Eastern side of corn belt or… Well we've seen good growth in some markets in pockets and I couldn’t really speak specifically in terms of what regions but I would say that the primary region where we've seen the decrease has been the area where we saw the significant increase due to the draught.
Great thanks.
I'll hop back in line.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of [John] (ph) with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi.
Good morning.
This is John filling in for Schon.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hi.
One of your irrigation competitors recently said they're calling for kind of flattish year-over-year growth in the back half of calendar 2014 is that in line with your expectations or you guys seeing something little different than that?  Well we don't really give guidance and I would say that we would really kind of characterize this as we were in the what we consider to be a change in the Ag cycle and obviously from where we were in the past couple of years which were really bullish with the drought conditions that we had.
And I would say that we've really kind of entered this tough period of the cycle where we've seen the lower commodity prices and high ending stocks in corn.
The real question is that we typically get when we see these conditions which we've seen in the past is how long will it last and how far will it go which is very difficult to know because all of them are a little bit different and usually when it takes some kind of a significant weather event of something else to happen in order to change that situation and right now we don't see that on the horizon.
But I think I would necessarily make a projection or give guidance but to say I believe that we're in a different trough -- we're in a trough period now compared to what we've seen in the past couple of years and the commodity prices do make a difference.
We're also seeing that the expansion of new markets in some of the developing areas that we participated in have added more corn acreage which creates a situation in terms of some of these conditions could take longer of the work through in terms of working down stocks of corn or other grains.
So every ones are a little bit different but I would say in the years that I've seen this occur we will work through it and we're very bullish on the long term but short term it may be a little bit tough core period.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then switching gears to infrastructure with the Golden Gate Bridge project you have an update on the timing in fiscal 2015 because I remember seeing an article not too longer that mentioned the total project might be delayed into spring or summer of 2015 but I don't know if you guys had any additional commentary there?  For the last estimates that we've seen on this would really put the revenue recognition for us certainly into our fiscal 2015 and we're probably looking at a January February time period for our work.
That's the latest information I've got.
I don't have anything more current than that.
Okay perfect.
And then just kind of sticking with that are you expecting any significant ramp up in QMB deliveries in Q4 of this year and the kind of normal seasonal uptick in shipments we should expect?  Well again I don't want to get into any kind of guidance or forecast in this.
I'll just say that we continue to work the QMB Road Zipper system market very aggressively with a lot of activity in terms of interest in various markets around the world but really a matter of the point just talking about any specific one or to predict the timing on those.
Okay that's perfect.
I'll hop back in queue.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Connors with Janney Montgomery.
Great.
Thank you.
Couple of questions for me.
First Rick I wondered if you could talk about kind of the price cost dynamics.
I know as you’ve mentioned we're moving into a different point in the cycle in irrigation and obviously that presumably will have some pricing ramifications and yet some of the key input prices and those things for example and in the news about kind of running up lately.
So what's your view going forward on kind of your ability to recoup some of that and maintain margin on the pricing side?  Well first I'll comment on the competitive situation a bit and say that the situation is definitely competitive but not unlike other years and if commodity prices remain at this level or trend lower we anticipate that there will be an increase in competitive intensity which we think we're really well positioned for and in our adoption of lean and our Nebraska irrigation factory is deep and broad in the organization and we've demonstrated the ability to ramp up and ramp down if necessary to minimize the deleverage effect as the market contracts.
So we can't eliminate it but we'll minimize that deleveraging effect.
In addition we look forward in terms of buying the major commodity such as steel and zinc and others that are important to our manufacturing process and in some cases we'll do pre-buys or hedge wherever necessary.
So that's another action we'll take and we can't prevent the competition from really fighting aggressively on price.
We tend to differentiate on offering as much as we can but we're really well positioned to compete wherever this is going to go.
Okay.
And then I guess that kind of segues to my next question one of the ways that you’ve historically differentiated is with technology.
I know the FieldNET system has been very successful.
Can you kind of give us an update on the recent movement in the technology side and how you see that playing out? I know Trimble has gotten a little more active on the irrigation side with their new pivot control system.
I know Ag expense has been -- having some success.
So where do you see that going to and do you think when we can be -- remain as relevant in that side of the business as it has been historically?  One of the things that we do internally is we're very objective in terms of looking at competition and we never get cocky in terms of really underestimating where that's going to go and I would say that our objective view we're seeing a lot more competition more that are kind of focusing in this area in terms of the technology and the offering of a more complete solution from the irrigation information or the let's say growing information part of the cycle.
At the same time I would say that FieldNET has been very successful in terms of market penetration and very successful on delivering on the value proposition that it offers which is very significant and somewhat unique.
We will continue to be aggressive in adding additional features and developing FieldNET and continue to build out that offering in many different ways and while we see competition from some good companies and large companies that's interesting plays for them and new plays for them they're still relatively small pieces and really not the same value proposition that FieldNET offers.
So that's probably where I'll leave it but I would say that this is a very important piece of our business that we will continue to aggressively expand and grow.
Great.
Well thanks for your time today.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Mulrooney with William Blair.
Good morning Rick.
Good morning.
I've a question on your domestic irrigation segment where looking at the model actually this is for total irrigation revenue we see that typically seasonality suggest that your irrigation revenue will decline about 30% from the third quarter to the fourth quarter is there any reason this year we should expect anything different?  One factor that is difficult to factor into some degree is the storm damage aspect because we do have storm damage replacement machines in backlog that will be revenue in the fourth quarter.
As I've said I am not really going to get into guidance or really splitting out that specifically but I would say that it does help our fourth quarter somewhat from a typical year.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And then did you guys give how much Lakos contributed to irrigation in the fiscal third quarter?  We didn’t specifically split that out and I don't really have that number available on hand but we have not specifically split out Lakos revenue and it is split between our domestic and international numbers in the irrigation segment.
Okay.
It's like two third domestic and a third international is that about right?  I couldn’t say.
I don't really know and Jim if you have anything on that.
No it can generally be anywhere from 20% international but two third international.
It will fluctuate but in that range yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
Just one more.
Could you give a breakdown -- sometimes you give a breakdown of domestic irrigation in the quarter with regards to what percent was replacement versus conversion versus dry land do you have that handy?  I do yes.
The replacement percentage was roughly 36% of whole goods shipped.
Dry land was 38% that's adding irrigation for the first time and conversion was 26% that converting from a flood or gravity irrigation.
So we've seen a higher percentage of replacements.
Dry land is still holding up pretty well.
We've seen it during the drought conditions in the high 40% ranges close to 15%.
It's now 38%.
Replacement is still pretty good and part of that I am sure is because of the storm damage machines that were also in replacement.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks Rick.
Thank you Jim.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Mondillo with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Hi guys.
How are you doing? Good morning.
Just wanted to ask you a question on sort of how you're looking at cost controlling.
I know you mentioned ex-Lakos you saw I think operating cost down $2.7 million but I am wondering the detrimental margins are above 40% the last sort of three on average in the last three quarters and with the outlook of a record harvest may be this year translating into down acreage next year just wondering how you are looking at your cost situation and if there is any other levers that you can pull to cut the cost structure? Well I'll make this comment into two sectors here -- two different segments.
First is in the -- from a manufacturing cost or the cost of goods sold perspective and I would say that we're going to continue to do what we need to in terms of hedging cost whether it's steel or zinc or whatever those are.
And with the implementation of lean in our manufacturing operations which creates a lot of flexibility but also allows us to deleverage as much as we can and minimize that impact.
At the same time on the operating expense side I would say we've tightened the belt and made reductions where we felt it was appropriate and at the same time we're continuing to invest in product development and geographical expansion and really developing the strategies and the synergies between our businesses and developing differentiation in our business segments which helps our margins long term.
We're well positioned given our market strength and balance sheet to continue to make those investments and others that create shareholder value including share repurchase and acquisitions as we go through this period.
Obviously we will continue to reevaluate our operating expense position as we learn more about the market and where things are going and make adjustments accordingly that we feel are appropriate but we will maintain our strategic direction.
Okay.
Great.
And then in terms of the international business it seems like you highlighted a little bit more of a caution this quarter and it's understandable just given what we've been seeing but I am just wondering if are you actually starting to see a slowdown in orders or is it just a caution given what we've been seeing in these particular regions around the world? Let me describe it as a caution because we're seeing some of the commodity price impact to some degree in all of the international markets but to a limited degree still and yet at the same time while we're dealing with the commodity price issue we had the conflicts in the Middle East which certainly affects that market.
Ukraine and Russia which creates some difficult market conditions there at this time but we'll get past those and we expect to continue to see growth in Brazil China and Ukraine Russia parts of South America parts of Africa and while we're experiencing some contraction right now we expect that financial investors in Ag will continue to make investment in new projects around the world as part of food security initiatives and other things.
So it still makes sense to see good growth in the long term in these international markets but they are going through just a little bit of a rough time right now.
Okay.
So in terms of -- I know you don't like to give guidance but the first half of the year you were averaging $40 million to $50 million is that far off given what you are seeing just trying to understand how difficult the environment is given your comments? Well again I don't want to give guidance and I would say that I wouldn’t describe it as difficult.
I would say that there are some challenges right as I've described but what we have also seen in the last couple of months is we've seen projects in some of the international markets that were somewhat delayed due to investors holding back because of commodity price changes or investment in let's say Ukraine or Russia because of the conflicts that are taking place right now.
And yet the interest is still very strong and is still there where I believe that that will continue is just a matter of some delays.
So I can't really predict in terms of timing of projects or anything of that nature.
I will just say that the drivers are still very very strong and we would expect that to continue.
Okay.
Great.
And then just lastly in terms of your acquisition strategy just wondering if there is any different viewpoints that you take in a downturn versus the very robust period that we've seen in the last few years is there any chance that we see a pick-up of acquisitions or anything like that just wondering what your viewpoint is going into the trough time period here.
Well strategically it doesn’t change anything that we plan or do from an acquisition standpoint in terms of we're still looking for water related acquisitions and acquisitions that are synergistic to our core business and basically build on differentiation and continue to build our offering from a total solution standpoint.
Now from an opportunistic standpoint this may create some new opportunities because the market is a little softer in some areas but outside of that it doesn’t really change anything from a strategic level in terms of acquisition.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Bennett with Sterne Agee.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
One piece of clarification real quick the breakdown you gave of replacement dry land is that just domestic or is that total irrigation? That is just domestic.
Okay.
And then can you -- is there any chance that you can give me those numbers for the third quarter of last year? I believe we have those -- Jim has those.
Just give us a second here.
Sure.
The third quarter of last year was 46% dry land 23% conversion and 31% replacement.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then second to what Joe was talking about on the international side I know you guys have always thrown out that 15% long term growth rate in that business do you think that needs to come down a little bit given what's going on in Ukraine and some of these areas or are you still comfortable with that as it's not really guidance but just kind of a target.
Well if you were to try and apply it to any one quarter or a short term period I would say that's difficult to predict and that… Sure.
…a kind of forecast but taken from a longer term perspective no I don't feel that we would change that at this point.
I think there are some factors kind of in play primarily Ukraine in terms of what happens there that could impact that but I still believe there are so many growth opportunities throughout the world for efficient irrigation that I wouldn’t change that estimate at this time.
Got it.
Okay.
And then if you -- I guess if you look year-over-year and back out Iraq it looks like it was -- the international piece was down about 10% organically I'll call it can you just go through some of your major markets and just talk about which ones were down and which ones may have been up just to get a better sense of kind of what's going on there ex-Iraq? Without getting too specific I would say a number of them were down.
One of them that was -- that has been very strong for the last few years certainly has been Brazil and we did see it lower in the quarter primarily due to the government subsidized funding delays which we would expect to improve after the next election and hopefully that will get turned back on again.
But outside of that there was no real specific market.
We've seen some delays or let's say some reductions in China which we've talked about a little bit in the past due to some government tender delays and things of that nature.
Nothing really significant but the primary ones were the Middle East which was the Iraq contract and Brazil due to the government funding.
Got it.
That's super helpful.
And then a couple more; one I know you guys are working on a plant in Turkey is that part of what's been delayed or is that still slated for next year? Well the plant in Turkey is under construction and we're in the process of hiring for key positions for that plant at this time.
It is delayed but we do expect to be operational probably by the end of the calendar year and we had many months of delays in gaining the appropriate approvals in country that we needed but the project is now really proceeding according to our revised schedule but that's one of a couple of projects in let's say developing markets that's delayed due to government approvals and those types of processes.
Got it.
Are there any others that you would like to call out? Not specifically at this time.
I may talk about them in the future as we get to capital invested but not at this time.
Got you.
Okay.
And then last one for me on the infrastructure piece of the business I know there's been alarm bells going off regarding the highway trough fund running at it might excuse me in a couple of months.
Have you seen that impact your business at all? Are you customers talking about it or you are just kind of figure it will get fixed? Well I can say everybody is talking about it and I don't think there was an assumption of anything getting fixed may be there a belief that it will be -- in the long term I think there is faith but I would say the way we look at this is the new leadership we have in the business now there has been a new request for expansion of profit in our business in each of our markets actually we are participating in and the infrastructure business management focus on better utilization of recourses and production planning we've seen continual albeit a slow recovery in the U.S.
market with roadway infrastructure segment in general and in both construction and general repairs.
We think we're pretty well positioned and as we see a multi-year highway build put in place that will be beneficial to the business.
So we think something will happen.
It's just a matter of timing and it has to take place.
Got you.
Okay.
Thank you guys so much.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Rose with Wedbush Securities.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my questions.
I was hoping we can follow-up just on pricing.
If you could may be parse out a little bit of where you're seeing the pricing pressure in terms of smaller or direct competitor in small versus large of the players and if there is any regional component to this and how are you seeing pricing pressure are you seeing in formal rebates are you seeing in direct price reductions and if you could provide a little more color on that.
Well as I mentioned in the comments we've seen the -- we've primarily heard it more anecdotally from our sales people and our dealers and we do have discussions with our dealers regarding specific competitive situations as they arise.
I wouldn’t describe it as specifically regional or broad and widespread.
I would say that -- as I commented on earlier really it's had minimal if any impact on us to date.
I would say a pretty small impact.
So I am not really concerned about it at this point.
Like I said my bigger concern with this is depending on where the market goes in the future and going forward.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then in terms of mitigating the impact on margins and from a revenue decline can you may be break out a little bit more from lean in terms of where you saw some of the improvement or at least the mitigation is it in labor or is it on cost of quality was it in procurement maybe provide a little bit more color.
This is Jim and I think I will just say it really is more the overall management of the plant from a productivity-labor standpoint.
We are seeing deleverages you would expect from just the overall fixed cost structure but I think we've done a very good job in just managing the overall labor cost and making sure we've got full productivity in the plant or as much as we can in a situation like this.
From a purchasing standpoint we always have efforts ongoing.
I wouldn’t say there is any significant items call out there.
I would just say it's kind of more of the overall managing the productivity.
Okay.
And how many shifts are you running in the U.S.
plant irrigation? I would say it's generally one probably a couple in some departments as necessary.
There may be another one or two departments that could be running three shifts but generally in the one to two.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
[Operator instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Chris Shaw with Monness Crespi.
Hey good morning everyone.
How are you doing? Good.
Good morning.
I was curious -- I was surprised that you had -- you didn’t buyback more shares during the quarter I think it looked like it was maybe $11 million worth after doing I think six or so last quarter when we only had few weeks to actually do it [few million of cash is] (ph) arriving with a reason you weren’t more aggressive there -- is there some redo and potential M&amp;A maybe going forward.
No Chris I think it’s more -- our overall approach is this is a $100 million to $150 million repurchase that we see executing over the 24 month period and our view really hasn't changed which is we want to be active in the market and we also want to be opportunistic and I think that’s really where we stand is that I think what we’ve shown in the last couple of quarters is that we do expect to execute at some level but those -- the level will vary based on where we see opportunities.
So I don’t think I would really comment more than that.
Maybe it really isn’t related to any other outlook item I think we have leveraged by the very strong balance sheet and significant amount of cash.
So I think we have the flexibility we need for acquisitions and other types of things.
It’s just we’re going to be thoughtful about the process on the repurchase.
And on deals in this pipeline is getting bigger or smaller or you just finding problems with getting the right valuations from the target or are there other factors that are slowing up any potential deals? Hey this is Rick I think in terms of the deals I would say that we’re -- the pipeline is very active.
We have a lot of potentials that we’re looking at and as I commented last quarter many of them are smaller than we’d like to see that’s still the case.
They’re primarily smaller deals that add in nicely and there’s a synergy with our existing business.
Some cases price expectations are challenging.
Many that's not the case but it's a matter of just finding the right deal and being able to get those close.
So I think the pipeline is as good as it’s ever been.
In fact probably I’d characterize it more as continually increasing.
And then shifting gears I guess have more recent experience of what happened to your business in irrigation when you have a period of dryness or drought but -- and a feeling like this where it's a little bit more rainy or floods some there a little bit.
In the past does that drive down demand I mean obviously relative -- it was really drier but from a normal season do you see people less inclined to put in the irrigation just when they have a good season -- you guys have a history of that that you can point? So I would describe it as obviously during periods of drought it's really top of mind for everyone in terms of how to enhance the yield of their crop and obviously irrigation is the number one method for being able to do that but it’s also the number one method for -- from a consistency standpoint in terms of crop yield.
Obviously there’s other things in terms of seed and fertilizers and things that take place but consistently applying that water during their growing cycle is extremely important which our kinds of irrigation can do.
Now when it comes to flooding that's taking place obviously it's difficult to sell the equipment into regions that are flooded you can't do that.
Regions that are flooding where there is too much water they're not thinking about irrigation at that point.
However what they're really looking at longer term is what I would consider to be more dramatic weather cycles than what we’ve seen in the past where we’ve seen the cycle of droughts and flooding and things that are taking place in different markets.
So many areas where we have seen farmers not interested in irrigation in the past and some of the mid-western states where they’ve sufficiently had enough rainfall didn’t have enough rainfall in the 2011-2012 time period with drought and even though they may be getting it now and there maybe some flooding longer term they’ll probably still consider irrigation because that's going to be the best path to consistency in terms of the crop.
So that's really how they’re looking at it while they may not be looking at irrigation this year because they’re flooded or have water issues.
That will change as the cycles change.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question -- you do have a follow-up from John Duni with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi thanks just one quick follow up.
You briefly talked about your thoughts on the highway bill but I want to get your take on Section 179 it looks like we're seeing some positive developments recently in the house but I didn't know if you were able to offer any additional colors do you have any expectations to the bill or anything you’ve heard recently? So I think the only color I'd add to it is that everything that we've heard ex fired was that it would probably be renewed and at some level we don’t really know what level that will be.
However I think that it’s likely that it will be renewed at the end of calendar year which really won’t do any good obviously for our fiscal year this year it may make a difference for us next year in terms of demand.
But at this point I’d say it really has no impact on fiscal 2014 for us but our expectation is it probably will get renewed but in today's political environment it's anybody's guess.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Final question comes from the line of Peter Van Roden with Spitfire Capital.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Just a quick question once again on domestic pricing.
I think in the past you guys have talked about how you don’t see a ton of value trying to capitalize in order to gain market share.
And so if that’s the case are there any of your competitors that you see being in financial distress from the drop-off did they kind of fly a little bit too close to the sun and put themselves in trouble or is the competitive market pretty healthy right now because everyone has done so well over the past couple of years.
I think it’s more of the latter.
I think everyone is in pretty good shape.
I think on a -- looking at a more global basis we have some competitors that occasionally get into some difficult financial times because of spreading too thin or growing too fast and investing too much too quickly.
So we may see some opportunities that come out of that occasionally little more price aggression and things like that which is usually short lived.
But generally I would say that everybody is in pretty good shape and our competitive environment is really pretty solid.
As I stated earlier I do think it as depending on what happens with commodity prices or more importantly farmer sentiment and market demand things could get more aggressive but I’m not overly concerned because we’re well positioned given our lean and other things that we saw implemented throughout our operations.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
That will conclude the Q&amp;A session for today’s call.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Parod for any closing remarks.
While we've experienced a near term decline from peak irrigation revenues drivers for the company's markets and population growth expanded food production efficient water use and infrastructure expansion support our long term growth goals.
We’re committed to creating shareholder value through investments in organic growth dividend increases strategic water related acquisitions and share repurchases congruent with our capital allocation plan.
We thank you for your questions and participation in this call.
Thank you.
Again thank you for your participation.
This concludes today’s conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Vanessa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker's remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which reflect management's current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
With me on today's call is Jim Raabe Lindsay Corporation's Chief Financial Officer and Lori Zarkowski our Chief Accounting Officer.
Total revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 were $147.5 million slightly less than the record $148.4 million in revenue in the same quarter last year.
Both irrigation and infrastructure revenues were in line with the same quarter of last year.
Operating margins increased to 11% in the quarter compared to 10.6% in the same quarter last year primarily due to an improvement in gross margins related to sales mix.
Net earnings were $11.3 million or $0.89 per diluted share compared with $10.4 million or $0.81 per diluted share in the prior year quarter.
Total revenues for fiscal 2014 were $617.9 million decreasing 11% from the same period last year.
Net earnings were $51.5 million or $4 per diluted share as compared to $70.6 million or $5.47 per diluted share in the prior year.
For the irrigation segment in total sales were $125.8 million in the quarter 2% lower than the same quarter of last year.
Irrigation operating margins increased to 14.9% of sales from 14.5% of sales last year due to a higher mix of U.S.
sales.
In the U.S.
irrigation market revenues were $70.7 million for the fourth quarter increasing 31% over the same period of last year primarily due to replacement of machine revenue driven by spring and summer storms.
The severe storms across the Midwest resulted in incremental revenue approximately $15 million to $20 million higher in the quarter than normal.
The higher revenue in the quarter also included Lakos filtration products the business acquired late last year.
Excluding the storm damage revenue and Lakos U.S.
irrigation sales declined in the fourth quarter by approximately 14%.
Corn prices continued to decline during the quarter on indication of strong yields in the current growing season and a significant increase in ending stocks of corn.
The lower agricultural commodity prices continued the downward pressure on irrigation equipment demand in the U.S.
In addition in August the USDA forecasted 2014 net farm income to be 16% below 2013 which is still above the 10-year average.
At this point U.S.
irrigation revenue for fiscal 2015 remains very difficult to predict although there is a significant increase projected in the stocks used ratios for corn the recent decrease in crop prices and abnormal storm damage revenue at fiscal 2014 have created challenging comparative conditions for fiscal 2015 in U.S.
market.
In the international irrigation market revenues for the fourth quarter were $55.1 million decreasing 26% over the same quarter of last year.
Comparatively revenues decreased $17.4 million from the Iraq contract revenues included in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013.
This accounted for more than 90% of the decrease in the quarter from the same time last year.
Decreases in other regions were offset by the inclusion of international revenue from Lakos.
For the full year of fiscal 2014 total irrigation segment revenues decreased 14% to $539.9 million.
U.S.
irrigation market revenues also declined by 14% from the previous year driven by declining crop prices and the lessening of drought conditions in the corn belt.
Excluding Lakos and incremental irrigation sales associated with the abnormal storm damage in the Midwest U.S.
irrigation sales declined by approximately 26%.
Sales in the international irrigation markets decreased 13% from the previous year primarily due to the Iraq contract revenues included in fiscal 2013.
Operating margins for the irrigation segment were 17% in 2014 compared to 20% last year primarily due to cost deleverage on lower sales.
Infrastructure segment revenues were $21.7 million in the quarter increasing 7% from the same quarter last year.
The infrastructure segment generated operating income of $2.1 million in the quarter compared to 2.4 million in the fourth quarter last year due to lower sales of Road Zipper systems.
For the full year of fiscal 2014 infrastructure revenues increased 20% to $78 million with significant increases of road safety products and rail products.
For the year operating income was $3.5 million compared to $800 000 loss last year driven by the higher volume.
We’ve made significant progress in infrastructure profitability in 2014 through revenue increases and managing expenses.
We expect to see further improvement in profitability in 2015 which will include revenue from the Golden Gate Bridge project currently scheduled for the second fiscal quarter of 2015.
The U.S.
highway bill signed in August only provides funding for 10 months creating future funding uncertainty for road safety product revenues.
In spite of government spending uncertainty we believe we can continue to capitalize on the progress we made in 2014 in the infrastructure segment including market share increases in key product categories margin improvements through manufacturing efficiencies and expense management.
Gross profit in the fourth quarter was $39.9 million or 27.1% of sales versus $38.6 million or 26% of sales in the same quarter last year.
Gross margins in irrigation increased by nearly two percentage points primarily due to a change in sales mix.
Infrastructure gross margins declined by approximately three percentage points primarily due to lower Road Zipper system sales.
Operating expenses in the fourth quarter increased to $23.7 million from $22.8 million in the prior year period.
Excluding the acquired Lakos filtration business operating expenses decreased by $1.1 million in the quarter.
Operating expenses with Lakos increased to 16.1% of sales for the quarter compared to 15.3% of sales in the same period last year.
The order backlog on August 31 2014 was $79.6 million compared to $66.5 million on August 31 2013.
Backlog at the end of fiscal 2014 includes $12.7 million order for the Zipper system project on the Golden Gate Bridge which we expect to recognize in revenues in fiscal 2015.
In addition backlog includes $2.6 million remaining from the Iraq contract which is currently on hold as a result of security concerns in the region.
Year-over-year U.S.
and international irrigation backlogs have decreased reflecting the change of the agricultural market conditions while infrastructure backlog has increased.
Our backlog typically represent some long-term irrigation and infrastructure projects as well as short lead time orders and therefore as I’ve indicated in past quarters backlog is generally not a good indication of future quarters revenues.
Cash and cash equivalents were $172 million at the end of the fiscal year and were $20 million higher than the same time last year.
Accounts receivable were $26 million lower year-over-year due primarily to collections on the Iraq contract.
During fiscal 2014 we began executing against our capital allocation plan announced in January including a doubling of the dividend at that time.
In fiscal 2014 we paid out $11.7 million of dividends and had capital expenditures increase to $17.7 million.
We repurchased 498 000 shares for $41 million during the fiscal year including $23.3 million in repurchases in the fourth quarter.
In summary fiscal 2014 reflected a transition from the bullish agricultural irrigation market conditions we experienced in the past few years through a contracting market due to improved crop production conditions in the U.S.
While the market contracted fueled by declining corn prices the abnormally high equipment sales resulting from storms in the mid-west softened the negative impact in the past two quarters.
Due to the superb responsiveness of our Nebraska factory and the entire irrigation team we were able to quickly respond to the urgent needs of our customers and dealers and provide the equipment needed in the peak of the growing season.
Looking forward we expect that irrigation sales will be affected again in 2015 by the lower crop prices the projected reductions in farm income as well as political instability in various regions of the world.
However the expense in the duration of the current cyclical downturn is very difficult to predict.
Our team is confident that our investments and competitively advantage products and services will continue to position us well now and as agricultural market conditions improve.
Today we have a leadership position with our irrigation management platform FieldNET which we intend to defend and expand.
We offer the most comprehensive packages of high quality irrigation solutions for growers in the industry which we will continue to build the leverage.
For the infrastructure business we made significant progress this year and returning to profitability with sales growth and margin improvement.
We believe we can continue this progress in 2015 with further growth in margin gains despite the lack of long-term U.S highway funding clarity.
Finally the strength of our balance sheet will allow us to continue to invest in creating incremental returns for shareholders thorough investments in growth opportunities both organic and through acquisitions increasing dividends and share repurchases.
I would now like to open it up for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Brett Wong from Piper Jaffray.
One moment please for your first question.
Hello.
Yes good morning.
Hi good morning.
How are you? Thanks for taking my questions.
Just first wanted to dig into the backlog.
I was wondering the decline in the irrigation backlog are you seeing a more pronounced decline in either domestic or irrigation or international orders?  No.
The decline in the backlog is pretty similar in both of those regions.
Okay.
And then just kind of going along with international irrigation is do you have any improved visibility into projects there? I know there's been some softness just given the lower grain price backdrop.
Just wondering if you're seeing anything incrementally better there? Regarding the international markets? Yes yes just seeing if any visibility has improved.
We’re not seeing much more improved visibility.
I would describe it more as -- we continue to see a lot of activity.
There’s a lot of request for information quotes.
We’re seeing a continued agricultural investment with some of the larger investors in the international market.
We’ve seen a little bit of slowing in certainly in Russia and Ukraine that’s definitely been little more troubling in the past number of months probably past four months.
But right now we’ve seen -- I’d say the markets have been fairly stable in terms of kind of activity that we’re seeing.
And I would caution on the backlog in terms of -- usually looking at our backlog at any period of time isn’t that reflective but certainly at the end of the fourth quarter we usually don’t have much of a backlog and seeing a little bit of a change in either domestic or international doesn’t really concern me much at this point because it really isn’t much of an indication this isn’t the season typically when people are buying.
Right okay.
That makes sense.
But within the backlog are there any other storm replacement units in there? Should we expect any impact in the first quarter? No basically those are out.
Not aware of anything in storm related I think those were all cleared thorough in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And one last one from me you provided some commentary around expectations for continued growth for the Infrastructure segment.
I was wondering if you can talk to -- a little bit more on why you have that confidence given the uncertainty around the highway bill.
I think the primary reason for the confidence there is I’ve seen changes in terms of our approach from a selling standpoint and I would tell you that our team is aggressive out in the market.
We’re developing some new products.
We’re developing more contacts.
We’re getting our road safety products qualified or certified in more of the states than we’ve had in the past.
So it’s a very aggressive approach to getting good coverage in the market for particularly road safety products but I would say really all of the infrastructure products in total.
So we’ve seen some good progress there and we have some large market share opportunities over time meaning we have still relatively small share in some of the product categories that presents a good opportunity for us.
Okay.
And just one last -- and then just around the infrastructure have you seen any softness here recently at all or everything has been going as you’ve seen through the whole year?  It’s been pretty statistical.
I would say that we will start to see a little more softness now because we’re getting through the end of the season for some of the infrastructure products to be installed particularly in the road work stuff but generally it’s been pretty solid.
I think we’ve also seen increase in the interest in some of our products for example our in terminals due to problems that other competitors have had in various ways.
So we see some opportunities and we think there are definitely opportunities to grow.
Thanks.
Thanks a lot.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Schon Williams from BB&amp;T Capital Markets Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Just briefly on the storm related projects.
The $15 million to $20 million is that what you were expecting coming out of last quarter? Or was there -- and you had certainly mentioned it on the call but I wasn’t expecting something to this extent I am just wondering did that continue thorough the summer or was this kind of what you were expecting coming out of the last quarter? Was in process at the time last quarter were we saw the orders coming in but not to the level that it ended up at.
So yeah I think -- the first statement to say that it was not – it was more than what we expected.
And what could we -- what would one expect around the margins around those projects? I would assume that it’s more kind of like an emergency order where you got to get it through the system as quick as possible do you tend to get a little bit better pricing on a system like that versus a traditional system? There’s really very little pricing difference between what was supplied in the say storm damage systems versus other replacement or other systems that we sell.
I think one area where we do see a little bit of a difference in terms of the mix in the quarter would be where we typically would have in any quarter a mix of one-off type machines the machine sold to a grower or two machine sold to a local grower and the mix of some larger projects that could be more competitive bid or could be five machines or 20 machines.
We probably had a larger composition of the one off type sales to those growers which were really replacement machines.
But I wouldn’t say that they were at higher price points necessarily than other machines it was more a factor of the mix because of what so much higher than typical in that quarter.
All right that’s helpful.
And then just turning to the international side I wonder if you could give us an update on where the Turkey plant is right now.
I notice that the CapEx actually came in a bit more than where you guided.
I was wondering if that may be related to Turkey and then if you could kind of just -- keeping with the international focus if you could you comment on what you’re seeing out of South Africa – I am sorry South America I’ll get back in the queue after that.
Thanks.
Well first let me comment on the Turkey facility and the CapEx was primarily not related to the Turkey facility at this time it was related to some other things which Jim can talk about in a second.
But as far as the Turkey facility itself it’s progressing on track and I commented last quarter that I would expect it would be operational around the first of the calendar year and that is still the plan.
So that’s still progressing well.
As far as the other international markets I'd say that what we saw in the quarter was nothing really surprising or significant differences any of them including South America I think there are some changes that we would expect once the elections are resolved and we see more free-up of funding particularly [indiscernible] in the region.
But in general I would say that there was no major changes in any of the regions.
The only one that has surprised me a little as we’ve continued to see inquiries and work on projects to some extent in Russia.
And I think that remains to be seen what happens there but definitely we've seen a little more concern over funding availability in Russia for projects.
That’s kind of the general overview from the international synopsis and Jim if you want to talk about the CapEx in the last quarter?  Sure.
On the CapEx for the quarter as we mentioned last quarter we had lowered our estimate because we had seen some delays in projects and we were able to complete the acquisition of our Brazil facility in the quarter.
We thought it might slip into the first quarter but basically that -- it’s the acquisition of the facility that we had been leasing.
We acquired it basically to improve our flexibility around adding capacity productivity and vertical integration in that facility as well.
So we did end up with a little bit more than what we had originally expected.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Nathan Jones from Stifel.
Jim and Lori this is actually Jesse [indiscernible] calling on behalf of Nathan today.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So our checks indicated that neither you and nor your competitors have been cutting price in the market.
Can you talk about the dynamics in the industry that allow such rational behavior in this pretty acute downturn and whether you expect your competitors to remain rational? Let's say that the competitor intensity really didn’t change much from the third to the fourth quarter.
However at the end of the quarter we are hearing some from our dealers that intensity was increasing a bit and that one of the competitors was discussing some pricing changes.
In the past cycles we’ve typically seen selling margins decreased from peak to trough levels.
And it could be anywhere from three to five percentage points.
So it wouldn’t surprise us if the competitive intensity increases and it does affect margins at some point in the process.
However our adoption of lean in the Nebraska irrigation facility is very strong.
We've demonstrated ability to ramp up and down with volume levels.
It does become challenging as volume decreases but we’ve been able to minimize the deleverage effect on those – when that does happen.
I would say we’re in a good competitive position if that were to take place and we’d have see some certainly price reductions but we really haven’t seen much in terms of that kind of intensity to-date.
Great.
One more question for you guys.
So you talked about earlier how you communicated the $100 million to $150 million of share repurchase and executed on $41.1 in 2014.
How do you view accelerating or increasing that given your current market conditions negative sentiment on Ag in general and how do you approach the decision between M&amp;A and share repurchase going forward? This is Jim and I think the -- share repurchase program and as we've executed I think it is indicative of how we think about it.
We have said that we were committed to it and we were going to be in the market regularly and that we were also going to be opportunistic in how we approach it and as the prices have declined as you can see we’ve been a little bit more active.
We do have -- we do put a 10b5-1 program into place before the end of the quarter that allows us to continue purchasing.
But also allows for an increase or decrease in purchases depending on what happens to the price.
So we absolutely are committed to continuing to execute against that in a way that we think we’ll provide a good return to shareholders overall.
Well I think in terms of the second half of that of how we look at it versus acquisition I’d say that one we’ve defined what we’re going to do from a share repurchase standpoint.
We definitely look at return on investment say from acquisitions and share repurchase together to look at one versus the other.
But at the same time we have looked at the share repurchases let’s say as a primary use of the excess cash at this point and we would consider debt for example for acquisitions as needed.
So we are still aggressive in terms of looking for acquisitions but we don’t believe that we are restricted in any way on that by what we’re doing from a share repurchase standpoint.
Got you.
All right well thank you so much for your time today.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Drab from William Blair.
Hi Rick.
Hi Jim.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I don’t know if you said already but can you tell us how much Lakos contributed in the fourth quarter? Yes Lakos for the year was roughly $27 million $28 million in revenue and the amount in the quarter was roughly about $8 billion.
So it’s a little less seasonal than the rest of our business although it does have some seasonality within each one of its business.
It's pretty consistent with kind of what we expected when we acquired it.
Great.
Okay.
And then have you said it would -- the expectation is for CapEx for the next fiscal year? Yes.
This it's Jim again and our expectation is in that $20 million to $25 million range we continue to work towards the capacity and other investments from that same point.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then the Golden Gate Bridge project well firstly of all you said second quarter '15 so that's your fiscal second quarter '15 right and can you talk about what that means in terms of when revenues will be recognizing -- it likely won't all be in the second quarter right? It would likely all be in the second quarter.
It will be a fairly concentrated time frame for when that is recognized.
And that’s still… And the caution we would add to that is that we're not in control of the project entirely.
Obviously the Golden Gate Bridge authority and others are.
So that’s our timing but right now that project is on schedule but that's -- so that's how we would expect it to occur.
But it could be delayed.
We haven’t had any indication of that.
But that is always a possibility.
And would you expect the gross margin on that project to be comparable to other larger QMB projects that you've completed in the past? Well I think the nature of that product line in those projects are that they are higher -- they are certainly higher margins than what we have in the rest of our business.
We don’t comment on the specific margin rate but it is higher than the rest of our business.
Sure.
How about relative to other large like the Mexico City project or other QMB projects would this be comparable to other QMB projects.
It would be comparable to the range that we see.
There is a range that we see within the QMB projects so it's in that range.
But I wouldn’t compare it to any particular project.
Okay.
And given we didn’t have any large QMB projects in fiscal 2014 and we’re going to have in 2015 do you think that despite maybe some pressure on irrigation that gross margin on a consolidated basis could actually be up in fiscal 2015? Any comment on that? Certainly the QMB activity and what we’ve seen on the infrastructure business will help it.
It's a little bit difficult to predict on the gross margin as a whole because it will depend a lot on the mix of the business and what happens in the U.S.
markets because we do have higher margins there.
So it’s hard to predict exactly how that will all flash out from a mix standpoint.
And then I think the other piece is as Rick alluded to we haven’t seen significant pricing pressure to date but that will also we tend to see that more in the selling season if we were to see it.
So it’s a little bit hard to predict exactly… I think I’d say that – I think to answer that in an affirmative way would take a lot more visibility on the what the next season looks like from irrigation standpoint.
And we’re really just not there at this point.
Okay.
And Jim I think you just mentioned that make sure I am clear that one of the pressures on margin next year – if domestic irrigation is down your domestic business still carries higher margins in the international? That is correct.
The domestic business does carry higher margin.
So the mix of the business between U.S.
and international does affect the gross margin.
Okay.
All right that’s all I have for now.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Rose from Wedbush Securities.
Good morning gentlemen.
Thanks for taking my call.
Maybe I can follow up on Brian’s question.
If we think about next year I think most assume given the backdrop that it would be very difficult -- and I think you’ve mentioned challenging for domestic irrigation sales to be up or I think even globally.
Assuming then international doesn’t have the same pressure because its project related doesn’t even imply that is more likely that margins would be down than up? Well it certainly depends on mix.
Some of the international projects can have a very good margin rate versus some of the – let’s say sales that would be thorough typical dealer channel in some of the international markets where we don’t have as much vertical integration.
So there’s a number of factors that come into play.
I would say that – I really couldn’t comment on what that would look like going forward for the next year because it’s comprised of a number of factors.
I am still very comfortable with what it looks like for the international markets.
I think there’s a bit of uncertainty in how the Ag commodity prices will play out in affecting those markets today.
But right now the indications are still very strong in terms of the types of demand that we see in those markets.
But in terms of -- going beyond that to give any kind of guidance on what the margins would -- what would happen with the margins over that mix at this point we really couldn’t do that.
And maybe going back to Brazil the expansion that you highlighted capacity expansion for international that’s largely Brazil and Turkey are you consolidating the two locations in Brazil in Sao Paulo? We only have one location in Brazil.
The two buildings are you doing anything there? Well we have a couple of buildings on the same piece of property.
We’re not really consolidating those.
The primary reason for the acquisition was to be able to do some things in terms of vertical integration and adding more manufacturing functions and capacity and processes in our facility.
And as we’ve talked about the past our international plans are generally not very vertically integrated.
So we have a number of processes that are done outside by outside suppliers and there's a few that we’re looking at brining inside that would reduce the cost of the products and probably get margins in the – closer to the kinds of ranges we see in the U.S.
not quite there yet.
But this is the next step in our expansion of capacity plus cost reduction process in the international market.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just two quick ones used market I think a lot of people been concerned about the impact from the used market of irrigation or center pivot equipment.
Have you seen any impact on your business in any particular locations at all? Nothing nothing that’s really visible from an impact standpoint.
We have anecdotally heard comments about some used machines I’ve heard comments that some of the storm damage machines were recovered and potentially rebuilt with some components to put on to the market.
We haven’t seen any real evidence of that.
I am sure that there is a bit of a market for used machines at all times.
But we really haven’t seen that have any impact on our business at this point.
Okay.
And then lastly FieldNET can you provide some color in terms of percentage of mix that’s incorporating FieldNET or high level of technology smart technology.
I really can’t do that for competitive purposes.
I would say that we’ve seen significant increase in FieldNET market penetration in the past year.
We would expect to see more – we’re investing in expanding that market penetration.
We believe it’s a great opportunity but also customers who have used FieldNET become very dedicated loyal customers who really don’t want to give it up.
And it’s a great tool for saving labor saving water and for managing other system in general.
So what we’ve found is that the more that we can get market penetration more customers we can get on FieldNET regardless of what pivot brand they use the better that is for us and the more that they love it.
So we’re going to continue to expand the product line and the capabilities of the product and we will continue to expand our market penetration.
Okay great.
Thank you I’ll get back in the queue.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Bennett from Sterne Agee.
Hey guys good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
First you guys talked about a 3% to 5% margin decline from peak to trough that you usually see.
Was that just from price -- when pricing gets competitive or was that -- what was that in context? It would be a combination typically of price but also to some extent deleveraging which could affect cost of goods sold.
So that’s total margin? That would be a total gross margin change that we’ve seen from peak to trough is in that 3% to 5% range typically.
Got you.
That’s really helpful.
Thank you.
And then you guys really give the breakdown in terms of repair/replace versus dry land versus conversion can you give us those numbers for the fourth quarter? Yes.
That was an interesting quarter because of the storm damage machines.
So keep in mind that those had an impact and it would be categorized certainly as replacement.
So what we saw in the quarter was a replacement machines were 60% of the total.
Machines going into dry land were 17% and machines for conversion of gravity were 23%.
In a typical year we’ve described in the past roughly about third split in all three of those categories and obviously varies where high commodity price we’d see much larger percentage in dry land.
So it was a pretty high replacement quarter primarily driven by the storm damage machines.
Got you.
That makes a lot of sense.
On those machines are you seeing like for like replacement? Or do you think you’ve had – you may have taken a little bit of share there? Well what hear is that we’ve picked up some share but I can’t say with fact this is only information from our people is they believe that we’ve picked up some share our dealers believe that we've picked up a little share.
Got you.
Good to hear.
And then just a couple of more quick ones first on the international market it looks if you back out Iraq from last year total revenue was down about 3% on a year-over-year basis was that kind of broad based across geographies or was there one that had more of an impact than others?  I think one of the primary areas outside of Middle East because of the Iraq project would have been Russia.
Okay.
The decline in Russia and I think it’s understandable in two fronts one is the situation that’s occurring there today but the other is it just tends to be project based.
So it would be driven by a large project or two that could take place in the region and that’s primarily the other market where there was a difference.
Got you.
Okay cool.
And then Jim on the CapEx you mentioned I guess it’s some project – some projects got delayed can you elaborate on that? And then maybe also elaborate on what’s in store for 2015? I mean could you call out some of the projects that you’re looking at? Sure the – well what I was diluting to was that in the third quarter we’ve lowered our estimate for CapEx for the year because we had had some projects delayed and that we were anticipating some delays.
The Brazil facility acquisition was one of those projects that we thought was going to slide into fiscal 2015 but it did in fact completed in 2014.
I think we’ll also lose to the fact that the Turkey – the plant in Turkey has also slit a little bit or at least we said that last quarter it’s still on track now for basically around the end of the year.
But with regard to next year we continue to work on productivity enhancements in our plant.
We will certainly build out and complete the facility in Turkey.
We always have some projects around productivity in our U.S.
facility as well.
Most of what we’re doing as we’ve said is capacity and productivity both in the U.S.
but more significantly in the international markets and then we do have some CapEx in the infrastructure business with some of the progress that we’ve made there we also expect to have some CapEx there.
But most of it is around productivity and capacity.
Got you.
So no plans to build a new facility in any other country right now? No.
Cool.
Okay thanks.
Last one from me on M&amp;A was just curious if your pipelines has changed much in recent months or if some things have progressed or just an update on that? I commented last quarter that our pipeline has been very strong recently.
We’ve been very active in the M&amp;A work and that still is the case.
We’re active on a number of projects we’re constantly in contact with a number and I would say it’s a very aggressive approach at this point.
Okay.
Great thank you guys so much.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Richard Haydon from Tipp Hill Capital.
Hi this is kind of subjective question but what level do you think grain prices would have to reach in order to encourage farmers to buy irrigation systems?  That is a very difficult question to answer I would say that it really varies depending on the crop that they’re growing the part of the country that they’re in and where grain prices have been.
Certainly if we were just talking about corn we’ll see farmers buying irrigation equipment at the current corn prices without a doubt.
As we’ve seen in the past as corn prices increase we see that expand and I can’t say it’s a linear equation or a process but we do see a continual expansion at higher prices.
So I can’t really tell you what that trigger point is I do know that as we go out and talk to larger commercial growers or the larger operations they would consider irrigation at almost any commodity price because it’s the best method in terms of expanding their yield and boosting production.
So they look at it as almost a necessity in many cases.
So it really does vary by the crop that’s been grown the region of the world that you’re growing in and the specifics in terms of either the farmer type or their experience in terms of what commodity prices have been.
I know that’s not a very clear answer but that’s how I would describe it today.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) At this time there appears to be no more questions.
Mr.
Parod I’ll turn the call back to you for closing remarks.
Thank you.
While we’re in the midst of a cyclical downturn for the irrigation segment the global long-term drivers of water conservation population growth importance of bio-fuel the need for safer more efficient transportation solutions remain very positive.
Lindsay is committed to creating value for shareholders through organic growth dividends strategic acquisitions and share repurchases.
Thank you for your questions and participation in this call.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Vanessa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker's remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which reflect management's current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
With me on today's call is Jim Raabe Lindsay Corporation's Chief Financial Officer and Lori Zarkowski our Chief Accounting Officer.
Total revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 were $134.8 million 9% less than the $147.7 million in the same quarter last year.
U.S.
irrigation equipment revenues decreased and were partially offset by increases in infrastructure and international irrigation sales.
Operating margins decreased to 8.8% in the quarter compared to 10.8% in the same quarter last year primarily due to lower sales of approximately $2 million in incremental expenses associated with estimated environmental expenses and acquisition related expenses.
Net earnings were $7.6 million or $0.62 per diluted share compared with $10.2 million or $0.79 per diluted share in the same quarter last year.
For the irrigation segment in total sales were $114.7 million or 11% lower than the same quarter last year due to the decline in equipment demand in the U.S.
Irrigation operating margins decreased to 12.8% of sales from 15.7% last year due to the lower revenue in incremental and environmental expenses.
U.S.
irrigation revenues of $62.7 million decreased 21% and a 27% decline in the number of irrigation systems sold offset by sales increases in pumping stations and filtration solutions.
Virtually all of the unit sales decreases from the same quarter last year occurred in the corn belt of the U.S.
While corn prices have seen some rebound over the last few months they remain relatively below the peak attained in 2012.
The commodity price compression is expected to continue to reduce farm income in the coming year.
Lower commodity prices and consequentially lower farm income are expected to reduce U.S.
Irrigation equipment demand in fiscal 2015.
However it remains very difficult to predict the full impact until we enter the primary selling season starting this second fiscal quarter when we will have more tangible feedback and farmer sentiment and visibility on market demand.
While the near term perspective is unclear it is evidenced that the convergence through efficient mechanized irrigation is progressing undeterred in the U.S.
as illustrated in the USDA farm and ranch irrigation survey data released in November.
Pivots of lateral systems now irrigated approximately 48% of irrigated acres as shown on page nine of our slide deck.
International irrigational revenues of $52 million in the quarter increased 4% over the same quarter last year most notably in the Middle East South Africa and Australia.
Interest in mechanized irrigation remains very good in most all of the international markets with many large agricultural projects proceeding as planned undaunted by the lower commodity prices however there remains significant challenges in selling into Russia and Ukraine which historically represents a small percentage of our international irrigation sales.
The challenges have now been exacerbated by the plummet of the Russian ruble reducing the purchasing power of our customers in Russia.
However we continue to believe in the long term growth opportunities the region offers and we will remain active in the market.
Infrastructure segment revenues were $20.1 million in the quarter increasing 9% from the same quarter last year.
The infrastructure segment generated operating income of $2.2 million in the quarter compared to 0.5 million in the first quarter last year and higher sales and improved margins.
All of the revenue increase for the segment was generated by our road safety products with a significant increases in internal sales for use with guard rail.
The Road Zipper system sales and installation on the Golden Gate Bridge remains untracked for installation in the second fiscal quarter of 2015 and our outlook for infrastructure continues to be positive although somewhat mitigated by the lack of long term U.S.
highway bill and funding clarity.
Gross profit in the first quarter of $36.9 million or 27.4% of sales versus $40.2 million or 27.2% of sales in the same quarter last year.
Gross margins in irrigation increased by slightly less than one percentage point as compared to last year.
Excluding the impact of a higher than normal warranty charge in the prior year irrigation gross margins decreased by approximately 2.5 percentage points as a result of competitive pricing pressure and increases in input costs.
At the same time our manufacturing operation in Lindsay Nebraska we are able to offset the deleveraging impact of lower sales through higher productivity and through reductions in factory expenses.
During the quarter infrastructure gross margins increased by approximately 6 percentage points primarily due to product cost reductions product mix and cost leveraging on higher volumes.
While we did not have any revenue in the quarter from the Road Zipper systems to be installed by the Golden Gate Bridge we did receive cost leveraging benefits from production of the barrier transfer machine and the barrier for the project.
Operating expenses in the quarter increased to $25 million from $24.2 million in the same quarter last year.
Increase in expenses is attributable to the incremental environmental expenses recorded and expenses incurred to the acquisition of Elecsys Corporation which is expected to be completed at the end of January pending a positive election results from their shareholders.
After meeting with the EPA in December we determine that the timeline for our current remediation plans should be extended beyond what we had originally estimated therefore necessitating increasing our environmental expense estimates.
We continue to work with EPA to determine the best long term solutions for the site unfortunately these costs are difficult to estimate and sometimes result in periodic revisions.
The environmental and acquisition expenses reduced earnings by $0.11 per diluted share on an after tax basis.
On the other hand in response to cost and irrigation market conditions in North America we reduced our SG&amp;A expenses by approximately $1.3 million as compared to a year ago quarter.
These reductions were primarily in personnel related expenses consulting and travel.
We are continuing to monitor market conditions and to make appropriate reductions of expenses that will not impact our long term growth initiatives.
Total operating expenses were 18.5% of sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared with 16.4% of sales in the prior year period.
Excluding the environmental and M&amp;A expenses operating expenses were 17% of sales for the quarter as compared with 16.4% of sales for the same period last year.
The order of backlog at November 30 2014 was $68.3 million compared to $86.6 million at November 30 2013 and $79.6 million at August 31 2014.
Year-over-year U.S.
and international irrigation backlog levels have decreased reflecting the change in agricultural market conditions while infrastructure backlog has increased.
Our backlog typically represents some long term irrigation and infrastructure project as well as short lead time orders and therefore as I have indicated in the past quarters backlog is generally not a good indication of future quarter’s revenue.
Cash and cash equivalents were $139 million at the end of the quarter and were $12.5 million lower than the same time last year.
The decrease reflects execution of our capital allocation plan announced in January including investing $71.1 million of stock repurchase system at that time.
During the first quarter we repurchased 381 619 shares or $30 million and we continued to execute share repurchases under our 10b5-1 plan.
In summary fiscal 2015 is anticipated to be a continuation of the agricultural cyclical contraction we experienced last fiscal year.
The length and severity of any cycle is difficult to predict but we remain confident in the long term drivers for the efficient agricultural irrigation and water use efficiency globally.
During this period we will continue to appropriately manage expenses balanced against the important priority of aggressively executing our long term strategies and protecting and fielding our global market positions.
We will continue to expand our international footprint including the opening of our factory in Turkey during the second fiscal quarter.
Although the additional capacity may create some short term fixed expense absorption pressure as we rebalance our manufacturing resources we are confident in the incremental profit potential of our global expansion plan.
We will continue to aggressively pursue expansion into new and developing markets in creative ways.
Additionally we are confident that our investments in competitively advantage products and services including our technology and solutions offering will continue to position us well now and as agricultural market conditions improve.
In the infrastructure business we continue to make significant progress in gaining market strength in our road safety and rail products.
We believe we continue this progress in 2015 with further growth margin gains and profitability improvements despite the lack of long term U.S.
highway funding clarity.
Finally the strength of our balance sheet will allow us to continue to invest in creating incremental returns for shareholders through investments in growth opportunities with our growth organic and through acquisitions increasing dividends and opportunistic share repurchases.
I would now like to open it up for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Schon Williams from BB&amp;T Capital.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Rick I wondered if you could maybe just give a little bit of additional color on some of the margin pressures on the irrigation side.
I mean you noted that there was some pricing pressure.
You also noted some kind of higher input costs.
Wondering if you could just talk about what are the trends that you're seeing.
Is it kind of stable? Is it getting worse is it kind of volatile during the quarter and then what specifically on the cost side are you seeing in terms of higher inputs? Well as I mentioned last quarter we saw and we’re hearing anecdotally from our dealers about some increased competitive intensity in some of the markets which was difficult to really determine whether it was coming from manufacturers or specific regions from dealers which is always the case.
We did see that continue we did hear more from our dealers about true competitive intensity and cost specific projects in various regions where pricing became more competitive and it wasn’t specifically from one competitor or another but just in general more competitive.
And that’s not unlike what we would expect to see in a down cycle or down period as we have experienced recently.
Now on the cost side the other factor has been we’ve seen steel price increased approximately 12% to 13% up from the same quarter last year to where we are today with difficulty in this pricing environment and been able to pass through the increases as rapidly as we have in the past.
That was part of the cost input pressure we’ve seen.
But generally what we’ve seen is I probably attribute the margin change that we saw in the irrigation market is about half been related to pricing pressure and half to cost or to input cost increases.
Okay thank you.
And then on infrastructure one of your large competitors on the -- road barriers crash barriers is going through some litigation at this point.
I am just wondering are you seeing any benefit from that at this point.
While we have definitely seen some benefit from that in terms of the sales of our in terminals and we are aware of the issues that are going on with our competitor in that category and I think we are one of the three companies that can provide those or have approved in terminals for those those applications.
So we are definitely seeing some benefit from it it is difficult to tell how long that of duration that will last for whether it’s permanent or whether it’s disappointing time but there’s definitely been some benefit Hi thanks I’ll get back in the queue.
Your next question comes from the line of Nathan Jones from Stifel.
Jim Hello Hi can you hear me? Yeah.
Sorry guys.
Could I just get a clarification firstly on the environmental expenses? Is this a kind of one time true up or are we expecting to see continued higher levels in environmental expenses? Well the environmental accrual is something that we estimate on an ongoing basis for relative to some information that we have available at the time as Rick indicated we had a meeting with the EPA in December.
In that meeting a couple of things came out one of which was some request for some additional information as well as we had a change actually in management of the site from the EPA standpoint.
So like this is just kind of reflective of environmental situations in general which is there are always potential for changes and circumstances and so we update on a regular basis what that assessment is of what those costs are.
And that’s essentially what happened in this quarter is as a result of those changes we increased the timeline that we expect to be dealing with the environmental issue until we increase the reserve with respect to kind of ongoing issues and how I can really say is we continue to work with EPA and there are a number of uncertainties involved in this type of situation but there is always a potential where there will be changes in the estimates in the future but I couldn’t really comment on any particulars with regard to whether there would be win or forward or magnitude type of things.
Understood but absent any changes this would be a one-time expense then to increase the reserve? Absent any changes yes this would be a one-time item.
Okay if we go on from there you had 250 basis points down in irrigation.
I guess some of that's a little bit of mix change there with international being a bit higher.
You talked on the last call about a typical down cycle seeing 300 to 500 basis points of gross margin compression.
Do you expect the pricing pressure to get worse in the next few quarters remain the same? Yeah I don’t know – this is Rick I would not necessarily describe the pricing pressure to get worse.
I would say that we would expect it to continue and we’ve talked about the 300 to 500 basis points compression in gross margin.
We talk about as really the pricing pressure input cost changes in cost de-leveraging to some extent as well.
Now as we point out our factory in Nebraska is doing a great job in terms of mitigating the deleveraging impact with a lien implementation and very responsive to what’s taking place around a fixed cost basis and clearly to whatever extent possible variable cost I mean this is variable cost and a fixed cost as well.
So from that standpoint they are doing a great job but we can’t control the pricing issue or necessarily the cost input side.
And I guess the big bright spot was the international revenue there which grew off a pretty robust number from first quarter of last year.
Are there projects that are going to run out here is this a sustainable level outside of the seasonality of course where are we in international revenue? There was nothing significant in the first quarter from a project standpoint that would be running out anything of that nature and is always the case in the international markets we have many pending potential projects that are either in discussion or is that various form of taking shape.
So that continues and we haven’t really seen anything change particularly in the international markets.
I would comment that I do believe that commodity price pressures that we have seen are contractions we seen in the U.S.
does flow over into the international markets however as I mentioned in the beginning we’re seeing the progression of these projects really undaunted in terms of they are still proceeding as we have seen in the past.
Okay thanks very much guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes fr4om the line of Brett Wong from Piper Jaffray Thanks for taking my questions.
Happy New Year.
I just wanted to dig into the international side a little bit more for irrigation.
Based on your commentary Rick it seems and your slides it seems like your slides are a little bit more cautious than your commentary on demand for irrigation.
Is there any concern there? Why kind of the discrepancy? I’m not sure I would note a discrepancy in it.
I can’t I’m not really familiar with what specifically you are referring to in the slides.
I mean just it seems in your last comment you are talking more about how demand or international market haven’t really changed whereas in your slides you call it a bunch of I mean your factors your market factors that look like they the four market conditions are all pretty negative.
Well I think there are some market conditions that we would be concerned about going forward.
I mean we are seeing things for example the Russian rouble there has been some concern over slowdown in the economy in Brazil however we haven’t really seen that materialize into anything significant yet.
I think there is concern with the European economy to some degree certainly what’s happening in Greece in terms of election to have some impact.
So there’s a number of factors that are of some concern which is always the case but nothing really significant that stands out and as I commented the projects that we have been working on and tracking and working through with our customer base have generally been proceeding.
The ones I would be more concerned about in the near term would probably be some of the Russian projects where the -- with the plummet of the rouble its more likely to impact their purchasing capacity and yes the dialogue is still the same today.
So there is some concern going forward but I wouldn’t really characterise it as certainly the bottom point out or anything of that nature.
Okay.
Great that’s great color thanks.
And just on those kind of projects that you are seeing on the horizon are there any in different regions other than the ones that you have mentioned in your commentary Middle East Africa and Australia there are other regions that are – you see opportunity in? Well there is definitely opportunity.
I would say that when we look at the growth potential in the international market that we are looking at Brazil China South America Africa and really many different markets and in the past we’ve really focussed on Russia and Ukraine as well as great potential growth which I still do see as a great potential growth just more challenging in the near term.
Okay great.
And then on the technology side FieldNET as you called out has been a good offering a strong offering and just wondering if there's anything else in the pipeline in new offerings that you guys are considering or additional functionality for FieldNET as competition continues to increase in that sector? As I have mentioned in the past FieldNET is a very good strong operating process and very successful and we are very pleased with the market penetration we’re getting the FieldNET.
We will continue to expand on the solution offering in total and the features that are FieldNET.
We also believe that the acquisition of Elecsys Corp has the additional capability and experience for us in terms of expanding what we offer in that market as well as other water related market sectors in addition to the ones that we are already participating in.
So I think this is really building our platform to continue to expand that capability and technology.
Excellent great I’ll hop back in line.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Mondillo from Sidotti.
Hi guys.
Good morning Joe.
Just to jump on to that last question just wondering if you could sort of give us an idea where you are in terms of water use efficiency type technology relative to the competition out there.
It’s a fairly broad question and it’s natural that I could answer… Well I guess maybe it’s more specifically on the irrigation side atleast how does the irrigation equipment in terms of that technology compare to your competitors? Well we still characterise our technology on the irrigation side as leading and the best in the industry in terms of its complexicity or let’s say it’s features that in terms of the core solution offering integration of the pumping system plus all the other factors and features that we have built in through FieldNET.
I think it is leading in that sense.
Now there are some other aspects of other competition we are seeing and other features that we would like to build into to FieldNET but I’m not really going to get into depth for competitive reasons but we do see some great opportunities to continue to build out that product line and expand it.
We also see opportunities to take what we’ve done with FieldNET and apply it into other applications or similar applications also tied to water use efficiency.
Okay.
And then in terms of acquisitions acquisitions is a big part of that sort of strategy of extending your technology base.
You just made a pretty sizeable acquisition compared to your history at least.
Could you talk about how the pipeline looks and are we anticipating maybe a deal or two more within the next 12 months? We still have an active pipeline with the couple of good candidates in it that I could anticipate taking place but I would never really predict timing on those just because they as you know with acquisitions they kind of come and go depending on negotiations and a number of other factors.
So it’s very difficult to predict the probability of acquisitions.
I will say that I’m very pleased with what Elecsys adds in terms of capability that allows us to do quite a bit more in terms of internal organic development of applications and solutions in different market.
We continue to look at acquisitions on the technology side but they’re probably more specific features or characteristic things that would plug into what we’re doing with FieldNET or other technology products today.
But in addition to that we’re looking at acquisitions that fit other water use efficiency type applications for example more in terms of filtration more in terms of pump stations those types of things which have been successful for us that could continue to expand that product line that offering.
Okay great.
And then lastly Jim I was wondering if you could expand on the recognition of the Golden Gate project.
I think you guys mentioned there was a cost benefit related to the first quarter.
And then I guess the installation is happening I think this weekend so is all the revenue going to hit in the second quarter and should we see any other benefits in or any recognition in the back half of the year regarding that? So you are correct the Golden Gate installation is schedule to occur this weekend and the revenue recognition for the project would all occur once that installation is complete and it’s up and running so that it would all fall into this quarter.
With regard to the comment on the margin impact in the first quarter there was a fair amount of production both of machines and of barriers that were filling through our manufacturing plans and so we have higher utilization and better absorption as a result of the production that occurred in the first quarter and that did help the margin on the infrastructure side.
So how does that translate into the margin in the second quarter? Do you not see as higher margin even though you see the revenue recognition or how does that work? You know the margins should still be the same in the second quarter from the revenue recognition it’s just the matter of things like we don’t have – we have lower idle resources.
We have better utilization of the overhead costs.
And so it’s really just the matter of where we might have negative manufacturing variances when we have normal production level when we’ve got higher production levels like this those access costs are reduced in the quarter.
Okay.
Got you.
Thanks a lot guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Drab from William Blair.
Hi Jim.
Just following up to that last question on the Golden Gate Bridge I’m wondering how much – can you quantify the impact on the gross margin maybe on consolidated basis or impact on operating margin overall from that increased productivity in the quarter? It’s a really – on the consolidated it’s not a tremendously significant number and first of all obviously the revenue base in the infrastructure business is much smaller than the irrigation business.
But then even within infrastructure the bigger impacts were overall sales volume and the cost reductions that Rick alluded in his comment on some of the cost changes that we had made as well as just the mix of business and within the road safety business has a little bit of higher margin than what we see in some of the areas other areas of infrastructure.
So it’s a relative that productivity piece is a relatively smaller amount versus some of the other impacts.
Okay.
So if I rank ordered the items or factors that impacted margin in the quarter can you just help me do that again that there is mix in infrastructure cost cutting productivities towards the bottom of the list? Yeah.
I’d say generally that ranking is pretty accurate.
Okay okay.
Can you tell us what percentage of the irrigation segment sales are now associated with non-pivot business? Pumps filtration systems and other just roughly maybe? We don’t have that handy and available.
We haven’t disclosed that in the past and I don’t think we are prepared to do that at this time.
Okay.
Okay.
And then this is asked I think to some extend earlier but in terms of operating expenses you talked through the uncertainties related to the EPA situation but as we move into the second quarter barring any continued increased expenses related to environmental issues would we reasonably expect that operating expenses might be down you know about a $1 million or $1.5 million commensurate with what you caught in the first quarter year-over-year looking at second quarter operating expenses could that be down $1 million or so? Yeah.
With respect to the SG&amp;A expenses I think the way I would think about it because there is obviously kind of some seasonality in the business but excluding those costs we had in the first quarter related to acquisition and environmental assuming we don’t – we wouldn’t have similar type expenses.
We’re expecting that our SG&amp;A for the year will probably be in the range of around 16%.
And I’d also say that’s exclusive of the addition of the Elecsys because their SG&amp;A does run a little bit higher.
The other point I would probably add is that there is a fair amount of commission related to the Golden Gate Bridge project in particular and so the commission expenses might be a little bit higher in the second quarter as well.
Okay.
So 16% for the year we did $9.4 million in the second quarter in G&amp;A and you’d have to assume that that’s 10 assured even 11 for the rest of the year to get to 16% it just down year-over-year so I’m wondering if we can talk a little bit more about that.
I don’t see how you get to 16% if you’ve got a $1 million per quarter out of your offering expenses.
Where is that mainly coming out? I guess that would be coming out of G&amp;A wouldn’t it? Well the 16% is is total SG&amp;A.
Yeah.
As a percentage of sales and obviously if you exclude the $2 million in the first quarter we were at about 17% and it’s a seasonally lower quarter so as you see some of the revenue changes and we are obviously also looking at other costs and opportunities where we can reduced some costs as well.
Okay.
But I think in that 16% range it should about where we’re at.
Okay.
Thanks.
Yeah I think I’m probably low on the selling expense and related to the Golden Gate Bridge.
And then can you update – can you tell us what the number was in terms of replacement versus dry land versus flood conversion in the quarter? Yes.
This is Rich.
We saw the numbers really kind of reflect what we history seen almost the even split of a third a third a third in the quarter so it was back to those kinds of levels in fact more precisely the conversion with 36% of sales the dry land was 30% and replacement 34%.
Dry land 30% okay okay.
And then lastly you been averaging about $50 million and then $51 million over the last five quarters in the international irrigation segments and I was a little – I was still left uncertain with how to model that going forward given Rick you laid out very well the reason to be cautious going forward and also some reasons to be optimistic.
Can you give us any sense for it that kind of 50 million average per quarter in that international irrigation business is a reasonable expectation do we do up or down from there for the balance of the year? It’s very difficult; I’m not going to really project what the quarter sales would be.
I would just say that the international markets as we’ve talked about in the past are really a combination of many different markets with a lot of different factors taking place and we’ve described them as historically being double-digit kind of growth usually in the teens in terms of overall annual growth we haven’t seen anything this significantly changes our view of perspective on that.
It will vary from quarter to quarter depending on projects in specific regions as we’ve seen in Middle East and different areas so I can’t really give a specific number in terms of what to project for that.
All right.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew O'Conor from BMO Asset Management.
Good morning Rich Jim.
Good morning.
You know wanted to know did Lindsay have a working relationship with Elecsys prior to the acquisition offer? And then secondly what industry segments where Elecsys revenues derived from for the prior 12 months amongst water energy agriculture and transportation? Thanks so much.
Lindsay did not have a relationship with Elecsys prior to identifying them as an acquisition candidate.
They were – it something that came about by our view of potential targeted sectors or industries and it appeared as a very good target from an acquisition standpoint.
We did not have a prior relationship.
I think their website has probably does a pretty good job of breaking out some of the markets that they participate in which included some water related oil and gas rail industry and few other sectors that including some in irrigation but I think their website does pretty good job of breaking that out.
So would that revenue pie change considerably Rick once they become part of Lindsay? I don’t of course see a significant change in that pie.
I think that’s obviously and there is work that we see Elecsys taking on for us more that they will do and opportunities or some consolidation with some of our activity with Elecsys but in addition we see opportunities to continue to grow their business in total in all of the sectors that they’re in and that’s our desire.
We think they’ve done a lot of capability both from a manufacturing and technical standpoints and we – our plan to expand on that.
Okay and then lastly I read in the release that the Company expects to raise $100 million via long term debt over the next several months so I’m wondering what portion of the Elecsys acquisition will be financed with debt and then what portion with cash? Thanks again.
This is Jim and I would say that that is – I wouldn’t -- its connected to the Elecsys transaction and that the timing is about the same but I think its more broadly connected to our overall strategy with regard our growth initiatives to increase our organic growth through CapEx as well as external growth through acquisition but then also returning cash to shareholders through increases in dividend as well as opportunistic share repurchases.
So the debt will help us to accomplish those objectives with our capital plan and certainly with the $70 million acquisition the debt will replenish our cash kind of at about the same time line as the acquisition gets completed.
Okay.
Thanks Jim.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Bennett from Sterne Agee.
Hey guys good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just a quick question on the buyback we've had a couple of quarters now I guess between $20 million and $30 million per quarter.
Jim I guess should we expect that level going forward or I mean I know you said you're going to be opportunistic but just trying to get a gauge on kind of what we should expect there? I wouldn’t necessarily point to a particular number that you should expect as you alluded to we expect to be opportunistic.
We’ve had 10b5-1 program in place that we would expect to continue and the design of that program is to allow us to really take advantage of the stock price situation.
So we would expect that we would buy more if the stock were to go down and buy less if it were go up but we are committed to the share repurchase program.
We think its inappropriate use of capital for shareholders benefit and we’ll continue to execute as we have.
Got you.
And then should we be focused more on the $100 million or the $150 million at this point.
Do you have any comments on that? Well the board authorization is it for up to $150 million and so we’re focused on that number as we go forward.
Okay cool.
Then lastly kind of following up on the last caller raising a bunch of debt and then your cash balances right now are still kind of twice what you want it to be.
I mean can you go into maybe some of the organic growth initiatives that you guys have going on right now or you have planned to use some of that cash? Well the organic growth initiatives that we have are primarily on the capital side and as we’ve alluded to you that we primarily focused on expansion of our capacity in the international market and you’ve heard some of that with what we’re doing in Turkey with the opening of the plant here in the second quarter as well as last quarter we mentioned the fact that we acquired the facility that we releasing in Brazil and all of this is really around helping us with our vertical integration in our international markets so that as those markets grow we can be increasingly competitive and efficient in those plants.
I wouldn’t necessarily point to anything in particular other than to say if those types of addition that we’re looking to execute going forward.
Got you.
That makes sense.
Thank you guys.
Your next question comes from the line Chris Shaw from Monness Crespi.
Do you guys see any impact from the later harvest in the quarter? Do you think it either delayed sales or pushed sales potentially into the second quarter at all? We really haven’t heard much about that really have an impact as they are dealer in general they have been a little bit of delay in terms of the harvest having some impact in terms of their sales during the quarter but really not much of anything significant that I’m aware of Then I guess subsequently the Section 179 do you see any late rush at the end of the year as people take advantage of that once that got passed? Well it was so late in the year that it really couldn’t have much impact unfortunately in terms of the year.
I wouldn’t be surprised if there were some orders that came in towards the end of the year and because of the Section 179 passing but I would say it’s the fairly small and significant amount in total nothing that would really be very significant.
It would had to have occurred much earlier in the year to really have had an impact.
And then when you're talking the irrigation the growth in both pumps and filtration I don't know exactly what drives the demand for pumps and filtration and is filtration is that business all about the lack of product? Yes.
The filtration is the yes product yes.
And in terms of the increases in pump systems and filtration some of them will be in to market outside of agriculture as well for example our Watertronics business sells pump stations in Golf courses landscape applications and some municipal applications call in the valves stones pump stations into heat transfer type applications and other type of industrial applications outside of agriculture.
So those are areas of growth but in addition will be projects sales where we’re selling pump stations and filtration systems along with our pivots.
Okay.
Great.
That helps.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Haydon from Tipp Hill Capital.
Heard this in the past but how much capacity is being added through the Turkish facility and what is the capital investment? Well I would say its similar from a capacity standpoint whenever we add a facility we do it in a little bit of a phased approach so that we can add production cost effectively.
Over time it could be much larger and as I said we would say that as we saw volumes increase but its not a significant amount of production capacity although it will help us to move some of our export business closer to our customers there.
Okay.
And what was the capital expenditure for it? Well the CapEx the CapEx number is roughly $10 million or $12 million.
How much of the export business that you are doing would be manufactured in that facility? I don’t recall exactly the number but we export to a variety of areas around the world from our U.S facility and this will service basically Europe Western Europe Eastern Europe Northern Africa.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jose Garza from Gabelli.
Hello.
Hello good morning.
Good morning.
Just couple of quick ones.
Jim just how are you guys going to segment the Elecsys acquisition once it’s completed? So we’re still working through that at the current time we expected to fit into the irrigation segment but we do need to work through that a little bit before we make final determination.
Okay and then just thinking about FX and how you guys kind of maybe changing a little bit based upon what the current environment is right now versus where you kind of started at the beginning of the year any changes to maybe capital plan or how you are approaching that? I’m not sure I understand exactly your question could you repeat that? Any changes to your capital plan just based upon the environment and remind us kind of where you think capital expenditures are for the year? Okay.
Okay.
We’re planning on capital expenditures of about $20 million to $25 million.
We haven’t modified that outlook but we certainly have flexibilities if we were to see further changes but at this point we’re continuing with our original plan.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard O'Riley from Revere Associates.
Good morning gentlemen.
Does the drop in energy and fuel costs make much of a difference to your domestic customers and I'm thinking in terms of pumping cost or do they buy electric and its water is the big cost? They are primarily buying electric.
Water is the tough one because it’s often very little cost with the water itself that they are using but electricity would be a cost.
The reduced energy cost in total is beneficial to farmers in terms of their overall input cost in farming operations which does improve their profitability per acre or per bushel in the crop production so that could be beneficial to us with standpoints of expanding that profit which therefore makes us sometimes often more beneficial to add in irrigation to expand yields as well.
So there are some definite benefits from that farming standpoint when energy costs are reduced.
Okay.
And I guess on the international side it could be a negative depending on the customer in the particular country would that be a general assumptions? There are some cases where there will be markets where it can be a negative because that will reduce obviously the energy revenues coming into that country and may reduce some of the projects that we could see in certain regions.
So that something that we’re watching as well but there are many investments that are taking place within pumps they coming out of the Middle East into various projects around the world that have been fairly strong in terms of the activity level of projects and whether they will proceed as planned we really don’t know but we haven’t seen anything change yet.
Okay good.
Thank you for the answer.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Rose from Wedbush Security.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
This is actually James Kim calling here for David.
Most of my questions have been answered but one question I have just following up on the international operations irrigation operations and you spoke obviously about improving margins profile there for vertical integration is there anything else you could talk about other than the expansion of Turkey and the timing of potentially closing the margins spread between domestic and international which you had previously commented was between 5% and 7%.
I know its going to be a long process but as your international sales continue to make a bigger portion of your business just curious what your thoughts are there and if you could talk about your progress there? Thank you.
Well there's nothing really specific to comment on at this time other than to say I don't view this as necessarily a really long process.
I do view it as a process that will take place as market opportunities are realized in the sense that we're watching in Brazil for example where we've considered additional CapEx that our investment there to do some things with our factory.
If that market slows down that may postpone making some of those investments but we really it's too soon to call that in terms of whether it will proceed as we're expecting or not.
But we're looking at each market individually and as the market warrants in terms of demand or growth opportunities we will invest additional capital and expand our vertical integration.
And just quickly is the margin gap still about 5% to 7% at this point? What the generalization we’ve made in terms of all of the international business units together and said that they are in the range of that 5% to 7% margin difference mostly due to the vertical integration and that would still be generally the case.
Great.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Peter van Roden from Spitfire Capital.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Just going back to the pricing impact on margins so you said that the impact on margins in past cycles have been 300 to 500 basis points.
Is that on the gross margin side or the operating margin side? Well that comment was on gross margin and it was not in reference to solely pricing.
This is just talking about what we've seen in the down cycles in the past would be a three to 500 basis point reduction in gross margins and generally domestic irrigation segment tied to pricing pressure and input cost changes combined and some de-leveraging of costs due to the lower volumes.
Got it and then as you guys think about sort of the health of your dealer network how are they holding up in this downturn? The dealers are holding up quite well.
We haven’t really seen anything negative with the dealer network yet I would say they are holding up well.
They are used to these cycles I always get a little concerned with some of the newer dealers who haven’t seen the cycle before and they tend to in really peak period respond to it and want to invest more and grow fast and find that that’s not necessarily the right thing to do is to draw a lot of money into it because there is the downside of the cycle.
But say our dealers are pretty experienced well established and in pretty good shape and we don’t anticipate any major dealer issues in this process.
Okay.
Well thanks guys good luck.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Parod for closing remarks.
While we’re in the midst of a cyclical downturn for the irrigation segment where a global long-term drivers of water conservation population growth and the importance of bio-fuel and the need for safer and more efficient transportation solutions remain positive.
Lindsay is committed to creating value for shareholders through organic growth dividends accretive acquisition and share repurchases.
I’d like to thank you for your questions and participation in this call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Kimberly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker's remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which reflect management's current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
With me on today's call is Jim Raabe Lindsay Corporation's Chief Financial Officer and Lori Zarkowski our Chief Accounting Officer.
Total revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2015 were $141.1 million 8% less than the $152.8 million revenue in the same quarter last year.
U.S.
and international irrigation revenues decreased and were partially offset by increases in infrastructure sales.
Operating margins decreased to 10.3% in the quarter compared to 13.7% in the same quarter last year.
Net earnings were $9 million or $0.75 per diluted share compared with $13.5 million or $1.04 per diluted share in the prior year quarter.
For the first six months of fiscal 2015 total revenues were $275.9 million decreasing 8% from the same period last year.
Net earnings were $16.6 million or $1.36 per diluted share compared to $23.7 million or $1.83 per diluted share in the prior year.
Foreign currency exchange negatively affected year-to-date sales by approximately 2% and operating earnings by a little more than 1%.
For the irrigation segment in total sales were $108.3 million 20% lower from the same quarter last year.
Irrigation operating margins decreased to 11% of sales from 18.1% of sales last year due to lower US sales competitive pricing pressure as well as de-leveraging of fixed expenses.
In the US irrigation market revenues were $68 million for the second quarter decreasing 27% from the same period last year and declining 30% excluding the revenue from the newly acquired Elecsys Corporation.
Lower commodity prices and reduced farm income have driven the reduction causing a dampening of farmer sentiment regarding investments.
As the primary selling season is now underway US order volumes have been within anticipated level for 2015 with the most significant reductions in the corn belt region.
While corn prices have stabilized over the last few months they remain well below peak in 2012 and in February the USDA forecasted 2015 net farm income to be 32% below 2014.
With a reduction in export demand anticipated and ethanol production under pressure there does not appear to be a current catalyst for sustainable corn price improvement.
However weather remains a wildcard in agricultural production and a major weather event can change the picture relatively quickly.
In the international irrigation markets revenues for the second quarter were $40.3 million decreasing 6% over the same quarter last year with the decrease driven primarily by foreign exchange impact.
Revenue declines in the Middle East Europe and Russia were partially offset by sales increases in Australia with increases also in Brazil and Canada.
Our outlook for irrigation equipment demand in international markets remains positive although competitive intensity for large projects have increased and the strengthened dollar could affect sales in some markets.
At the beginning of March we began manufacturing operations at our facility in Turkey.
While the start-up will potentially have minor negative impact to our margins as we gain scale and experience at this new facility the addition of manufacturing capacity in the region will provide opportunities for sales growth and margin improvement.
We expect to ship our first pivots from this facility by the end of this month.
In addition we began including Elecsys Corporation results in irrigation segment late in January.
Elecsys contributed $3.5 million in sales and was roughly breakeven after factoring in purchase accounting adjustments.
More importantly performance was in line with our expectations.
The integration of Elecsys Corporation is proceeding well including the consolidation of some manufacturing operations into their facility in Kansas.
We’re very pleased with the management of Elecsys and are excited about what they can contribute to the development of our technology platform as well as improving the cost and quality of our electronic technologies.
We expect Elecsys results to be accretive to our earnings in the first 12 month of operations.
For the first six months of fiscal 2015 total irrigation segment revenues decreased 16% to $223 million.
In the US irrigation market revenues were $129.1 million 25% lower than the prior year.
In the international markets irrigation revenues were $93.9 million 2% higher than the prior year and approximately 6% higher after consideration of the foreign exchange impact.
Infrastructure segment revenues were $32.8 million in the quarter increasing 94% from the same quarter last year driven by the completion of the $12.7 million Road Zipper system installation on the Golden Gate Bridge and higher road safety product revenues.
The infrastructure segment generated operating income of $7.3 million in the quarter compared to breakeven in the second quarter of last year due to the higher Road Zipper project sales.
Our outlook for infrastructure continues to be positive although somewhat mitigated by the lack of a long-term US Highway Bill.
For the first six months of fiscal 2015 infrastructure revenues increased 49% to $52.9 million with operating margins of 18%.
As we disclosed recently the president of the infrastructure segment left the organization at the end of the quarter.
While this resulted in untimely vacancy we have experienced and dedicated business managers in the infrastructure segment who are conducting business as usual.
I am confident in the infrastructure’s team ability to maintain the momentum they have built while leader is selected for the segment.
Gross profit in the second quarter was $39.6 million or 28% of sales versus $42.7 million or 27.9% of sales in the same quarter last year.
Gross margins in irrigation decreased by approximately 3 percentage points as compared to the same quarter last year.
A more competitive pricing environment and costs deleveraged on lower sales had a negative impact on margins.
The pricing environment both in the US and on large projects in international market is expected to remain competitive in the near-term.
Infrastructure gross margins increased by approximately 14 percentage points primarily due to an improved product mix of road safety products and the completion of the Road Zipper project on the Golden Gate Bridge.
Operating expenses in the second quarter increased to $25 million from $21.8 million in the prior year period.
$3 million of the increase in expenses is due to the inclusion of Elecsys which added $1 million of operating expenses in the quarter $1 million of acquisition and integration expenses and $1 million attributable to a combination of overall increased medical costs as well as increased commissions on higher infrastructure revenue.
Included in the integration expense is the planned consolidation of our Digitec manufacturing facility in Nebraska with the Elecsys facility in Kansas.
This resulted in expenses in the quarter for severance costs as well as the write-down of certain fixed assets and intangibles.
While this consolidation is taking place at this time I’d like to compliment the Digitec management and entire team for their cooperation and professionalism through this process.
The order backlog at February 28 2015 was $74.3 million compared to $89.3 million at February 28 2014 and $68.3 million at November 30 2014.
The February 28 2015 backlog includes $7.9 million of backlog of Elecsys Corporation.
Year-over-year irrigation backlog levels excluding Elecsys have decreased reflecting the change in the agricultural market conditions.
Infrastructure backlog has also decreased now that we’ve completed the Golden Gate Bridge project.
Our backlog typically represents some long-term irrigation and infrastructure projects as well as short lead time orders and therefore as I have indicated in the past backlog is generally not a good indication of future quarters’ revenues.
Cash and cash equivalents were $167 million at the end of the quarter and were $1.7 million higher than the same time last year.
We’ve continued the execution of our capital allocation plan including the acquisition of Elecsys the investment of $90.4 million on the repurchase of company stock continuation of dividend increases and continued investment in organic growth initiatives.
At the same time we’ve also completed a private placement of debt for $115 million with a due date of February 2030 taking advantage of historically low interest rates.
The added debt improves our capital structure and positions us for additional growth through acquisitions and other initiatives in driving improved returns for shareholders.
In summary as we progress through the primary selling season the irrigation equipment market remains constrained.
US demand continues to be affected by lower commodity prices and reduced farm incomes as anticipated.
While competitive pricing pressure remains it does not appear to have worsened other than becoming more prevalent on large international projects.
This too is not unexpected.
The near-term market challenges include high stocks of corn and the strengthened dollar.
However the need for increased agricultural production to meet the needs of the growing population will continue to drive irrigation equipment demand.
While farmer sentiment regarding investment may be dampened irrigation equipment provides an attractive return on investment.
During the quarter we made significant progress on a number of project initiatives.
The infrastructure team completed the Golden Gate Bridge project which not only made driving on the bridge more safe but also significantly increased visibility of our unique Road Zipper solution.
In addition our irrigation team put the final touches on our manufacturing plant in Turkey and are now ramping up production.
This facility better positions us to serve irrigation equipment customers timely and cost effectively now as well as providing a platform for vertical integration cost reduction and the supply of other Lindsay products in the future.
Also as mentioned earlier we completed the Elecsys acquisition and have begun the integration of planned consolidation of electronics manufacturing operations.
We’re confident that this acquisition will facilitate future sales and earnings growth and contribute to the advancement of our leadership position in irrigation.
Finally we completed the $115 million long-term private debt placement at very attractive interest rates further enhancing our balance sheet.
All of these transactions reflected solid execution and teamwork throughout the Lindsay organization.
We're persistently enhancing our position to meet the challenges and to take advantage of the opportunities we see in the markets we serve.
We’re uniquely positioned for developing and delivering turnkey irrigation solutions for agriculture providing the best irrigation management and control technologies providing a broad line of market-leading irrigation solutions engineering integrated pumping and filtration solutions for landscape and industrial applications as well as providing energy absorbing road safety solutions and Quickchange Moveable Barrier that expands the capacity of existing roads and bridge infrastructure.
I would now like to open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question is from the line of Nathan Jones with Stifel.
Just if I can start with a couple of housekeeping items.
Can you just give us any color on what the impact of the purchase price accounting from the Elecsys acquisition was in the quarter? Sure.
I would say that we’ve been very pleased with overall the Elecsys performance today it’s only been five and half weeks but obviously the sales performance was very good.
The operating margins excluding the purchase price adjustments approached 20%.
So we’ve also been very pleased with what we've seen from an earnings standpoint from Elecsys as well.
I think obviously we do have some purchase price adjustments.
I would say that some of those as you’re probably aware amortized fairly quickly.
So a part of those -- the difference between kind of what they have seen historically and the as adjusted numbers will get improved over the next couple of quarters and then further the transition of the manufacturing facilities out of Milford into Elecsys will provide some additional improvements for Lindsay as a whole from an operating margin standpoint going forward.
Okay.
Could you possibly give us any indication of what kind of impact you’re expecting from the integration purchase price accounting wrapping that all up on earnings over the next quarter or two? Well I would say the next quarter or two the impacts will not be that significant because the transition is occurring now but I think by the time we get to the end of the year we will get most of those benefits.
So I wouldn’t see a significant change in the next quarter or so.
Okay and then if we can just go to the pricing environment on domestic irrigation the checks we’ve done would suggest that Lindsay hasn't been cutting price to the dealers.
When you’re talking about pricing pressure are you talking about that potentially maybe [Trimble] [ph] and others cutting price that you’re not does this impact on margins? Well I missed the piece of the question because it broke up unfortunately but at least on our end but I think the comment was that we’re not seeing in terms of your dealer check it’s showing that Lindsay is not reducing price to the dealers.
I would say that that the overall we’ve seen that some of the projects that we’re bidding whether it’s domestic or international are becoming more competitive in terms of – we’re often hearing back that there is more competition and some of our competitors’ dealers are more competitive which puts our leaders into a more competitive situation.
But we have seen some price change some of that may be mix related in terms of some of the types of machines that are sold tend to be a little – let’s say lower cost different type of product than maybe we did see in the previous year.
So we have seen some price change in that but it’s a little bit of a movement towards the less expensive machines.
Okay and if I could just ask one more on price.
Going forward do you feel like you're going to need to reduce price to your dealers in order to keep them competitive in the marketplace or do you feel like you can maintain price synergies? Well I would say that we will do what we need to to keep our dealers competitive and to protect our market share as we have in the past.
We don't have an indication that there's any significant change from what we've seen that we have to make in order to be able to do that.
I do think that we’re seeing competitive pressure that is moving towards in many cases as I said some less expensive machine possibly lighter machines in some cases or fewer features and we’re going to have to be able to provide competitive features from that standpoint.
We will do what we have to do in order to keep our dealers competitive.
At the same time we’re going to continue to differentiate and try not to erode the price situation.
Your next question is from the line of Schon Williams with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
I wondered if we could maybe just talk about the project pipeline for the infrastructure business.
Now with Golden Gate behind you can you talk about what you see in terms of opportunities over the next 6 to 12 months? Do you feel more optimistic less optimistic and then anything maybe that you're hearing in terms of Highway Bill into the summer this fall any update there would be helpful? Yes.
I'm not hearing much of significance in terms of a highway bill take that first I would say that in talking with our people in DC that we work with there is a lot of discussion about infrastructure.
There's a greater awareness that something needs to be done in order to address the highway situation infrastructure situation in general.
And yet I can't say that I am optimistic about action being taken but maybe I'm just a pessimist in this case it’s just that it’s taking too long to get to a solution but at some point it will have to change.
Now looking at it from a pipeline standpoint primarily for projects like the Road Zipper system similar to what we have in the Golden Gate Bridge we typically maintain a strong pipeline list that can be anywhere from $100 million to $200 million in identified projects where we’re talking with companies or states or governments on potential projects and they will be in various stages of discussions.
Often projects will take to three years on gestation period in order to - from the beginning of the discussion to when something happens.
Golden Gate Bridge took 30 that’s obviously very unusual situation.
The pipeline I would say right now is good.
We have projects on that pipeline in our pipeline today that are as big as and some bigger than the Golden Gate Bridge project but nothing I would consider to be imminent.
I do think we’re in a better position than we were say a year or so ago where we have a little more of a sustainable pipeline of projects sale projects but also lease projects for our moveable barrier system.
So I am optimistic.
I am optimistic from the standpoint of revenue stream that can come from the moveable barrier.
I am optimistic in terms of eventually getting to a more sustainable highway bill in place that will support the road safety products in general.
And then I wondered if we could just maybe focus on the leadership within infrastructure.
Obviously there has been some turnover there the last couple of years.
I wondered if you -- if you were to kind of dream of what your ideal candidate for that job would be is it more of an operational person is it more of a marketing and growth leader? Maybe talk about what you would ideally like to see in that position versus in recent history? Well I’d just say that from what we've done in the past just to take it from a recent history standpoint as we’ve used a leadership position infrastructure as part of organization development position and it's been a situation where we obviously were not pleased with the outcome recently.
But I don't consider this a major setback.
I think that the infrastructure business is in a very strong position because of the strong managers we have in that business.
And I think the business leader to run this going forward is one that can really help to facilitate with the team removing obstacles developing focus clarifying the strategy further I would say that with the good experienced business managers as we have they don't need to be told what to do.
They’ve been executing very well.
Most of what I think a leader in this case is going to be doing is helping to remove obstacles and develop that focus and facilitate any conflicts and other things that come up either between the infrastructure business segment pieces or other areas.
So that’s the kind of leader we need and somebody who can pull them together and keep them moving forward in a very focused way and help to facilitate those business managers.
Your next question is from the line of Brett Wong with Piper Jaffray.
First just looking at the recent acquisition I was wondering what your expectations for Elecsys contribution was this year or basically what are you kind of looking at for growth for that business compared to last year and then on a seasonality standpoint should we expect kind of a similar seasonality that we saw before? I would say that for your model purposes and things that you would look at from a seasonality standpoint I probably wouldn't change much from what you’ve seen.
And we’re not really identifying the specific growth that we’re seeing from this but the purpose of the acquisition -- really have multiple purposes for Lindsay.
One is to further strengthen and build our technologies that we use in the irrigation segment to develop the path for future growth in those technologies.
But also as we see growth opportunities within the Elecsys business itself we believe that we can – we are well positioned to be able to support those growth initiatives.
So at this point I am not going to break out any specific growth that we would say for it.
The other the third piece of this from our perspective was the consolidation of manufacturing operations.
And there is a pretty significant benefit we get by consolidating the operations there but also we get I believe quality improvement and more consistency because of the type of manufacturing processes that they have has nothing to do with much else in that I think it’s a very efficient and well run operation that we can benefit from from a technology standpoint in many ways.
And on the international competition are there any specific markets where you’re seeing that pick up more than others? No I would probably characterize it as where we see large agricultural projects which could be Middle East or Africa or anywhere we’re seeing a little bit more competition and I expect that we’re going to see a little more aggressive competition from our European competitors who are probably in a little better pricing position today obviously than they were a year ago.
So I'm not surprised at the increased competition given a little bit of contraction in the market but we’re seeing it wherever there are significant projects to go after and I'm sure we will have some of our let’s say institutional type customers who will use that a bit as well to solicit more competition to some extent in the large projects.
And then you guys can quantify how opening of the Turkey plant will benefit the international irrigation market? We don’t have anything to quantify that at this point.
The intention had always been to transfer some of the manufacturing operation that’s handled in the United States in terms of export to Europe and Middle East to that operation in Turkey and that would alleviate some capacity issues when – in the let’s say peak of the market that will give us more capacity to respond and respond quicker in the United States than some other export markets.
But at the same time I think this really positions us well now especially given some of the changes we've seen with euro to the dollar positions us well to be able to not only supply faster quality product in those Europe and Middle East and Africa markets but to do it very cost-effectively.
And what we will be doing is scaling up in that factory and also improving our vertical integration including galvanizing in that factory.
So it will put us in a very good cost position but also a delivery position to be able to take care customer needs.
And just kind of going on that Rick obviously there has been significant impact from FX the current quarter kind of what you would be seeing here as we move forward and what are you guys kind of looking at in terms of expectations for the year? Well I think I would say the FX impact I would expect to continue at essentially the current rates and at least from a translation standpoint but -- and then from online standpoint it has a much smaller impact.
It’s a little bit more difficult to predict how that affects us to Rick’s point on from a competitive standpoint and the pricing standpoint.
But from a translation standpoint I would expect it to continue at similar rates.
And I would add to that we do hedge sometimes in large transactions if there are proceeds we will have hedge those we also hedge our balance sheet.
So we do have hedging activities where we believe there is a currency risk to the extent that we can and yet what you’re seeing obviously is the currency translation impact on our revenue on our income statement as you would expect.
And then one just last housekeeping from me.
Jim what are the interest rates on the new debt? So the interest rate on the new debt is 3.82%.
Your next question is from the line of Ryan Connors with Boenning &amp; Scattergood.
I had a couple of bigger picture items I wanted to get your take on Rick.
The first is just the technology side.
I mean there has been a lot of talk on this call about Elecsys and so forth.
But you’ve not been alone in terms of being active in technology.
I know your competitor there made a pretty significant acquisition in technology the bigger company like Trimble seems to be getting more involved in the irrigation technology side.
So I wondered if you could just talk to us about how that impacts the technology competitiveness of FieldNET and how much that part of the business is changing as it seems like there is a lot more product development going on there? Well certainly it has been changing Ryan.
We’ve seen competitors as you mentioned that were not in this business four five years ago or five years ago when we launched FieldNET that are now getting into the space and they are seeing opportunities to do some things here.
However I think we are in a very strong position.
FieldNET is still a leading product in many respects and we continue to invest in enhancing our FieldNET offering in many different ways.
So we have new products that are launching and new add-ons to the product that are certainly in development.
So we do think this is a very competitive space but I think it’s an important space because as we’ve talked about in the past the technology and the intelligence of the system is really important for the future in managing what happens with irrigation from an efficiency standpoint but also in applying chemicals and fertilizers and other things.
So this is the intelligence that moves the pivots from basically irrigation system or pipeline wheels to this intelligent machine in the field.
And that’s a space that we consider very important to us we’re aggressively going to participate in it.
Elecsys puts us into a much stronger position with the manufacturing capability but also development capability that it brings and we continue to look for other pieces from a technology standpoint that we would consider.
And we’re in a good position with the balance sheet that we have now also with this debt to have this cash available to make acquisitions whether they are defensive ones in terms of where we feel we have to do something to protect our technology position or whether they are offensive when we see something that we really think is interesting that we can build on.
But either way this is a very important part of our business today and going forward.
We also see this as a key piece in terms of the integration in some of our other technologies.
As I mentioned in some of the opening comments we’re in a unique position with our integrated system where we have pump systems we have filtration we have the engineering design and the front end plus we have FieldNET.
So we can deliver this fully integrated system which we intend to continue to enhance but also provide this kind of technology and integration into some of the adjoining markets rather than just agricultural irrigation.
Right.
Now in terms of – I know that at one time FieldNET system and similar technology was really largely utilized by the more sophisticated grower the larger grower.
Has that become a lot more mainstream in the last few years or still not the case but what’s your view there? I would say that I consider any grower who uses FieldNET to be a sophisticated grower.
That’s probably a different perspective.
I think it is becoming more mainstream.
I think we’re seeing the change in the customer base where there are definitely some of the next generation coming in as growers.
This fits very well into the trend of consolidation of farms whether it’s in the US or globally and as farms consolidate and they need to manage those farms with better technologies and products FieldNET is the direct fit for that.
So with FieldNET you can manage hundreds of pivots whether it’s in Russia or Africa or United States or wherever it happens to be and do it with less labor and be able to respond quicker to changes that need to – or either change that second place in the field or changes that you need to make.
So this is I believe a very important trend that ties into the consolidation of our farming -- of farms and ties into the advancement of other technologies that are used in farming today.
My other question Rick had to do with more of a niche area but small field pivots.
I know historically the seven-tower pivot has kind of been the dominant technology and it’s the 160 acres I guess as the rule of thumb in terms of the irrigation area there.
But I noticed recently it seems like there's a lot more focus on and I know you’ve got the Greenfield small field pivot lines competitors are also marketing these smaller field pivots.
Can you talk about kind of whether that's -- how that impacts the addressable market what the uptake rate has been on those small field pivots maybe even some rough quantification of what percentage of your business that is today and whether you think that can grow into something material over the next several years? I wouldn’t categorize any of this as major trend towards let’s say a small field pivot.
I would say that there has always been a market out there for small field pivots and some of them are in slightly different crops whether it’s for few crops or horses or different ranches and things but could be a number of areas where we continue to see those small fields and a market for small field pivots.
I would characterize it more as there is still a very growing opportunity out there in the small fields in general for an automated irrigation solution whether it’s a pivot or something else.
But there constantly is a search for another method of irrigating versus let’s say sprinkle or flooding those fields something that will improve water use efficiency and increase in yields.
We’re seeing currently it’s probably more of a trend towards lower cost per acre type systems where the trend has been – and I think it ties in a little bit to what’s happening with commodity prices it’s more to how do we get costs out of the system and provide a cheaper solution for irrigating the same amount of acres.
But there will continually be the search for a better solution for those smaller fields and there is a number of different ways to do it.
But we haven't really seen a major trend towards more small pivots for those small fields.
Your next question is from the line of Brian Drab from William Blair.
Hey I just wanted to talk a little bit more about pricing because as I'm looking at your report today and I'm looking at your primary competitors’ report for February mid-February.
The comments from them at the time was that pricing had not been significant to really any sort of issue on the irrigation type of business.
And when I look at your numbers today 11% operating margin in irrigation if I adjust for the acquisition expenses and take Elecsys into account it’s more like 12% but sequentially it suggests decremental margin of higher than your historical average closer to 40% decremental operating margin compared with roughly high 20s or low 30s that you’ve seen historically.
And my questions are around that maybe if you could give any color on the timing of price decreases in the market because it doesn’t make – if the price decline happened since mid-February it seemed like you’d be pretty dramatic double-digit decline in price since then and I am suspecting that's not really how it played out.
And I guess secondarily is there another factor – I know there are lot of moving parts here but is there another factor that would have had as significant impact on margins as price did? Well just for clarification and we will get Jim then put on this also.
Are you referring to an operating margin level irrigation in total correct? Yes.
I think one of factors that will play into this as you look at let’s say deleveraging or as you see volume come off is that we have more business entities international business entities out there now with some of an embedded let’s say fixed cost structure than we did say 3 to 5 years ago.
And obviously that means that the deleveraging is a little more challenging as the volume comes off.
We can see a little more event of an impact in terms of some degradation in terms of operating at this point.
Now as those businesses grow we have more opportunities to apply vertical integration to expand in terms of whether it’s tubing and galvanizing different things within those operations that will change that composition.
But as we’re growing and expanding those international markets we will see that that deleverage impact is a little different than it used to be.
So I wouldn’t attribute it all to price from that standpoint.
Rick can I ask – are we talking primarily about Lycos or other specific acquisitions that have changed the mix? I think yes it’s all of the above.
It’s the international -- opening up of the international operations which could have higher SG&amp;A run rates for example than say the irrigation business in total but also operations like Watertronics or Lycos and others that would have higher SG&amp;A run rate as well.
So that would change that composition sum from where we were five years ago.
All of those are important to the integrated system and to where we go from a growth standpoint and create additional growth opportunities.
But it does change the pictures a bit in terms of let’s say deleveraging effect.
I think Brian the only thing I would add is as to your specific question I don't think there's any other large factor that changed dramatically within the quarter that threw any of these numbers around a little bit but to Rick's point we also have a little bit of mix shift into some of the international businesses and some of those businesses that we've always noted have a little bit lower margins as well.
So that’s also playing in.
That's really helpful to understand that the mix has changed there is more fixed cost in the business in general and then more international of course but how about on pricing can you make any kind of – because this is still just really puzzling to me that – there’s basically two players in this market that account for 80% of the market.
One says pricing is not an issue the other one said it's a significant issue and the only thing that's changed is we’re 30 days beyond when the competitor made the comments.
Is there any way you could help to make a little more sense to that for everyone? I think that I’d describe it as pricing competitiveness the competitive intensity has increased and probably one of those situation that has increased even in the past 30 days to where we had been – we’re seeing it more in large projects today.
We see it in terms of as we are working with dealers some of the factors that they are facing in the market.
So I can't really answer why one company would say one thing but I can say that we hear this real time from our dealers that they believe competitive intensity has improved and as I said we’re going to do what we have to do to keep them competitive and we’ve seen this real time on projects that we’re going after.
I think that probably has more of an impact on some of the international markets now where we've seen there’s bigger project with competitive intensity increasing.
But I think -- I can't really explain why they would say what they did.
I can just tell you what we see as the facts.
And then steel historically has accounted for 35 or maybe I'll just broaden the range and take 30% to 40% of your cost of goods.
Have you commented yet on today's call as to whether given steel is down something like 20% year-to-date the calendar year to date if that will be a tailwind and how significant a tailwind that could be for you in terms of margins? This is Jim.
We have not – we haven’t commented but I would say we’re certainly seeing a little bit of improvement on steel in the last quarter or two versus the year ago steel prices aren’t dramatically different but we have seen some improvement and that has helped us a little bit.
We will have to see how it plays out but that has been a little bit of good news.
And then someone asked to Jim what the interest rate is.
Can you just tell us what interest expense is going to be for the next quarter and what a run rate would be? I think the number is about a little over $4 million annually so it’s like 2 million little over $2 million balance of the year.
The next question is from the line of Joe Mondillo with Sidoti.
My first question I just was wondering if you can comment on the inventory amongst your dealerships and how much have we sort of reduced and do we have a ways further or is it starting to sort of normalizing to demand yet? If you could just talk about that.
We don't typically have much --we really don't have any inventory out with dealers.
So our dealers are generally maybe would have a unit or two machine or two on hand or components for a couple of machines for let’s say a lock-in and type customers.
But unlike other ag equipment type businesses we really don't have a stock program of that type.
So our dealers are running pretty lean and most of the machines that we’re selling are basically configured to the specific order which is also what why we don’t have a lot of machines out there.
So that we don’t have that same issue that you would see in some of the other ag markets.
And in terms of your cost structure it seems like a bad timing I guess with the Turkey facility regarding some costs that are coming online even though long-term that should benefit you.
But I was just talking – I was just wondering in general in terms of your utilization amongst all your facilities how does that the utilization look and do you anticipate any cost-cutting initiatives going forward just considering the headwind of demand? Well in terms of utilization of facilities I would say that most of the facilities are probably in the I think maybe 50% to slightly more than that in terms of total utilization of the facility with additional capacity that can be added through additional shifts to their factories or other types of things and that’s a broad characterization of capacity at this point.
But I think in terms of overall reductions I would say that we made sizable reductions in domestic and international SG&amp;A some of them more recently that probably were not truly reflected in the financials yet.
And these reductions are offset in some cases by increases in infrastructure and some of our more growth oriented type businesses and including continuing to invest in technology.
Along with other things that you’re going to see in the income statement for example EPA reserve adjustments and the integration and acquisition expenses that you’ve seen in this quarter.
So there's some of those one-off type things that are definitely in there maybe some extent covering some of those changes that have been made.
But at the same time I would say based on what we see with the markets today we will continue to assess our SG&amp;A position and look for additional areas where it may make sense to cut.
At the same time we’re not going to deviate from the overall strategy or really turn the initiatives that we have in process that we think are critical for our future growth.
So at this time you have no plans to reduce headcount or maybe you’ve reduced hours worked to attempt to lower the cost base to the – No I wouldn’t say that at all I would say effective.
We’ve looked at our Lindsay factory.
We’ve continually made adjustments in headcount as we go along and that their productivity level in terms of what they are producing for the number of hours worked is high in fact probably higher than it was last year.
So they are running at a pretty good rate and in our future of our factories we will make adjustments as they go along in terms of what the outlook looks like and they are doing this on a regular basis and now we will continue to make adjustments.
My reference on that was more from an SG&amp;A standpoint and there too we will make adjustments as we feel we should as necessary.
And then in terms of some of these cost benefits from the Turkey facility from the Elecsys acquisition in terms of the integration of facilities is there any a point in time where you guys are going to provide us with the benefits from these initiatives? They seem like significant initiatives that you’ve highlighted not only in this call but in past calls and it’d be nice to be able to know how big of a benefit that they are for modeling purposes and to start analyzing profitable a company can be? I think we can provide some more clarity on some of these benefits as we go along and particularly I would say the Turkey facility in terms of the start-up of that operation was primarily to add additional capacity for international expansion and to reduce costs in total for delivery to specific markets.
And at some point we may be able to break that out further as we get up and running and are in full production on that facility.
In terms of the Elecsys piece there are a number of pieces to it which included the advancement of the technology as we talked about and the expansion of their business as well as the cost savings that we expected from integration of manufacturing facilities plus the quality and other benefits that we could see in our existing products and that I would characterize as probably in that million and a half plus kind of range that we would expect on an annualized basis once fully implemented.
But that’s only a piece of the basis on the justification for the Elecsys acquisition.
And then just lastly if you will in terms of the Turkey facility you mentioned in your prepared comments that it can – in the future you can use it as a platform for vertical integration.
What exactly did you mean by that? Well we are adding in now the galvanizing operation we may go further and add in tubing production in that facility at some point if we feel we need to.
I can say that we have plans to do pump stations in that facility.
We may be doing filtration systems that are from Lycos in that facility.
So there are many other products that we believe that we can build there that would be important for those markets and the facility was designed to be able to take that on in time.
So these are products that you already manufacture in the US or elsewhere that you’re going to be able to implement that into that facility? Yes it would be products plus manufacturing operations that we do in some factories but not initially in that factory.
So it would be the vertical integration of manufacturing operations plus products that we produce and other ones that we’ve produced there.
Your next question is from the line of Kevin Bennett with Sterne Agee.
Rick first off if we think in terms of volume in the irrigation segment can you talk about how the quarter progressed? I know it’s not the peak season but I mean is it getting worse or getting better or how should we think about that? I am not sure how to characterize that other than to say at the beginning of the quarter it started a little slow.
I would say and probably a little and has been kind of a lumpy start to the beginning – for the beginning of the quarter and beginning of the selling season for us where we saw order rates varying quite a bit.
But still wasn't that it was just a little bit lumpy and a little slower than what we expected in order to get – in terms of getting started.
But that’s about all I could really characterize it as I would say that orders have continued to flow pretty well once things that get started.
And then I know nobody’s crystal ball is perfect but you went through a few cycles in this business and I would love your thoughts how close do you think we’re getting to the trough this cycle? I mean what do you think it's going to take to finally stop seeing volumes go down 30% a quarter? I am not sure that I would have a expectation assuming volumes go down 30% a quarter.
I think that the key now is really what happens during this season as I see in terms of what’s planted and I have seen many different numbers in terms of planting expectations obviously corn planting is expected to be down and could be down quite considerably from last year in terms of the acreage planted.
So we could see an impact of that.
I've seen – and certainly it’s going to – weather will make a difference in terms of what happens with yields this year and I have seen all kinds of weather projections that would say weather similar to last year but yields expected to be a little lower.
So there is no crystal ball to this and I would say what we have seen in the recent cycles is it really only takes one or two major weather events to change the situation and reduce the ending stocks in corn and other commodities that we have.
I think there are some differences today where we have low oil prices which are both negative and positive when it comes to farming.
Certainly one of the positive impacts from an energy standpoint is it reduces farmers’ input costs.
So that’s beneficial to the return on investment for us.
We are seeing the strengthened dollars which obviously has some impact in terms of demand on exporting of commodities.
So that’s going to be a little bit of a headwind potentially in the very near-term but outside of that I don’t really have a crystal ball we’re just kind of prepared for where this is going to go.
I don't anticipate a significant change in the next year from what we’ve seen this year but a lot of it will depend on what happens with this growing season.
If I switch to the infrastructure business real quick can you help us understand the operating profit contribution from the Golden Gate project? I am just trying to get an apples to apples comparison versus recent quarters in that business.
Well we don't provide specific numbers relative to Golden Gate Bridge or any particular project just for competitive reasons.
But I think everybody is aware of the margins there are certainly much better in that – with those projects in that product line than they are with our other product lines and that's reflected in the quarter.
So I really wouldn't say much more than that.
I mean you can see from the increase in volume and the increase in margins that most of that is due to the Golden Gate Bridge itself.
So I think the improvement from that is pretty apparent.
Sure Jim.
I mean I guess if I look is the base business similar to the last couple of quarters is that the way to think about it? Well I think we’ve been making progress all long.
So I don't know particularly we wouldn’t look at last year as a good comparison point because we made some cost adjustment and we've seen good improvement in our overall road safety product sales both from a sales standpoint and a margin standpoint.
So I think looking at something a little bit more recent as a comparison point probably gives you a little bit better view and we have continued to see good progress in road safety sales in the current quarter and the margins in that business.
So it’s not an entirely Golden Gate Bridge.
And then last question from me if you Jim could provide the breakdown that you usually do between the dryland and the conversion in replacement of irrigation? I have that.
This is Rick.
I have that in front of me but the conversion for the quarter was 24% dryland 34% and replacement 41%.
Your next question is from the line of Chris Shaw with Monness Crespi &amp; Hardt.
Just give me the breakdown in what kind of the sales were for dryland acre conversion versus replacement and conversion from other types of irrigation? I think that's what I just did.
I just thought for a second I apologize.
No no that’s okay.
That’s all right.
But I will repeat it.
The conversion was 24% in the quarter; dryland 34%; replacement 41%.
And then also on the M&amp;A front I mean what are you guys seeing there – are there still lot of opportunities out there? I mean should we see something like another Elecsys coming soon or do you think it’s still digesting for a while and to look out there? When it comes to acquisitions and the M&amp;A front I would never say coming soon on anything just because it’s always so unpredictable.
I would say that we had an acquisition recently an acquisition candidate that we were pretty close on and pretty optimistic about.
However we ended up pulling away from it and backing off it brought with it some expense but it was definitely the right thing to do in this specific case.
So it’s always difficult to predict but I would say that the pipeline that we see is still very good.
We still have some good candidates and we’re out there aggressively looking for pieces that fit well.
I think we are finding some interesting ones that fit well with Elecsys in terms of the kinds of technologies that they have that can provide additional growth paths as well.
So I am optimistic but I would never say anything as really imminent or current but we are still in the pursuit.
Your next question is from the line of Craig Bit [ph] with CGS Securities.
I was hoping – just to give us a little bit more clarity on price.
Is it more mix or more straight prices was unclear to me? Well I think I have put this into the category of two things.
One is we've seen from a mix standpoint a change in our overall let’s say domestic average price of a few points in the quarter versus the same time last year that I would attribute as much to mix as to actual price adjustment because there is a change in the mix that’s taking place.
We do know that we’re seeing a competitive pricing pressure intensity increasing and what this can also mean is we’re seeing – given the lower price given that are taking a larger share of the market so we’re having to price at that level.
So it is a combination of both price and mix in terms of meeting that market need.
And you and your largest competitor didn’t have full feature sort of pivots who benefits that if there is a shift towards less fully featured? I don’t think that either one of us really benefits from this.
I think that it tends to be a third competitor in there who is on the lower price and to sometimes when the market contracts drives a little bit more of what’s happening from a pricing environment standpoint.
So it can potentially for both us and our largest competitor in this but it does mean that we're constantly as I am sure they are too looking for ways to reduce the costs – the cost per acre of irrigating [ph].
Are there different lower end competitors in Europe and are you seeing anything from China? Differently we have different low end competitors and you could identify at least one in every major market we serve in and that we participate in and there are generally different competitors.
In China we have a number of competitors there that weren’t there five years ago and become a more competitive market.
And there you’ve got some of the lower end competitors to the point of the machines are third quality where they may not make around in a circle before they fall.
They have some that have been around for few years and they are starting to get it right but on little lower end.
But yes there will always be those price competitors but I think there is a general acknowledgement in the industry that we have a superior machine in many respects and high quality machines as well as our major competitor also has a high quality machine.
There is a difference in the market in terms of the perception of that versus the low quality guys but there are times when it matters less.
Is trade price pressure on larger orders and more mix pressure on smaller purchase is it the right way to look at it? I think it’s a reasonable way it’s obviously not quite that specific but it’s a reasonable way to think about it.
And the price and mix issues are the same more or less US internationally or is it more pronounced in one of the other? I don’t know that I would characterize them the same.
I would say that the machines in many of the international markets tend to be smaller anyway.
So it’s a little different situation but it’s probably a similar – I would say more US situation in terms of the mix and the price issue that we’re talking about as well as large projects.
And then you were saying the pricing increased during the quarter and it’s not worsening now is that fair way to characterize it? Yes.
And what happens next quarter you will find out or see a way to look at backlog or to have comfort with where pricing might be six months from now – We have ways of monitoring what’s happening but I would just say that we don’t believe that the pricing situation is worsening and/or we have been – this was the comment that was made earlier we don’t believe that it is worsening.
We do monitor it constantly and it may show up first as an additional discounting that may be necessary with dealers in order to be able to meet the competitive price situation and we monitor it very closely.
End of Q&amp;A I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Rick Parod for closing remarks.
Well the global long-term drivers of water conservation population growth importance of biofuels and the need for safer more efficient transportation solutions remain very positive.
We're committed to creating shareholder value through investments in organic growth dividend increases strategic water related acquisitions share repurchases congruent with our capital allocation plan.
We thank you for your questions and participation in this call.
Thank you.
This will conclude today’s conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Kaila and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker's remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which reflect management's current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
With me on today's call is Jim Raabe Lindsay Corporation's Chief Financial Officer and Lori Zarkowski our Chief Accounting Officer.
Total revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2015 were $160.7 million 5% less than the same quarter last year.
U.S.
and international irrigation equipment revenues decreased in the quarter and were partially offset by substantial increases in infrastructure sales.
Operating margins decreased to 13.4% in the quarter compared to 14.8% in the same quarter last year.
Net earnings were $12.9 million or $1.10 per diluted share compared with $16.5 million or $1.28 per diluted share in the prior year quarter.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2015 total revenues were $436.6 million decreasing 7% from the same period last year.
Net earnings were $29.5 million or $2.46 per diluted share compared to $40.2 million or $3.11 per diluted share in the prior year.
Foreign currency exchange negatively affected year-to-date sales by approximately 3% and operating earnings by a little more than 2%.
For the irrigation segment in total sales were $131.3 million 12% lower than the same quarter last year.
Irrigation operating margins decreased to 15.1% of sales from 18.8% of sales due to competitive pricing pressure and deleveraging of fixed expenses on lower revenue.
In the U.S.
irrigation market revenues were $86.7 million for the third quarter decreasing 2% from the same period last year and declining 8% excluding the revenue from the newly acquired Elecsys Corporation.
The lower U.S.
irrigation equipment revenue is primarily resulting from approximately $4 million less of storm damage sales as compared to the same time last year.
While lower commodity prices and reduced farm income have dampened farmer sentiment regarding investments we're now at the end of the primary selling season for North America and the farmer’s attention is now on planting.
While planting in the U.S.
has been behind schedule in many counties due to wet weather we don’t believe this has had much impact on demand in the quarter.
While weather condition and the impact is difficult to predict there does not appear to be a current catalyst for sustainable corn price improvement at this time.
As a reminder the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 also included approximately $15 million or more of revenue related to storm damage which was unusually high and unlikely to recur this year.
In the international markets revenues for the third quarter were $44.6 million decreasing 27% over the same quarter last year with 10% revenue declined due to currency exchange and 10% revenue decline attributable to reductions in Europe reflecting similar cost additions as the U.S.
Most of the remaining decrease in international markets was in China where delinquent receivables of restricted sales opportunities.
While we have experienced softening in some of the more matured international markets due to lower commodity prices we remain optimistic regarding agricultural projects.
However we had experienced some increase in competitiveness on larger projects including from manufacturers outside the U.S.
given the rise in the dollar.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2015 total irrigation segment revenues decreased 14% to $354.3 million.
In the U.S.
irrigation market revenues were $219.1 million 16% lower than the prior year.
In the international market irrigation revenues were $135.2 million 12% lower than the prior year and declining approximately 5% excluding the foreign exchange impact.
Infrastructure segment revenues were $29.4 million in the quarter increasing 41% from the same quarter last year.
Road Zipper system and road safety product revenues continue to lead the year-over-year improvement.
The infrastructure segment generated operating income of $6.5 million in the quarter 22.1% of revenue on Road Zipper system sales remain project based and lumpy.
Road safety revenues are up 51% in the quarter reflecting increased market penetration and shared gain.
In addition gross margins have increased significantly on road safety products as a result of higher volumes and manufacturing efficiencies implemented.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2015 infrastructure revenues increased 46% to $82.3 million with operating margins of 19.5%.
Year-to-date road safety product revenues are up 44% with insignificantly increased gross margins.
For the total company gross profit in the third quarter was $46.4 million or 28.9% of sales versus $48.2 million or 28.4% of sales in the same quarter last year.
Gross margins in irrigation decreased by approximately one percentage points as compared to the same quarter last year.
A continuation of the competitive pricing environment and cost deleverage on lower sales had a negative impact on margins but were partially offset by lower steel cost and lower warranty cost.
Infrastructure gross margins increased by approximately 10 percentage points primarily due to an improved product mix of road safety products and Road Zipper system sales and leases.
Operating expenses in the third quarter increased to $24.9 million from $23 million in the prior year period.
Operating expenses increased $2.4 million due to the inclusion of the recently acquired Elecsys business plus 800 000 increase in health insurance claims offset by $1.3 million reduction in other discretionary expenses in the quarter.
Year-to-date SG&amp;A expenses have been reduced from 2014 levels by $2.6 million excluding the addition of Elecsys in 2015's impact of environmental expenses acquisition expenses and higher healthcare claims.
Additional savings are anticipated in the fourth quarter.
The order backlog of May 31 2015 was $53.2 million compared to $73.6 million at May 31 2014.
The May 31 2015 backlog includes $12.3 million of backlog for Elecsys Corporation.
Year-over-year irrigation backlog levels including -- excluding Elecsys have decreased reflecting the reduced demand from storm damage as compared to the same time last year and the change of agricultural market conditions as well as completion of some large projects.
Infrastructure backlog has also decreased due to completion of the Golden Gate Bridge project.
Overall backlog has returned to levels consistent with the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and 2012.
Our backlog typically represents some longer term irrigation and infrastructure projects as well as short lead time orders and therefore as I've indicated in the past backlog is generally not a good indication of future quarters' revenues.
Cash and cash equivalents were $154 million at the end of the quarter and were $28 million lower than the same time last year.
We’ve continued the execution of our capital allocation plan including the $120 million in cumulative stock repurchases through the end of the quarter under our $150 million repurchase authorization.
The strength of our balance sheet continues to position us for additional growth through acquisitions and other initiatives to drive improved returns for shareholders.
In summary we’ve now completed the irrigation equipment selling season in North America.
As anticipated irrigation equipment revenues have remained constructed due to reduced agricultural commodity prices affecting farmer's willingness to invest in capital equipment.
For irrigation equipment revenues declined year-over-year.
The declines were partially offset by significant improvement and growth in our infrastructure segment.
With favorable growing positions in the U.S.
so far this year it's difficult to see a near-term catalyst for improving irrigation equipment demand.
However we know from prior history that weather patterns and crop markets can change conditions quickly.
Our experienced Management Team has navigated through these cycles before and during cyclical trough periods such as this and we effectively cut cost where we can while at the same time maintaining the investments and implementing our key strategies and growth initiatives.
U.S.
irrigation markets have been most affected by the decline in the cycle and our Management Team at our factory in Lindsay Nebraska has reduced headcount by 25% over the last 12 months and 50% since the peak of the cycle in 2013.
At the same time they've continued to drive lean enhancements to improve the efficiency of the operations.
Now as we continue to navigate through this agricultural cycle I’d like to thank our exceptional dedicated employees who continue to demonstrate flexibility and adjusting to the changing market conditions through their willingness to do whatever is necessary to meet the needs of our customers and create value for our shareholders.
As we look forward into 2016 and beyond we will continue to monitor market conditions and identify areas to reduce cost and improve productivity.
At the same time we will also continue to invest in developing products and in geographic expansion and markets that we see as having the greatest potential for growth.
And as U.S.
regulators contemplate and implement changes in standards the road safety products we will make appropriate internal investments in our infrastructure product line as well.
Overall long-term trends remain positive as the need for increased agricultural production to meet the needs of the growing population will continue to drive irrigation equipment demand.
We're persistently enhancing our position to meet the challenges and to take advantages of the opportunities we see in the markets we serve.
I would now like to open it up for your questions.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Brian Drab from William Blair.
Good morning Rick.
Good morning Jim.
Good morning.
First question just on the infrastructure side the margins there 22% is really impressive and when I look back to historical results second quarter of 2011 you did 15% operating margin on about that same level of revenue and that was a period where I think you had about 50% of revenue coming from the Mexico City QMB project.
So can you talk a little bit about what enabled you to get to 22% margin? What's changed since then in that business and it seems like quite a bit of a mix was just your road safety or non QMB type product.
How do you explain a 22% margin or help us understand that? Thanks.
This is the time Brian we’ve had significant changes that have taken place in the infrastructure business including expense reductions cost reductions and improvements in our manufacturing processes.
And as you said there is also a mix difference from that time period through today.
And to put it into a little more perspective in the past quarter more than 50% of the revenue for the infrastructure business in the quarter was from road safety products with some good margins that are generated off of that product line.
So that’s a significant change that's taken place for the mix but at the same time we’ve benefited from the volume plus efficiency improvements and changes that have been made in the infrastructure expense and cost structure.
Okay thanks.
I guess if you’re able to sustain that level of revenue in the infrastructure segment but this isn’t when we shouldn’t be surprised if we can sustain operating margin of high teens or even low 20s going forward? Well I think the way I would characterize this is we’ve made some really good progress in terms of the cost structure and expense structure but in addition to that in gaining market penetration and market share with our road safety products.
So from that I would expect that we would continue that initiative.
At the same time we may have a little bit of a seasonal impact where this is the season to see some of the let’s say the leases on QMB which were not a major factor but are still a factor but also road safety products installed.
So there is a little bit of a seasonal impact but in addition I do believe that we’ve made some very significant progress.
Okay.
Thanks and then can you talk a little bit about the pricing environment in the Irrigation segment? It seems like pricing holding in pretty well given the margins that you’re achieving and what do you see going forward and I guess that its obviously the least interesting quarter seasonally? Of course we have discussed in previous quarters we definitely seen a change in the pricing from [them] [ph].
There is more competitiveness as the market contracted through this trough of the cycle and we’ve seen that continue through this past quarter.
At the same time we benefited some from lower steel cost which did help in terms of our cost of goods sold helped margin some.
We also as mentioned had little lower cost in expenses in warranty and other items but competitive pricing has continued and I believe we’re responding appropriately and well to those conditions.
Okay.
And then just a last one for me which regions were you seeing the most competition internationally? I don’t know that I could really split out international market specifically in terms of increased competitiveness I would say wherever we see larger projects which I would say we’ve seen a little bit more probably in Africa and Middle East recently.
We’ve seen increased competition which includes seeing some of our European competitors who have been a little more dormant in the past and we haven't really heard much from kind of re-emerging a bit.
So we’re starting to see more competition than we have had but overall there is not any one specific market that stands out that's increased competitiveness.
Okay great.
Thanks and congrats on the good results in the quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Schon Williams from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I just wanted to I wanted to be kind of I guess clear on the infrastructure demand how much of this do you feel in a significant upside in revenues how much do you feel is kind of the market actually perking up a bit and the demand environment versus kind of more the internally generated [worthy] [ph] factors better market penetration better share gains? It’s difficult to split that out into specific quantity Schon.
In that I would just say that we have seen a significant improvement in our road safety product sales.
Part of it is due to some things we’ve seen in the competitive environment meaning we were selling more in terms of our end terminals than we have in the past partially due to what I think some other competitor or competitors maybe going through.
But we have picked up market share and we have increased our market penetration meaning getting approved in more markets than we’ve been in the past.
So there is overall strategy to expand our road safety product sales that has been affected in doing that and with decent margins as well.
I guess would it be fair to call it demand environment I don’t know good would you call it robust? What are your just -- your general thoughts on kind of demand separate from your specific product expansion? Well given the lack of a long-term Highway Bill in place I would never call it robust at this stage.
I would probably say that it's definitely improved some from what we saw a couple of years ago but I would let's not call it robust.
You may categorize it as good but I still think that more of it is emphasis that we've placed on expanding that product line that it is really the specific market itself.
Okay.
And in what -- where do you hearing most recently just in terms of your contacts on the Highway Bills like there were some movements through the Senate here recently.
Just any general thoughts there would be helpful? Well we had a hard time predicting anything regarding the Highway Bill other than to say it’s a continual discussion and I’m optimistic we’ll still get one in place.
I have no really estimates in terms of timing of that.
I know that there is ongoing discussion of that as we speak.
Okay.
And maybe one more if I could could you just call out what was the contribution from Elecsys to your operating income and how much was kind of purchased accounting? How much was that a headwind in the quarter? This is Jim I would say that basically we’re still amortizing most of the purchase accounting cost and so it was from a fully loaded standpoint.
It was pretty close to breakeven.
We are excluding the purchase accounting adjustments since we’ve acquired and it was still in kind of the mid-teens margins.
So the margins have been good and the sales volume has been good.
We did finish some of the amortization like the inventory -- step up amortizations and those types of things in the quarter.
So I am not going to call out a specific number but we should start seeing more positive contributions from that going forward.
Just to be clear mid-teens operating margin is kind of excluding some of the purchase accounting.
That’s correct.
Okay thanks guys.
I’ll get back in queue.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Nathan Jones from Stifel.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Rick you alluded a little bit to increased sales of end terminals here and some issues that one of your competitors is having.
I think everybody knows usually its Trinity having that.
Are you able to quantify what you think the positive impact to you was from that? Well we don’t break out the specific sales by product category in our infrastructure business.
I would say that the majority of our road safety product increases are probably in end terminals but the product category itself has been -- the road safety product has been increasing overall but the largest percentage of increase is probably in the end terminals.
Okay.
And would you attribute the majority of that increase to the issues that Trinity are having? Well I wouldn’t go that far.
I would say that what we’ve learned as we’ve gone along is that we had opportunities to expand our market penetration and market share through working with additional states to get our product certified and accepted and we have done that.
And through that time we’ve seen the continual expansion of our road safety sales in general and primarily in our end terminals.
I won't attribute to what any specific competitors are going through but certainly it's had some factor.
And I think what I would add Nathan I think is I think our team has done a really good job and it’s already leading up to what occurred there in expanding our distribution as well as in some of the international markets as well.
So we're seeing some -- we've started to get some traction in some markets outside of the U.S.
as well.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Obviously their domestic irrigation segment had quite a bit improved comp this quarter.
If you kind of edge out the storm revenues from last year edge out the contribution from Elecsys you probably were down about 5% organically there.
Also several quarters of the cyclical downturn being in the 15% to 30% kind of range.
Given the annual nature of the business can you talk about what drove the improved comp there? The better sequential revenue that we haven’t seen in the third quarter for the last two or three years and just any color you can provide us on the relatively good result there? There is nothing really specific that comes to mind.
I would say that when you look at the results you’d see that most of the markets from a domestic standpoint behaved as we would have expected where we were down were primary still corn belts from a competitor standpoint.
There were a little bit of differences there and again that's also the area where we had more of the storm damage from last year as well.
I would say that we’ve seen let’s say more of a stabilizing of the markets in terms of the kind of impacts that we expected that throughout and towards the end of our selling season.
I think another factor to look at is in terms of the revenues through the quarters is really that's split out in our product sales on domestic machines in terms of what went into conversion dry land and replacement.
But we also saw really there more of a return to the more normalized third a third a third type levels.
Wasn’t quite that and we saw about 29% in conversion 33% in dry land and 38% in replacement.
And year-to-date the numbers are closer to a third with 30% in conversion and 32% dry land and 38% replacement.
So overall we’re seeing what I would consider to be more normalized stabilized conditions in the selling season that we’re just finished up.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Brett Wong from Piper Jaffray.
Hey guys thanks for taking my questions.
Just wanted to look into the infrastructure business a little bit more.
Rick you mentioned gaining more approvals in more markets than before as part of the benefit that you've realized here.
Can you talk to the strategy to continue to penetrate new markets that are there significantly more markets you can get into and what does that timing look like and how does that impact demand? Well I can’t really get too specific on that Brett.
I’d say that that’s an ongoing process and we have no list of the ones that we know that we have still to go in terms of getting approvals in certain product categories.
And we have a group that’s aggressively working that list to work through issues and we do find at times that while we’ll go through a process we may get a rejection in the first time.
We’ll be back again to have further discussion with the State DOT to understand what the reason is and it's usually there maybe some technicalities or technical issues in terms of some paper work that maybe submitted that has to get work through.
So it’s an ongoing process and I would say that there are more states.
We’re certainly not complete and we have certainly a continual list of the main states of let's say the larger states that we still think are opportunities.
And from that I’d say that we still have some good sized opportunities in front of us but we’re making really good progress.
Okay.
And just in terms of a visibility into the infrastructure segment when you do get approval in a State when you start to see demand in sales really ramp there? Well sometimes it will be immediate because they may have a need that may trigger the discussion for approval.
And sometimes it maybe never in terms of we could see that we get on to the list that not really seen or at least we haven’t seen that happen yet in a state.
But I would say more often than not it would be fairly short-term that we will begin to see the benefits of that.
We have had some where that need has specifically driven the discussion.
So therefore it was a fairly quick process.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And then just looking at your additional international side can you just talk to how the start-up of the Turkey facility is down when you mentioned last time that you’re trying to ship in April and then on top of how that’s moving.
When can we expect to see an improvement in the international irrigation margins coming from the Turkey operations? Well the Turkey facility is going very well in terms of it is up and running as we talked about last time and we have shipped units from that facility.
There is a portion of it that is not complete yet and we saw one building that is being constructed and the galvanizing operations is going to be opened up and that isn’t ready yet and there are little ways to go they've just really started construction recently.
Once we get to full production levels meaning the galvanizing facility up and demand that will drive more production through that facility we’ll really see the benefits of that.
So it's going to take a little while before we see that.
It could happen fairly quickly depending on what happens with maybe some specific projects that we’re working or it could take a little bit longer but it’s difficult to predict the timing but I will say that we won’t get the full benefit that we would expect until we have the into our galvanizing operation up and that's still probably I think maybe six months away before we’re at that point.
Excellent that’s perfect.
Thanks a lot for the color.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kevin Bennett from Sterne Agee.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
Rick first question on the international front can you talk about what you’re seeing in Brazil right now? Brazil is holding up pretty well.
We haven’t really seen a significant change.
We did see a little delay in some orders as they were going through discussions on Tsunami and modern infra in terms of the funding and projects.
Overall we’re still pretty positive about the situation in Brazil and orders that have held up pretty good like I said it was little bit of delay.
We do know that many of the funding projects are now being put into place that’s being the funding I believe it is under the modern infra program or the subsidy on the interest rate that is now changing the rates from a subsidized I think 4% interest rate to I think 7.5% now with the new program.
So that may have some impact in terms of demand for this next year with equipment buyers but it’s really too early to tell.
But in general I think Brazil is still good by the way that interest rate is lower for irrigation equipment than it is for other Ag equipment.
So it’s a bit of a very good rate.
It continues to be a very good rate for the growers.
But in addition I would say that the markets we still are very positive about we see a lot of growth opportunities in Brazil in general but it remains to be seen how they react to the new rates.
That’s helpful.
And then on the cost front in irrigation can you help quantify the impact of lower material cost and then the lower warranty expense and then secondly on that front I see headcount at Lindsay is down 25%.
Is that at a place you want it or is there more room to go there? Well this is Jim and relative to the margins overall as Rick said earlier I think the pricing has held up pretty well through the quarter and then the cost benefits that we had from this year still offset most of that.
If you remember last quarter we had about 3% total and we didn’t get much benefit from the steel cost but we are starting to get it now and that offset most of the pricing.
We did have some deleverage and we had a little bit of warranty adjustments on some of our warranty items that were out there which pretty much offset and those were relatively minor.
So it’s mainly the pricing and the steel cost that make up the netting of the kind of 1% down.
Okay.
And then two more quick ones first in the infrastructure business if we think about just the QMB sales can you help us if we look at the third quarter of '15 versus the third quarter of '14 were they up down the same? QMB revenues would have been up in the third quarter of '15 versus '14.
We’re not talking about very big numbers in total.
So I would hesitate to draw much conclusion from that other than to say it’s a little bit bigger and I think the difference in '15 would probably be more lease revenue and there wasn’t really a large QMB project in '15 or '14.
Okay.
Perfect and then lastly on the buyback you guys are getting towards the end of the $150 million.
Rick what are your thoughts of kind of re-upping that going forward given that your cash balance is still almost double kind of your targeted balance.
How should we think about that going forward? I think we as you mentioned we’re getting close to that authorization level and as we get to the end of that we will certainly revaluate and decide what we’ll do next but I’m not really going to speculate or comment on that now other than to say that’s definitely up for reassessment soon.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Rose from Wedbush Securities.
Good morning.
This is actually James calling in for David.
Okay.
Yeah.
Can you hear me? Yes yes good morning.
Yeah so my question on Irrigation margins I know you guys gave pretty good overview of different factors impacting margins but I wanted to see if you get actually that and may be talk about kind of the progress of your consolidation of your electronics manufacturing and any improvement in utilization and perhaps talk about kind of sustaining sort of those margins going forward.
Well I think in terms of the consolidation fees I would say that that consolidation is basically complete in terms of consolidating into the Elecsys operation now.
I am not really able to give you any specific number in terms of what that estimated savings is at this stage but I think we’ve commented in the past on what our estimate was on an annualized basis like $1.5 million from that consolidation which is still very much our expectations on target.
In the second part of the question I think it was more in terms of the margin sustainability question is that correct? Yes.
And may be if you could talk about project mix was there any shift there may be year-over-year or sequentially then have benefited or impacted your lines as well.
In terms of product mix within irrigation there was really not any significant mix shift that we saw.
I would say that in terms of sustainability on margins will depend on a couple of different things.
One is the competitive environment and we do know that competitive intensity is a little greater in these times as I said we're in the trough of a cycle.
So it will depend a little bit on what happens with our competition and we will do what we can and all aspects to maintain or gain share and that doesn’t mean our gaining share through pricing but we definitely will defend our position.
So from that standpoint it depends a little bit on the competitive environment and I’m optimistic that we’re in a very good sustainable position in the sense of our manufacturing efficiencies are lean implementation in our factories and other factors including we're fortunate that we’re seeing a low steel price environment today versus what we’ve seen in some other time period.
Okay and quickly on Elecsys' performance it seem like sales have grown organically although backlog seems to have improved.
Can you talk about for your expectations for growth opportunities and any cross selling opportunities in the near term and long term? Well we do see substantial growth opportunities for Elecsys longer term.
Short term our focus and emphasis has really been on the integration of our electronics into Elecsys and that’s been a primary focus.
We also know that there will be some challenges as say move forward in terms of some sales mix changes with Elecsys but we see additional growth opportunities in the current market they serve which include both oil and gas and irrigation and also in new markets with the utilization of their existing technology.
So we see opportunities to expand their core business in addition to the cost savings and what I consider to be some strategic advantages that we get through their capabilities added to our product lines.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Chris Shaw from Monness Crespi and Hardt.
How are you doing? Good morning.
Would you cite the breakout and you talked about replacement.
I know replacement includes both parts and placement from the subsidy.
Can you breakout and notably how much is parts actually for system? Well the replacement numbers that I referred to is open.
We don’t really breakout out our parts revenue in total as part of our revenue but this is a replacement in terms of whole good number.
So as we’re looking at the whole goods going out the door we split that out to best that we can based on the dealer's representation as far as what percentage went through conversion dry land or replacement.
All right.
Just an idea and how much -- there has been a lot of rain obviously throughout the corn belt and particularly some of the difficult high irrigation areas and perhaps for instance would that impact at all their usage of their I would think but also sort of their need for replacement parts throughout the season and investment revenue you should worry about or giving thoughts on that? Well the wet weather definitely impacts how much they will run the machine and also in some cases had an impact in terms of their starting up of machines which could delay some of that startup.
For example meaning that some of the parts replacements could come a little bit later in the cycle especially we'll see some parts going in after the spring startup but definitely there is a little bit of a delay.
It could impact parts requirements maybe at the end of the season or potentially into next season depending on how much they run but I wouldn’t say that I’m really concerned about that yet.
I would say that what we often see if there is a really wet spring as we've seen and sometimes there is a delay in terms of machines being installed.
And we really didn’t see that as having an impact in the quarter although I think there is probably still some machines that maybe sitting out there to get installed yet but overall I don’t really see that as a significant impact on parts business for the future.
You generally and you guys are obviously invested that you might know but have there been instances that summers were -- they got enough moisture out there that there wasn’t a need for a lot of farmers to even run their difficult summer or that's very very rare.
Well I can I haven’t seen that not in this region where they won’t run them.
I would see that still be a later startup because of the spring range or every some earlier summer rains but as summer progresses I haven’t seen a time where they haven’t needed them.
Great thanks a lot.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Peter van Roden from Spitfire Capital.
Hey guys.
Hello.
Good morning.
First question on North American business so excluding all the pros around Elecsys and the storm orders only being down 1% seems like a great result considering everything else in that Ad market.
Do you guys see domestic business dropping or is it too early to call that? Well I certainly wouldn’t call it at this point one way or the other.
I would say that if you follow some of the agricultural commodity analysts I think they would say that it’s very difficult to call at this point what is going to happen with corn prices.
I think there is some optimism in terms of corn prices being near a bottom or at a bottom but it’s certainly too soon to call and I don’t think there is anyone is position that could call that at this time.
Got it.
And then just on the detrimental margins in your business I guess there is a little bit of course than I would have thought and I think a lot of that has to do with the Elecsys position.
Do you know what margins or excluding Elecsys and I couldn’t figure I out on my own but if you could just provide the number now it would be easier.
Yes well I think this is Jim and I would just say to you if essentially the margin flow through kind of on a year-over-year basis in the quarter excluding Elecsys is about where we would think it would be as you said it’s a little bit higher on the decreasing volume but that is not almost entirely attributable to the Elecsys coming through on a kind of purchase accounting adjusted number it's pretty close to breakeven.
Okay.
Got it.
That’s all I have.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And there are no more questions at this time.
I hand the call back over to you sir.
The global long-term drivers of water conservation population growth importance of biofuels and the need for safer more efficient transportation solutions remain positive.
We're uniquely positioned for developing and delivering turnkey irrigation solutions for agriculture providing the best irrigation management and control technology offering a broad line of market-leading irrigation solution engineering integrated pumping and filtration solutions for landscape and industrial applications as well as providing energy absorbing safety solutions and quick change movable barrier that expands the capacity of existing road and bridge infrastructure.
We're committed to creating shareholder value through investments in organic growth dividend increases strategic water related acquisitions and share repurchases congruent with our capital allocation plan.
We thank you for your questions and participation in this call.
This is the end of today's call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Kimberly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lindsay Corporation Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker's remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] During this call management may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which reflect management's current beliefs and estimates of future economic circumstances industry conditions company performance and financial results.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations of the company and those statements preceded by followed by or including the words expectation outlook could may should or similar expressions.
For these statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rick Parod President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
With me on today's call is Jim Raabe Lindsay Corporation's Chief Financial Officer; and Lori Zarkowski our Chief Accounting Officer.
Total revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 were $123.5 million 16% less than the same quarter last year.
U.S.
and international irrigation equipment revenues decreased in the quarter and were partially offset by increases in infrastructure sales.
The company reported a net loss in the quarter of $3.2 million or $0.28 per diluted share compared with net earning of $11.3 million or $0.89 per diluted share in the prior year quarter.
During the quarter the company recorded a $5 million bad debt reserve on accounts receivable and reserve against deferred income tax assets of $2.9 million all related to our business unit in China.
In addition the effects of foreign exchange rates lowered our operating income by $800 000 and increased non-operating expenses by $1.2 million.
These items reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.70 in the quarter.
Total revenues for fiscal 2015 were $560.2 million decreasing 9% from the same period last year.
Net earnings were $26.3 million or $2.20 per diluted share compared to $51.5 million or $4 per diluted share in the prior year.
The full year effect of the items noted above plus acquisition and integration expenses and additional environmental accruals recorded earlier in the year reduced diluted earnings by $0.96 per share.
For the irrigation segment in total sales were $96.9 million 23% lower than the same quarter last year.
Irrigation operating margins decreased to 4.4% of sales from 14.9% of sales due to the additional expenses recorded for accounts receivable reserve and cost deleverage on lower sales.
In the U.S.
irrigation market revenues were $54.6 million in the fourth quarter decreasing 23% from the same period last year and declining 35% excluding the revenue from the newly acquired Elecsys Corporation.
I’d like to remind you that our fiscal fourth quarter is typically a low sales quarter for irrigation equipment in North American.
The quarter covering June to August is post-selling season for equipment in North America and is general after crops have been planted.
From time-to-time sales in the quarter will benefit from the need to replace equipment damaged by storms during the spring and early summer as we experienced in fiscal 2014 or by severe droughts where farmers need to install the equipment and are in a sense willing to start over as we experienced in fiscal 2012.
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 the lower U.S.
irrigation equipment revenue was a result of approximately $20 million less of storm damage-related sales this year as compared to the same time last year.
In addition overall lower commodity prices reduced farm income have affected farmer sentiment regarding capital good purchases.
The USDA is now projecting 2015 net farm income to be $58.3 billion dropping 36% from the prior year and declining nearly 53% from the record high set in 2013.
2015 net farm income is projected to be the lowest since 2006.
In the international irrigation markets revenues for the fourth quarter were $42.3 million decreasing 23% over the same quarter last year.
The revenue declined 13% due to foreign currency exchange rate changes with the remainder of the decrease primarily attributable to lower project revenues in the Middle East.
While the stronger U.S.
dollar is affecting our international revenue and global commodity prices have declined we continue to see international agricultural development continuing during this cyclical trough.
As we see today and as we have seen in previous trough periods there is a global recognition of the importance of irrigation and awareness of the benefit irrigation brings in stabilizing yields and agricultural production and in enhancing farm land values.
During trough periods as overall equipment revenues contract international and domestic project revenues become a larger percentage of sales further exacerbating the lumpiness of revenues.
However these projects lead to further development as the market recovers.
For the full year of fiscal 2015 total irrigation segment revenues decreased 16% to $451.2 million.
In the U.S.
irrigation revenues were $273.7 million 17% lower than the prior year.
In the international markets irrigation revenues were $177.5 million 15% lower than the prior year with slightly more than half of the decline attributable to foreign currency exchange rate changes.
The greatest foreign exchange impact was realized on revenue from our business unit in Brazil.
Operating margins for the total irrigation segment were 11.3% compared to 17% last year primarily due to the incremental bad debt expense and cost deleverage on lower sales.
Infrastructure segment revenues were $26.7 million in the quarter increasing 23% from the same quarter last year.
The increase was driven by continued growth in road safety product revenue sales of Barrier Transfer Machines and increases in Road Zipper System lease revenue.
The infrastructure segment generated operating income of $4 million in the quarter or 15% operating margin.
For the full year of fiscal 2015 infrastructure revenues increased 40% to excuse me $109 million with significant increases due to the Golden Gate Bridge project and 36% growth in road safety products.
The infrastructure business achieved previously set record revenue levels and set a new operating income record with operating margins increasing to 18% of revenue.
We believe fiscal 2016 can be another strong year for the infrastructure business.
However we do not currently have a Barrier project of the size of the Golden Gate Bridge project in backlog.
In addition we expect increased investment in testing and product development related to new mandated standards in road safety products and funding for a multiyear highway bill remain elusive and uncertain.
For the total company gross profit in the fourth quarter was $33.5 million with a gross margin of 27.1% of sales equal to the same time last year.
Gross margins in irrigation decreased less than 1 percentage point versus the same quarter last year with cost deleverage on lower sales partially offset by lower input cost primarily steel and zinc.
While overall irrigation equipment demand has declined from the peak of the cycle competitive pricing remains rational in most region.
In the infrastructure segment gross margins increased by approximately 2 percentage points primarily due to sales mix changes including increase sales of road safety products and Road Zipper products and leases.
Operating expenses in the fourth quarter increased to $30.7 million from $23.7 million in the prior year period.
Operating expenses increased $2.9 million due to the inclusion of the recently acquired Elecsys business and $3.9 million due to incremental bad debt expense as compared to the prior year fourth quarter.
SG&amp;A expenses increased a total $16 million in the fiscal year due to the addition of Elecsys and startup of Turkey operations the incremental accounts receivable reserve in China acquisition and integrated expense -- integration expenses and an incremental EPA expense accrual.
These increases were partially offset by reductions in discretionary expenses throughout the year resulting in a net increase in full year SG&amp;A expenses of $13 million.
The order backlog at August 31 2015 was $48 million compared to $79.6 million August 31 2014.
The August 31 2015 backlog includes $9.5 million of backlog for Elecsys Corporation while the prior year backlog included $12.7 million related to the Golden Gate Bridge project.
Year-over-year irrigation backlog levels excluding Elecsys have decreased reflecting the change in agricultural market conditions and completion of some larger projects.
Infrastructure backlog has also decreased due to the completion of the Golden Gate Bridge project and others.
Our backlog typically represents some long-term irrigation and infrastructure projects as well as short lead-time orders and therefore as I have indicated in the past backlog is generally not a good indication of future quarter revenues.
Cash and cash equivalents were $139 million at the end of the quarter and were approximately $33 million lower than the same time last year.
We’ve continued the execution of our capital allocation plan including $138 million in cumulative stock repurchases from January 2014 through August 2015.
With the addition of 100 million of repurchase authorization in July we now have $112 million of share repurchase authorization outstanding.
The strength of our balance sheet continues to position us for additional growth through acquisitions and other initiatives to drive improved returns for shareholders.
We have now completed the second full year of the cyclical downturn and those forecast call for continuation of soft agricultural equipment markets for the near term.
The equivalent pricing remains competitive but rational in both domestic and international market.
Lowest yield prices and effective cost management by our plants have helped to sustain selling margins in the face of difficult market conditions.
It’s been especially challenging couple of years for our operations in China as the market has contracted and competitive pressures increased from what are allegedly Chinese government sponsored competitors.
And we have experienced significant difficulty in collecting on sales to a specific customer.
These challenges have led us to record specific reserves and adjustments.
And in addition foreign currency rate changes have reduced overall international revenues by approximately $9 million and 14% versus the same quarter last year and $21 million and 9% for the year.
The domestic irrigation equipment market decline has had a large impact on our Lindsay Nebraska factory requiring across the board spending reductions and process improvements.
Our manufacturing team has done a very good job reducing headcounts and adjusting discretionary and fixed spending to mitigate the deleverage effects of lower volume.
Because of their efforts along with the efforts of our sales management team irrigation equipment gross margin have compressed by only 2 percentage points since the peak of the cycle two years ago.
Given the price competition and cost deleverage from lower sales it’s done a superb job in helping to maintain our gross margin.
With the addition of Elecsys this year we’ve improved our electronics manufacturing cost effectiveness quality and have added to our M2M capabilities which will enhance our solutions offering.
In infrastructure we’ve significantly improved profitability lowering our manufacturing cost while managing SG&amp;A expenses and increasing number of states where our road safety products are approved.
The road safety market is subject to government funding as well as potential changes in product standards.
However it’s a business that can continue to contribute to overall growth and profitability.
Finally we have persistently executed against our capital allocation plan increasing dividend repurchasing shares moving to a more optimal capital structure for improved return for shareholders and making strategic acquisition.
We remain committed to continued execution against this plan.
Now as fiscal 2015 has concluded I’d like to thank all of our employees for their hard work and dedication as we’ve navigated through a challenging cyclical downturn.
Expenses have been reduced positions eliminated certain projects deferred yet we’ve continued to build on our strategic advantages important initiatives and other -- and further honing our focus and strengthening our competitive result.
As we look forward to 2016 we still have work to do in leveraging some of our newer business units and increased profitability.
In addition we will have -- we will continue to monitor market conditions and identify areas to reduce cost and improve productivity.
We’ll continue to invest in developing solutions for our customers in the markets we serve and a geographic expansion in market having the greatest potentials for growth.
I would now like to open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Drab with William Blair.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
First on the irrigation segment I guess well total backlog for the company is down about 40% year-over-year I mean adjusting for Elecsys and Golden Gate Bridge.
But with the farm net income down 36% this year is it reasonable Rick at this point to assume that irrigation revenue will likely be down in fiscal ‘16 versus ‘15? I'm not going to comment in terms of giving any guidance really in terms of ‘16.
However I don't really see a significant difference in our current outlook for ‘16 than what we have seen for ‘15.
It's been difficult to predict where ‘15 was going to end up as we were coming into the fourth quarter really not knowing what this end of the selling season would look like.
I would say it's also going to be difficult to see what the spring period will look like until we get a little closer to it.
So at this point I really couldn't make a prediction.
I will say based on forecasts I've seen from other companies and -- overall our perspective on it is really not much different than what we saw in ‘15.
Okay.
Thanks.
And just shifting to infrastructure given the momentum that you are seeing in the highway business and what’s happening with the competitive landscape there.
Is it reasonable to assume that the infrastructure segment could report revenue growth since ‘16 even given the absence of the $13 million associated with the Golden Gate Bridge? Well the Golden Gate Bridge and any significant project like that certainly has a big impact in infrastructure revenues in total.
I would say that I would expect it to be a tough year for them to achieve the same kind of revenue in total without a major project falling in.
And at this point we don’t have a project in backlog of similar size.
So it could make it a pretty tough challenge to get to those kinds of revenues for ‘16.
It’s not out of the question.
It’s just it would be pretty difficult right now at this stage.
Okay.
When you look back at fiscal ‘14 in the second half of the year you’re doing $20 million in revenue $22 million in revenue per quarter.
Now we’ve seen a couple of quarters where you have $29 million in the third quarter ‘15 $27 million in the fourth quarter ‘15.
Is this back half of ‘15 in your mind probably pretty representative of the average run rate that we see going forward of course taking seasonality into account? But I would -- I guess I would expect some growth next year off of these back half of ‘15 levels? What I think there is definitely seasonality in the numbers that you are looking at in terms of the back half Brian.
But the other aspect to take into consideration is we’ve made some pretty significant progress our team has in getting the products approved in the states with higher volume.
Now there is still few states to get but we’ve made some very good progress there.
And you’ve seen that in the numbers.
So that represents a fair amount of the growth that we’ve seen in those numbers.
So there is probably not as much to get as what we’ve seen in terms of the progress over the last -- past year.
Okay.
And then can you talk Rick a little bit about why you're seeing such a significant step-up this year in the highway business and specifically I'm thinking about share gains that you've seen from Trinity? Some of it is definitely share gains from what our competitors have gone through.
Some of it is also a definite increased focus on concentrating on the states with the biggest opportunity and ones where we could get our products approved.
So those have been definitely the focus and direction from the infrastructure business and the road safety products team in total.
So we've made some superb progress there.
Are you still gaining share or is that -- should I think about that as a step function up this year that doesn’t have as -- doesn't really have impact next year? Is it still accelerating the business for share gains? Well I think I have described it as our strategy and overall intent to continue to gain share.
Okay.
And then just last China can you just talk a little bit more about what's going on there and can you remind me what percent of total revenue China accounts for and then can you comment on how much revenue is down in China in 2015 and you just talk about the competitive landscape and just how is it different now versus a couple years ago? Well I'd probably describe it as we had a very high percentage of market share four or five years ago as we were starting up and really ramping up in China.
And during that time period we've seen significant number of competitors appear probably 10 or 11 that were in that market primarily local Chinese competitors that have emerged.
So that's changed the competitive environment quite a bit in the last three years.
We've seen that change take place.
Also during that time period as I've indicated we had difficulty in collecting on accounts receivable with a specific customer which we have taken reserves in the past and taken additional now to restructure that.
But the Chinese environment is extremely competitive from a price standpoint and is still more government tenders than it is commercial market in terms of commercial -- other types of commercial customers.
But it is a changing market.
It's not one that we would say that we are certainly ready to exit in any way but it has certainly changed quite a bit in the last four years.
Percentage of total revenue that you do in China? We don't split out the total for competitive purposes.
There's nothing I can really say in terms of -- I would say that it's a relatively small percent of our total overall international sales.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Your next question is from the line of Nathan Jones with Stifel.
Good morning Rick Jim.
Good morning.
Wonder if I could just talk a little bit about SG&amp;A here.
I was looking back through the model and 2015 revenue is about the same as what it was in 2012.
And if you take out some of the one-time charges like the bad debt expense that’s in there in 2015 it looks like SG&amp;A is gone from somewhere around $75 million to a $100 million maybe core SG&amp;A is a bit less with Elecsys integration and things like that but it is still significantly higher.
We’ve heard lots of good things about the improvements you have made to manufacturing process and taking some headcount out there.
Why aren’t we more aggressively going after some of the SG&amp;A there? Maybe if you could give us some color there or why it is you need that additional SG&amp;A on the same kind of revenue base? Well I would say Nathan that there has been a little bit of a mix in the business change in the business than what we have.
Certainly a big part of that increase is the addition of Elecsys and the addition of LAKOS a few years ago and just generally the businesses that we have added in that time have higher G&amp;A rates relative to what our core business is.
So if you are comparing those two years a couple of things that come out.
When you look at the total revenue we have -- the revenue declines have been in our lower SG&amp;A businesses essentially our domestic irrigation pivot irrigation business for the increases in revenue have come in higher than the higher SG&amp;A businesses and that.
So part of it is mix.
We have taken costs out and we’ve taken a cost out in SG&amp;A in a number of places but we’ve also invested in some things as well.
We’ve obviously added the Turkey plant and we have added some sales resources in some of the international markets where we really see opportunities for growth and we’ve added costs in some of the product development areas in the water space as well as in things like FieldNET and continued to move those things forward.
So there is a little bit of a trade-off in the mix.
There is also a little bit of a trade-off in some cost reductions in some places with some additions in SG&amp;A costs where we think there is longer term growth opportunities.
So I think that’s mainly what you are seeing.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
So if we go back to 2012 you were running 12.5% of it of sales in SG&amp;A.
In 2015 you are 18% of sales in SG&amp;A without some of those 1x expenses.
What do you think longer term is the right level of SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales for the company? Well I think there was always going to be some variability because of the cyclicality in the business.
So I think what you are seeing a little bit right now is that we are in the lower where we are in the -- growers be at the low end of the cycle which is going to run the SG&amp;A higher.
And in those times we are going to continue to invest in where we think the growth can be as I have mentioned earlier.
Certainly SG&amp;A this year has run higher than it has historically.
Next year we are probably looking at an SG&amp;A rate on a full year basis in the -- maybe a 17% to 18% range.
But I think longer term it certainly will be lower than that.
But it will depend on where we are in the cycle in different times.
Yeah.
That’s fair enough on the positioning of the cycle.
I understand Rick you are hesitant to achieve the forecast revenue for 2016 as somebody who tries to forecast that and I know how difficult it is.
SG&amp;A the SG&amp;A line is something that is much more in your control.
So I’m wondering if you could provide some kind of forecast some kind of a range for us to work off for SG&amp;A dollars in 2016.
I think Jim’s commented on what the expected SG&amp;A rate potentially could be for this next year.
That’s probably about as closest we are going to get to a forecast for you on SG&amp;A at this time.
I will say that as I commented earlier we’ve exceedingly watch the market and we believe that where we are is near or at the bottom.
So we don’t expect any significant changes in terms of the revenue projection as I said.
However we are going to keep marching it and we will see what happens in the spring as we get back into close the selling season.
And if we need to make more SG&amp;A changes we will.
As Jim mentioned some of this structural with some of the new businesses we had and I also commented we have some work to do with some of our newer businesses and I think in terms of being able to leverage the profitability and the capabilities from those businesses.
All right guys.
That’s helpful.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Schon Williams with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Rick I was wondering just we already essentially kind of halfway through the year the next quarter.
I was wondering if you are willing to give any comments around kind of the trends you’ve seen so far in kind of September October of things any material improvement or declines? No I couldn’t really comment really on any specific trend other than to say there is nothing that’s caused me a great deal of caution or concern.
I have had some opportunities recently to speak to dealers in couple of markets and growers as well end users.
And I would say that the attitude is really not that pessimistic.
They are looking at it is okay this is the cycle.
We’ve been through these cycles before and we know where we are at.
And farmers do still really understand the significant benefit from irrigation.
I was talking to somebody just couple days ago who was commenting that in his acreage significant portion of it was irrigated and he had very consistent high yields in corn versus his non-irrigated acres even with heavy rains in the spring and really a significant rainfall even during the summer and really good weather just to really demonstrate the difference in irrigating.
So I think it’s well known.
Attitude is pretty positive in general.
I can’t say that I have anything that would be a factual to that I can point to and say will happen in this next season.
But I can say I’m not seeing anybody talking about this is boom or gloom or anything of that nature.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then when we last met you had add some I guess a little bit concerned about farm input prices cost to the farmer as we move into next year.
Are we seeing any -- a recent indication if some of those input prices that farmers seeing it release there or is that been fairly consistent? I haven’t really heard much about changes in those input costs for farmers as of yet.
I will say that even things that have been really in the last couple of days are indicating that there will be increased pressure for those input costs on those input costs for farmers come this morning as farmers are deciding what they are going to plant and as they are starting to plan any process.
So I think that pressure on the input costs will be there but I don’t think we’ve seen much change at this point.
But again this is really focused now on harvest.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then one more if I might.
You said that I guess industry is still fairly rational on the pricing perspective around irrigation.
Do you feel still comfortable that can hold or is there anything that’s changed there? I do feel pretty comfortable it will hold but I think it’s been -- we've seen pockets where there has been more intense competitive pressure probably more demonstrated by what a specific dealer or dealers will do in some regions.
But in general I would say it’s been pretty rational and I have no reason to believe it will continue that way unless there was some major significant change in the market which I don’t anticipate.
All right.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Tyler Etten with Piper Jaffray.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I was just wondering if you could talk about the mix and backlog.
If this lower backlog is due to mixing lower margin equipment or is just if you can expand on it little bit? Well we don’t specifically break out information on our backlog obviously for some competitive reasons.
I would also say that as I commented on regarding the fourth quarter.
In general the backlog is not very indicative of anything especially at this time of year considering that on the irrigation side that this is more harvest season.
So what we are going to get in terms of orders are usually more generated by what happens with the storms and things of that nature.
The previous year our backlog which had more storm damage particularly in the third quarter and probably a little bit in the fourth not much would have been storm damage generated and probably slightly better margin than what you would typically on a normal irrigation sales but not much difference at all.
And I think I would say that we just haven’t seen those farms in the spring or summer this year across most of farm country.
Got it.
Thanks.
My second question would be on the pretty infrastructure business.
When you are targeting new products -- excuse me projects are you looking for bigger projects maybe not the scale of the San Francisco project or you looking for multiple smaller projects to target? All of the above.
We are looking at the -- certainly we have had interest from customers in very large projects and we have interest in small projects.
We are targeting all of those.
So we may be doing projects that could be sub million dollars in some Road Zipper System type projects which are not very typical.
Most of them were bigger than that or we will have significant multimillion dollar projects in Road Zipper System projects.
We also have Road Zipper System leases where we will lease equipment for construction projects and it may be anywhere from a one year or that specific project one season to three to five-year type leases.
So we’re really targeting all of those because they see the unique nature of what that provides as a solution in terms of mitigating traffic and road safety and what a great solution is particularly for us like bridges in some areas where there is limited space.
So we are -- there isn’t any specific target we are looking at all of those areas.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Your next question is from the line of Joe Mondillo with Sidoti &amp; Co.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just want to clarify one question regarding the SG&amp;A questions earlier.
If you see similar revenues this in fiscal '16 to fiscal '15 could we see a similar SG&amp;A as a percent of sales? Well Joe like I said what we’re -- what I would say is that the 17% to 18% rate is I would think about for this year and then we have some -- we have some pluses and minuses to the numbers from last year.
Obviously there are some items that we would now expect to recur coming in but we also have some annualization of some things like Elecsys and those types of things that will also add to the numbers.
So I would just -- I think I would just say that 17% to 18% is the way I would think about it.
Okay.
In regard to the international market first off how much of the 23% decline how much was that of FX? The 23% there was a 13% decline in FX in the international irrigation business.
Okay.
So I guess in the back half of the year so you feel about a 10% decline in volumes? In the fourth quarter that is correct.
And as Rick noted that was primarily some projects’ revenue in the Middle East that we had last year.
Okay.
So regarding the international markets overall 10% decline in volume it could have been worse especially given what’s going on in those markets in terms of just slowing down.
In your prepared commentary you’re actually relatively positive I thought you’re saying that projects are still moving forward what are your sort of expectations going into this year? Are we seeing another down year this year? Could we potentially start to see more demand picking up throughout year or what are your -- what’s your sort of outlook given the international markets? So the way I would describe first the comments regarding the sales in the international markets in general is that there definitely is more of a project nature to it particularly when we see the markets contract a little bit and we’ve seen so we’ve seen more projects creates a little bit more volatility.
I don’t view what we saw in the fourth quarter is really an indication of anything specific other than obviously the FX impact.
It definitely is an indication of what’s taking place in some of what we will potentially be seeing which could also mean a little more competitive situation in some of the larger projects.
And as we talked about I think in the previous quarter we had seen a little bit of that but the projects are still taking place and we are still talking with the many customers in terms of development of -- agricultural development projects in many parts of the world.
So I am upbeat and optimistic about the potential of those projects.
I am probably cautious in terms of FX impacts and also in terms of what that may do given the strength of the dollar on some of those projects and if we may see more of our competitors emerging into stronger positions in a couple of cases.
The other side of that however is that we’re in a great position because of the turnkey solution capability that we offer as a company.
We are seeing that in the international markets in general that overall agricultural production excluding the projects is continuing pretty well.
And I would say that the international farmers are in a pretty good shape in terms of their input cost relative to the dollar right now.
So that’s not a bad position to be in either.
So I don’t really see any significant issue in the international market other than the concerns I would have with the China where we know we have some real challenges there from competitive standpoint.
And Russia and Ukraine which are not close to us but I would say definitely vulnerable in terms of being very difficult for to do business in the near term.
Okay.
And is there any sort of difference in your sort of outlook headed into fiscal '16 versus headed into fiscal '15? It’s not a great deal of difference.
I would say that the one difference is that coming into '15 it’s really uncertain what things are going to look like and where this was going to go.
And we’ve certainly got a much better look as we move through the year in terms of farmer’s sentiment and some other factors and obviously what happened in Russia in Ukraine had an impact on the year.
I would say that we’ve got more visibility coming into '16 in terms of what transitions look like given what we don’t know I mean what may happen in the next few months.
I always feel better when we get to spring we start to see what farmer’s sentiment is like at that point in North America and what their planting plans are and then we’ve got the most visibility at that time.
So probably February March performance really gets good visibility in North America but I would say the visibility what we’re seeing in the international markets as far as projects is still very good.
Okay.
Just lastly I was wondering if you have any opinion on sort of corn yields.
Last couple of years they have been extremely high yet stock to consumption ratios still relatively low on a historically basis.
How much of those yields based on weather and if weather teeters just a little bit how I guess sensitive into the market to sort of turning on a pricing standpoint just overall? This is a very difficult question to answer in any kind of the specific term other than to say whether it has a big impact.
And we’ve seen weather conditions the past year were pretty favorable to growing conditions.
It also varies by region in terms of -- and we’ll also talk about North America even in terms of the crops that they are growing.
So there is definitely volatility based on weather and climate conditions which is where irrigation really fits in as a strength.
So I couldn’t predict what this next year will look like or what this current harvest is going to look like based on what’s happened with weather conditions today.
I guess do you have any idea how good the weather was compared to last 10 years I mean or 20 years I mean was this just extremely ideal two year period or was there other elements involved as well that propped up those yields? Anecdotally and going out and talking to farmers they would describe it as very good weather years this past couple of years for crops which is why they have the yields that they had but there is lot of other factors that have come into play.
So for example Texas which had a drought a couple of years ago large part of Texas now is getting sufficient water and able to irrigate again where there were not able to irrigate for a while.
So there is a lot of factors that come into play but in general farmers would say these were really good years from a growing standpoint that were probably much better than they have seen in the previous four or five.
And I couldn’t tell you if that’s actually correct I am primarily talking about corn belts region.
All right.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Ryan Connors with Boenning &amp; Scattergood.
Great.
Thank you.
A couple of questions today.
One just had to do Rick with wondered if you could talk to us about how customers are financing their purchases of new products and whether you’re seeing any shifts there? I know some of the machinery companies are talking about lot more leasing and so forth and banks are reporting higher operating loans volumes on the farm side.
And just wondering whether you’re seeing any shift in your business area and if so how that might impact the outlook? We haven’t really seen any shifts Ryan in terms of the financing in general.
And in North America our estimates in the past had been roughly about one-third of the machines sold would be financed and so done through one of the financing companies that kind of specializes in that area and we would see UCC-1 filings on those -- that equipments that’s been sold which also allows us to look at of course competitive position.
So we typically see about a third finance that way.
What we saw during the peak of the cycle that we saw that drop down some I would say the farmers were probably buying more machines through cash and we’ve seen it probably closer now to the third again with some more in that range on a general basis.
It does vary by region but it’s somewhere in that range.
Got it.
So not a big ride okay.
Okay.
And then I was interested earlier you’re talking about the markets internationally that concern you And I thought interesting exclusion was you did not mention Brazil which obviously there has been a lot of macro concerning headlines there not necessarily related to agriculture but certainly one we think that would impact your business somehow.
So talk to us about that market? Our volume in business in Brazil has still been holding up fairly well.
I would say the biggest challenge we had in Brazil and when we look at our revenue from quarter to quarter has been in the change in currency valuation with the real.
That’s been the biggest impact.
But in general even if you take out the currency effect Brazil would have been up a bit in the fourth quarter versus the same time last year.
So in general I am still pretty optimistic about Brazil definitely long term short term we are going to see some volatility as we have in the past with the Brazil where every few years we will see it going through some economic issues and we will see some turmoil.
But in general I would say our business is still very solid there.
Okay.
Great.
And then I also had a question on Middle East.
Obviously you had a big project there last year a lot of these as you mentioned are big project-oriented international sales? I mean in the Middle East does the decline in sort of energy complex impact kind of the funding environment for any of that or is that completely unrelated to kind of the government finances? Well I wouldn’t call it unrelated.
I would say it’s a little unknown what impact that will have.
I say that where it potentially stretch beyond the Middle East.
So for example we’ve seen projects in Africa that maybe funded out of the Middle East that could be delayed due to what’s happen with energy prices however that’s really not known yet.
But we haven’t really seen a real direct impact of any type.
We see the same discussions taking place the same level of interest.
However I feel better as we see those projects actually coming to the point of closing and we can see the funding behind them.
But in general I would say I’m not specifically concerned about the Middle East in anyway.
There is still the significant amount of money and a great deal of interest in projects.
Got it.
Got it.
And then just one last one if I might you’ve talked about the ForEx headwind on a translation basis and I know you’ve opened plants internationally you mentioned Turkey.
Is there any true or what the magnitude of the true economic exposure that you still have in terms of having export in U.S.
dollars or is that pretty deminimis now? Well it’s not deminimis.
It’s -- I would say that in looking at our total international revenues we probably export out of the United States.
It’s still close to half of what we do in terms of international sales.
Okay.
In total to various region.
However that is shifting and it will definitely shift with greater ramp up of our factory in Turkey.
Got it.
Okay.
That’s all.
Very helpful.
Thanks for your time.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Kevin Bennett with Sterne Agee.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Rick following up on Ryan’s last question on currency I’m wondering if you could help us out in the next couple of quarters in terms of the translation impact going forward? You think it will be similar to the fourth quarter we just had or how do you see that playing out? So as we mentioned the translation effect in the fourth quarter and across the total business including infrastructure was about 14%.
When we look at the first half of fiscal ’16 just based on what we know today I would expect it will be similar to that but probably a little bit lower.
And then as you look at the back half of the year here again just based on what we see now and what we expect it will be probably more nominal.
So the next six months or so I think you’re going to see something similar but hopefully that diminishes in the second half of the year.
Got it.
Thank you Jim for that.
And then Rick if we go back to the margins in your irrigation business and kind of thinking about the gross margin level in terms of pricing seems to have stabilized a little bit and you’re getting a benefit from lower input cost? Do you feel confident that gross margin irrigation are troughing here or I mean how do you feel about that going forward? What build that gross margins in irrigation have stabilized to the conditions that we’re seeing today.
And as I’ve commented based on our indications or our projections of what we think will happen in ’16 we don’t see it significantly different.
I have no reason to believe that there should be deterioration in gross margins in irrigation from what we’ve seen in this past quarter.
So I think they’re holding up pretty well.
Unless something would have change where our competitors became extremely aggressive in an area of course we’ll defend our market share in where we need to but generally speaking I don’t see a change.
Okay.
So you don’t think they can actually potentially improve just given what’s happened with steel and zinc and what not? Yeah.
I think both are possible.
I think it’s possible we could see some additional improvement with steel and zinc depending on our commodity price changes.
And our purchasing in those -- with those major commodities and I also think it possible it could change the other way based on competitive issues.
Got you.
Okay.
Perfect.
And then in the infrastructure business you said something about you guys in 2016 are going to increase investment in testing? I was wondering if you could potentially quantify that and maybe give a little bit more color about what’s going on there? Well there are some new standards that are going into effect.
We refer to as MASH standard that will require some of the road safety products to meet a different standard level and we’ll call it better I would just say different.
And that will require in many cases for our products to at least be retested to see if they need those MASH standards.
In some cases it may require some product redesign or modifications.
So that’s the process that we’ll be taking placed.
And what we’re finding that some of the states will implement those standards faster than as required but they are selecting to potentially implement those standards.
So in terms of the costs that you guys -- I mean is it significant or is it something we should be thinking about or we won’t even see it show up? Well it may show up as we proceed with it.
But I think it’s something we can talk about in future quarters as we get into really understanding what testing needs to be required and what if any product modifications need to take place.
There isn’t much I can tell you about that estimated costs at this point until we get further along in the process.
Okay.
Perfect.
And then two more quick ones.
Number one you usually give the revenue breakdown in terms of dry land versus replacement.
I was wondering if you could provide that for the fourth quarter.
Yes I can.
I can say that the replacement piece of business was the largest in terms of our whole good shipped out the door 47% would have gone to replacement 25% into dry land applications and 27% in conversion from flood or gravity.
And this is for the domestic U.S.
market that we’re talking about.
I can also summarize this for you a bit and say that for the total year 39% of machines where replacement 31% dry land and 29% conversion.
So it’s much closer to that one-third in each category than what we saw during the drought period but that’s roughly the numbers.
Okay.
That’s perfect.
And then last question for me.
I see you made a small acquisition SPF Water Engineering.
Was wondering if you could provide some information about that and kind of the thinking behind it? Yeah.
It’s a great little engineering company up in Boise that has specialized in water engineering as the name implies and that includes everything from water rights to designer irrigation systems to the waste water type systems and many different types of applications.
But they have expanded our capability from an engineering standpoint in terms of large projects but also with a much bigger larger strength in water in general.
So we see them as a great addition to our engineering resource team.
It can be beneficial in many other large projects that we work.
Perfect.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of David Rose with Wedbush Securities.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
Rick maybe you can talk a little bit more about just if you are thinking again in terms of next year.
If I go through your commentary it suggest that you got a translation headwind for the first half on international irrigation.
You don’t see any fundamental drivers to improve the business.
And I think we’ve all pointed out that there arguably some drivers on the downside.
So doesn’t it seem logical that at least on the international sides that you’ve got a tough start at least for the first half of the year and you are likely going to be down.
And then with North American irrigation maybe flat there is kind of a downward bias in revenue number for next year.
Wouldn’t that be kind of the logic way to you think about this? So I think that’s a -- there is definitely a prospective on the story.
I think the other part of it is the things that we are doing to expand our business and increase share in many different ways including our project revenue that we’re working on with our key projects team that is going after large projects.
We have new product development taking place in each of our business units with new product plan for additional growth.
We’ve got market share gaining activities.
In each of our businesses and strategies that are being implemented there is many other factors to this other than just the market in itself as you’ve described it.
And I suppose if we just rode the market in that front that could be an outcome but that is not an outcome I would predict.
Okay.
That’s actually really helpful.
I appreciate it.
And then on the infrastructure margin side I had heard the number of a couple hundred basis points in investment.
On the infrastructure margin side you don’t have these Road Zipper any large projects.
And so I’m really kind of trying to think of any gross or anything were out with the midpoint of that infrastructure operating margin business is.
I mean are we thinking about mid-teens or is that even on the high end given how you start off very low in the first quarter.
And based on your commentary the 15% for the fourth quarter seems to be kind of the high water mark right now.
So how should we think about next year operating margins is that mid-teen 15% kind of a regional level from which to start? No I’m not going to provide a specific high note number but I think that certainly the 18% was a very very good year in the infrastructure business.
And as you mentioned we potentially add some incremental investments on the product development side and absent -- or I should say the QMB Road Zipper projects are certainly a key contributor to the margin in that business.
But we are continuing to work -- to look for projects and we are continuing to work on other areas of the business to kind of make up that margin.
But I think it’s certainly fair to say that 18 was a very favorable year and further could be some pullback in the margin this year if we don’t have other few QMB project.
So one other point I would add to that is that prior to this year where we were running with the infrastructure business which consist the number of pieces including the road safety project product and rail and all the others.
But generally most of the pieces were running in a 10% operating margin or better kind of level.
The Road Zipper piece of it was more volatile part because we are carrying expenses that do not offset of course if you didn’t have the projects.
Now we’ve reduce the breakeven level for the Road Zipper piece of business.
We built up more in terms of lease revenue with the Road Zipper piece of it.
And at the same time on the road safety products business the margins have improved through expansion of the business through additional revenue.
But also through process improvements that have taken place in our production processes and generally just the efficiencies in our factory.
So I think there is a number of enhancements that have taken place to both of those.
And again it has been a little bit volatile based on what happens with the Road Zipper projects potentially but the rest of the business have all improved.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then lastly Elecsys if you could provide us some performance metrics sales growth or decline operating income growth or decline year-over-year in the fourth quarter and how did it stack out versus your expectations? Well I’ll let Jim give you some of the more specific.
But anecdotally that acquisition has -- it is performing as expected if not better.
We have now integrated in our Digitec electronic operations into Elecsys and it did a superb job of taking care of the customers and getting that done efficiently.
That team is a great team down there.
That has a very good growth potential in terms of their business.
Now I’ll let Jim talk about some of the more specifics on Elecsys but I’ll say that it has met our expectations.
Okay.
Rick I’ll start out by saying this is probably the last quarter I’ll talk about specifics on Elecsys because we are now kind of getting into it being part of the core business.
But in the prior quarters they have talked about it basically being a kind of breakeven business with the purchase accounting with some of the purchase accounting amortization items are widening off.
But as Rick said from an operating standpoint with excluding those purchase adjustments the operating margins have been very good.
Just with the regard to the fourth quarter the operating margin even with purchase accounting adjustments are now approaching the 10% as some of those purchases accounting amortization items kind of wind off and the operating margin before purchase adjustments have been very strong.
So we’ve continued to see it progress as we expected and as some of the short-term amortization items wind off it’s definitely starting to contribute positively to the GAAP earnings as well.
And sales year-over-year up? Sales I don’t recall exactly where they were in the quarter but it was a very good sales quarter for them.
Okay.
Thank you Jim.
Your next question is from the line of Chris Shaw with Monness Crespi.
Yeah.
Good morning everyone.
If I can just go back to the irrigation pricing question I think just more curious what’s different I know in the past when you had lower steel and obviously a weaker demand environment pricing usually -- I guess there is more competition.
I mean have there been the players changed since last time it happened or is it everyone being much more rational is that simple? I missed the part of your comment but I think the answer to your question is the players have not changed.
It’s basically the same players.
Prior periods in trough situations I would say that players were not quiet as rational as what we’ve seen at this time.
So it’s definitely been more rational in terms of overall pricing than what we’ve seen in the previous crop conditions but the players are the same.
Are the players in better financial compared to the private guys in better financial shape is that inline? I don’t think that’s factored in this.
I think it’s more management.
Sometimes it becomes very difficult in a condition like this when the dealers are certainly trying to find any bit of revenue that they can in their regions.
They are pushing to the manufactures like us to make concessions and do things to try and generate revenue.
However there is not really a major share shift that’s taken place and stayed shifted based on price.
It really is through differentiation that that share shift really is sustainable when it does take place.
So I think that what we’ve seen over time is that the pressure could take place from dealers to do something and there had been some reactions and we’re seeing less of that now probably more of a realization of those are just short-term initiatives.
Terrific.
And then just switching over to infrastructure the Zipper systems I was reading an article that was suggesting that there was some Zipper system numbers could be absolutely constantly that they are going to use it anymore.
Is there a huge market for Zipper systems or do you take them back? I was just curious how that might work.
There is really not a huge market for the systems.
There are some cases where if they are coming off of an application which is really very very rare.
In fact I honestly can’t think of one I know of one that one or two that have been talked about a time in terms of about taking it off.
There have been cases where we have brought back in machine that’s been out in a number of years and sold it into another application or leased it into another application if in fact somebody wasn’t going to use that that’s a very rare situation.
But there is really not a huge market for the machines over the period I’m aware of.
Okay.
That’s it.
Thanks a lot.
We have now reached our allotted time for questions.
Mr.
Parod I’ll turn the call back to you for closing remarks.
The global long-term drivers of water conservation population growth importance of biofuels and the need for safer more efficient transportation solutions remain very positive.
We're uniquely positioned for developing and delivering turnkey solutions.
Our offerings include a broad line of market-leading irrigation solutions for agriculture providing the best irrigation management and control technology engineered integrated pumping and filtration solutions as well as providing energy absorbing road safety solutions and solutions for expanding the capacity of existing roads and bridges.
We're committed to creating shareholder value through investments in organic growth dividend increases strategic water-related acquisitions and share repurchases congruent with our capital allocation plan.
We would like to thank all of you for your questions and participation in this call.
This will conclude today’s conference.
You may now disconnect.