Good morning everyone and welcome to Lowe's Companies First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management's expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
Those risks are described in the company's earnings release and in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Also during this call management will be using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other information about them posted on Lowe's Investor Relations website under Corporate Information and Investor Documents.
Hosting today's conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock Chairman and CEO; Mr.
Rick Damron Executive Vice President of Store Operations; and Mr.
Bob Hull Executive Vice President and CFO.
I will now turn the program over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in Lowe's.
Following my remarks Rick Damron will review our operational performance and Bob Hull will review our financial results.
Our performance for the quarter did not meet our expectations.
Sales for the quarter declined 1.6% and comparable store sales declined 3.3%.
Comp average ticket was essentially flat in the first quarter while comp traffic declined 3.4%.
But we had solid gross margin improvement and delivered earnings per share within our guidance despite lower-than-expected sales.
I would like to thank our more than 234 000 employees for their hard work and dedication.
We faced tough comparisons in the first quarter as a result of last year's government stimulus programs such as Cash for Appliances and the Homebuyer Tax Credit as well as favorable weather conditions last year.
We knew the bar was high but we had a reasonable plan in place heading into the quarter and we executed against that plan.
In fact our performance was solid through about week 8 of the quarter and then we had -- and then we were impacted by the unseasonably cold wet weather in the Northeast North Central and Northwest regions of the U.S.
and the severe storms in the southern part of the country; in particular the unprecedented tornado season.
In fact the Lowe's store in Sanford North Carolina was struck by a tornado in mid-April.
Fortunately there were no customer or employee fatalities or injuries.
However the store sustained severe damage resulting in a need to demolish and rebuild the store.
Our thoughts are with the families impacted by the numerous tornadoes and widespread flooding throughout the country.
As we've done in the past when natural disasters strike Lowe's stores around the country as well as lowes.com became official donation sites for the American Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund with Lowe's also contributing $750 000 to the relief efforts.
Overall the economic recovery is continuing but uncertainty remains.
And consumer confidence sagged during the quarter in response to increasing concerns around inflation unrest in the Middle East and the impact of potential budget cuts at the federal state and local levels.
In fact U.S.
GDP growth slowed to 1.8% for the first quarter after a 3.1% rise in the fourth quarter.
More specifically with regard to home improvement spending the drivers were mixed.
Employment and disposable income are slowly improving while housing turnover is restrained and home prices continue to decline.
The implications for our business is that customers may feel better about their employment situation but are uneasy due to higher fuel clothing and food costs as well as geopolitical issues around the world.
In addition decreasing home prices and low housing turnover mean consumers remain cautious when it comes to big-ticket discretionary spending on their homes.
According to our first quarter consumer survey rising gas and energy prices are cited by homeowners as the top factor affecting future spending plans followed by the state of the overall economy and inflation in general.
While housing values remain a concern we did see positive trends in home improvement affinity and project plans in our survey which may suggest that homeowners are beginning to look for ways to enhance their homes.
That said our survey indicates that 84% of planned spending in the next 6 months will be small-ticket less than $500 and 43% of that planned spending will be discretionary.
As we shared with you previously our business has historically been 60% maintenance and 40% discretionary.
But during the downturn that mix shifted closer to 70% maintenance and 30% discretionary.
As consumers have focused increasingly on maintenance projects and as the cost of fuel has increased convenience of store location is playing a growing role in consumer's choice of where to shop.
Differentiation is key to combating this convenience factor in addition to our targeted store expansion strategy.
These 2 factors convenience and differentiation as well as the opportunity to close more sales are driving our transformation from a home improvement retailer to a home improvement company.
As we discussed at our analyst conference in November we are working diligently on our commitment to deliver better customer experiences while pulling together the best combination of possibilities support and value for customers wherever and whenever they choose to engage and we're building momentum behind this transformation in 2011.
Research assumed that there are 7 stages in home improvement spending: inspiration planning getting supplies getting started making progress finishing and enjoyment.
Each stage differs in length based on the type of project the customer's undertaking and the level of emotional engagement is generally higher in the beginning and ending stages than it is in the middle.
Traditionally our industry is focused on getting supplies where emotional engagement is relatively low.
Our focus for the future is on all 7 stages as we strive to provide customer with a better and differentiated experience.
As I said we're building momentum behind our transformation so let me give you some examples.
During the quarter our store employees began using a business community portal that puts them in touch with fellow employees throughout our chain.
Through this portal they are able to communicate with one another and offer solutions to the questions they encounter every day.
We also launched a tool on lowes.com that gives customers the ability to ask product-specific questions and receive answers from a variety of sources including Lowe's employees other customers and product vendors.
With these systems our employees can provide more in-depth advice in-store or wherever customers choose plus allowing customers to more easily complete their projects.
A little over a year ago we completed our lowes.com platform redesign and since that time we've been making incremental improvements fueling a 19% increase in traffic year-over-year and a 78% increase in online conversion rates.
We also saw a substantial increase in customer satisfaction according to third-party data.
We have over 170 000 items available online with significant expansions planned for the remainder of the year.
And also we plan to launch the Spanish version of lowes.com this summer in an effort to better resonate with this very important demographic.
We will also deliver further improvements in our multi-channeled presence this summer as we launch our first mobile app as well as foundational capabilities to support My Lowe's our customer-focused portal that will allow customers to more efficiently manage projects and improve their homes.
Finally we will roll out to repair services content -- concept to outdoor power equipment or OPE in the second quarter.
Having after-sales service for this product category is expected to increase our share position while positively affecting customer satisfaction resulting in incremental repeat customer visits and allowing us to minimize cost savings through lower OPE return rates.
This initiative will also increase our ability to identify product quality concerns that we can work with our vendors to resolve.
This transformation is about living up to our vision to provide the customer value solutions necessary to become the first choice in home improvement.
It's about bringing Lowe's to the consumer on their terms regardless of the physical store presence and making the experience relevant and personal.
Make no mistake this effort is as much about maintenance items and small projects as it is larger-ticket discretionary projects.
In the second quarter we expect to take advantage of the late seasonal opportunities as weather patterns improve and consumers are finally able to move outdoors and tackle traditional projects as well as repair damage caused by the harsh weather.
We continue to expect the second half of the year to be stronger than the first half given the challenging comparisons in the first half of last year as a result of government stimulus programs.
However stabilization of home prices and solid progress working through the inventory of distressed housing will be key milestones for recovery.
Thanks again for your interest and now I'll turn it over to Rick Damron to provide more details on the quarter.
Rick? Thanks Robert and good morning.
I will review our first quarter performance discuss the new programs under way to drive sales then update you on ways we continue to learn and improve.
As Robert mentioned we finished the first quarter with negative 3.3% comps.
Performance exceeded the company average in the Southeast South Central and desert Southwest regions of the country where temperatures and rainfall were close to normal.
On the other hand performance lagged the company average by over 200 basis points in the Northeast and North Central regions of the country where colder and winter conditions prevailed.
Looking at a detailed analysis of our indoor and outdoor performance specifically characterized by hundreds of product groups as indoor or outdoor comp store performance of our outdoor categories were essentially flat while our outdoor categories declined 9% for the quarter and 21% over the last 5 weeks of the quarter.
Some categories actually benefited from wet weather.
For instance rough plumbing performance benefited from strong sales of pumps and tanks and air filters.
There were some additional factors affecting category performance in the quarter.
On the positive side cabinets and countertops performed well driven by strong performance of our special-order kitchen cabinets.
Inflation drove high single-digit comps in rough electrical and helped paint to comp positively overcoming slow sales of exterior stains sealers and applicators.
On the negative side Millwork was impacted by the pull-forward of sales into 2010 from expiring energy tax credits.
Further as expected appliances were unable to overcome a very difficult comparison to the last year's Cash for Appliances program but achieved a 2-year comp of roughly 9%.
Installed sales generated low-single-digit comps driven by strong promotions in special-order kitchen cabinets improve special-order lead times in appliances and customers' continued enthusiastic response to STAINMASTER Carpet.
Not surprisingly our comp store performance was driven by April transactions not ticket.
Comparable store average ticket was essentially flat and was flat to positive in 12 of 21 domestic regions even though we were comping against the favorable impact to ticket of last year's Cash for Appliances program.
On the other hand comp transactions decreased 3.4% year-over-year increasing in February declining low single-digit in March and declining high single-digit in April.
The weakest April transaction comps occurred within the Northeast and North Central areas of the country.
Our ending first quarter inventory is 2.4% lower than first quarter of 2010 which as a reminder ended 9.8% higher than the first quarter of 2009.
Last year we attributed our higher inventory to optimistic purchases of appliances and flooring.
So if our inventory is lower than last year we had the right inventory to meet customer demand in the second quarter.
Further even though our first quarter sales of seasonal products struggled we have confidence in our ability to sell through these inventories in the second quarter and avoid significant markdowns.
As expected with negative comp performance our expenses deleveraged.
Bob will share more details regarding our overall expense performance but I'd like to point that we're able to partially offset other expense deleverage through operating salaries leverage while maintaining our strong customer service scores.
Although we hired aggressively for our weekend teams we adjusted hiring of seasonal and temporary employees to forecasted sales trends.
Now I'd like to discuss a few programs we undertook during the first quarter to close more sales and build ticket.
As mentioned on last quarter's call we streamlined the store management structure and implemented weekend teams to provide more customer-facing hours on the weekends.
And we adjusted our media mix to obtain better efficiency from each advertising dollar.
So I'd like to share with you some more details about these programs.
First we are pleased with the initial results of our weekend teams who provide additional customer-facing hours from Friday through Sunday.
We have filled more than 90% of our weekend positions.
Unlike our seasonal hires our weekend teams will remain in place throughout the year.
These teams have increased our weekend-to-date total selling hours by 150 basis points.
One indication of the effectiveness of this program is that our first quarter growth of comparable store sales and transactions on weekends were over 140 basis points higher than for weekdays.
Additionally we have received positive feedback from our stores that the weekend teams are enhancing the customer experience and providing the staffing flexibility needed to support weekend traffic and sales.
Next we realigned our media spend placing more emphasis in online media the same media that more of our customers are moving to.
Online media is also much more efficient as we can dramatically increase our media impressions per dollar versus print.
Additionally we shifted away from local to national radio where once again we can gain more impressions per dollar spent.
We also rolled out 3 programs that were not discussed on our fourth quarter call.
First we entered into a Gift Card Mall program with Blackhawk.
Blackhawk manages over 85% of the Gift Card Mall distribution in the U.S.
and we now have our cards available for purchase in grocery stores and other high-volume retail channels which will significantly increase our total gift card sales.
In addition Gift Card Malls will be in all of our stores beginning late in the second half of the year.
Second we introduced a tax refund card at the beginning of the first quarter.
This promotion coincided with the timing of many customers' tax refunds as cards were purchased from February 8 through March 14.
On March 18 10% of the original purchase amount was added to the card.
We wanted to give customers another reason to make their initial purchases at Lowe's and then return for additional purchases.
Customers and stores responded positively to these cards.
However we found that many of the cards were used on purchases that customers had already planned to make at Lowe's so the incremental sales from this program were not as significant as we had planned.
Third we launched a program at the end of April that provides Lowe's consumer credit cardholders with 5% off every day.
For purchases above $299 we continue to offer cardholders the option of no interest financing instead of the 5% discount.
You might wonder why we did this.
Over the past year we have experienced declines in our proprietary credit penetration the result of regulatory changes that preclude companies from offering no-payment promotions.
Those regulatory changes dramatically reduced the value proposition of our proprietary card.
Since our proprietary credit programs provide a lower cost of tender we evaluated a number of options to drive customers back to this program.
We had used credit promotions ranging from our everyday 6-month 0% interest offer to periodic use of 12-month and 18-month 0% interest offers for key promotional periods.
And last fall given consumer's increasing focus on maintenance projects we tested percent-off programs to determine whether we could drive greater proportion of smaller-ticket purchases.
After evaluating our test we concluded that a combination offer would enhance the card's value to customers by giving them another choice to make their purchases even more affordable every day.
Now I'd like to discuss with you a few ways in which our organization continues to learn and improve.
We have previously discussed our efforts to go local with our pricing using Base Price Optimization and patch area expansion and in market assorting using Integrated Planning and Execution or IP&amp;E.
We have fully implemented Base Price Optimization and patch area expansion; and IP&amp;E is being rolled out across all of our merchandise categories this year with the benefits coming in 2012 and beyond.
But there is another near-term effort to go local.
I believe we have an opportunity to unleash more the creativity and market-specific knowledge of our store personnel.
During our rapid growth over the past decade we needed more of a command-and-control approach to ensure our new stores represented the Lowe's brand.
As our growth has slowed the tenure of our store managers and associates has increased giving them greater experience and knowledge to make their stores better to serve their specific markets.
We will always have a centralized approach to ensuring consistent standards for merchandising store environment and customer service.
But I know we can maintain our high standards while also giving more latitude to our store teams to creatively address local market needs.
I call this flexibility within the framework.
Since assuming my role I often blog within our business portal community which is accessible for the entire Lowe's organization.
I encourage our store employees to share examples of what they have done within their own stores to better serve customers and to drive sales.
For instance we recently introduced a new paint tray coated with Teflon.
While priced higher than a traditional tray it makes clean-up easier and is more likely to be reused which ultimately is a better value for the customer and more environmentally friendly.
But despite strong messaging on the package customers were not able to see the value until one associate put a simple idea into action.
Take one tray pour paint in it let it dry and leave it for customers to see how easy it is to pull the paint right out the tray without washing or scrubbing.
This simple display worked so well that the employees shared the idea on our business community portal.
This display is now being used across most of the company and sales of these trays have improved.
Likewise on a larger scale we continue to measure and improve our merchandising programs and find ways to better serve customers.
One great example is our tools category.
We took a category that was losing share and had lower comps and overhauled the offering by introducing a channel exclusive in PORTER-CABLE handheld power tools.
We also expanded our offering of DEWALT and now offer the largest assortment in our channel.
We rationalized our offering at each price point adjusting our assortments based on significant differences in market preferences and we offered more innovative products.
Our tools category has gained unit and dollar share and we continue to drive more sales which has led to positive low-single-digit comps for the first quarter.
We have also improved the performance of ceramic tile flooring by increasing our offering in the warmer southern states expanding DEWALT tile assortments bringing the samples to the floor and making take with inventory for high-volume items more readily available for purchase.
Then to improve service and attachment rates we moved grouts mortars and sealers closer to the tile so customers can easily access everything needed for the job.
And like tools ceramic tile produced low-single-digit comps in the first quarter.
We continue to learn and improve across all facets of our day-to-day operations and we will continue to add company-wide tools and new processes to fulfill our promise to provide better customer experiences.
Thanks for your interest in Lowe's.
And I will now turn the call over to Bob Hull to review our first quarter financial results.
Bob? Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
Sales for the first quarter were $12.2 billion which represents a 1.6% decrease from last year's first quarter.
In Q1 total customer transactions decreased 2.1% while average ticket increased 0.5% to $62.51.
Comp sales were negative 3.3% for the quarter which is below our guidance of essentially flat.
For the quarter comp transactions decreased 3.4% and comp average ticket increased 0.1%.
Looking at monthly credits comps were positive 2.7% in February negative 1.9% in March and negative 8.3% in April.
The monthly comp trends reflect the difficult comparisons we had versus last year's positive 8.8% April comp which was driven by both favorable weather and government stimulus.
Q1 was our most difficult comparison to last year due to the impact of Cash for Appliances.
In Q1 2010 Cash for Appliances aided comps by 65 basis points.
We knew this going into the quarter and felt that we had a reasonable plan in place.
In fact we were ahead of our sales plan through our fiscal week 8.
Then as Rick described unseasonable weather over the last 5 weeks of the quarter had a significant impact on our exterior categories which represent about 40% of our sales for that 5-week period and was the primary driver of our below-plan sales for the quarter.
With regard to product categories the categories that performed above average in the first quarter include rough electrical rough plumbing cabinets and countertops tools lighting paint flooring home fashion storage and cleaning hardware and fashion plumbing.
Seasonal living performed at approximately the overall corporate average.
Gross margin for the quarter -- for the first quarter was 35.44% of sales and increased 26 basis points over last year's first quarter.
The increase was driven by 34 basis points of margin rate improvement with Base Price Optimization and patch area expansion accounting for approximately 25 basis points of the margin rate improvement.
Additionally gross margin benefited 28 basis points from the mix of items sold the result of strong sales in rough plumbing as well as lower sales in outdoor power equipment and appliances.
These improvements were partially offset by deleverage and distribution expenses primarily the result of increased fuel costs and higher inventory shrink.
SG&amp;A for Q1 was 25.6% of sales which deleveraged 62 basis points.
The largest driver of the SG&amp;A deleverage was insurance both casualty and employee was deleveraged 32 basis points.
The increase in casualty was weighted to a favorable actuarial adjustment in last year's first quarter.
The deleverage in employee insurance led to increased claim costs and higher dependent enrollment.
We also experienced approximately 15 basis points of deleverage related to investments made to improve customer experiences expenses related to staffing up our contact center to support the insourcing of appliance repairs last year and contract labor for additional lowes.com capabilities advancing the My Lowe's concept and continued efforts to build out our customer relationship platform.
In addition advertising expense deleveraged approximately 10 basis points largely due to the timing of spend versus last year.
Lastly while only about 5 basis points each deleverage for the following items is worth noting: delivery due to higher fuel costs; payroll taxes related to higher state unemployment tax rates; bankcard due to higher interchange rates; and proprietary credit associated with lower sales as a result of a lower receivable related to the provision against no-payment promotions.
Somewhat offsetting these items was leverage and bonus expense.
We fell short of our sales and earnings plan for the quarter and as a result we reduced our expected bonus payout amounts accordingly.
Depreciation for the quarter was $371 million which was 3.05% of sales and leveraged 15 basis points compared to last year's first quarter due to slower square-footage growth and assets becoming fully depreciated.
Earnings before interest and taxes decreased 21 basis points to 6.79% of sales.
Interest expense at $88 million for the quarter deleveraged 6 basis points to last year as a percentage of sales.
For the quarter total expenses were 29.3% of sales and deleveraged 53 basis points.
Pretax earnings for the quarter were 6.07% of sales.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 37.7% versus 37.8% for Q1 last year.
Earnings per share of $0.34 for the quarter were at the bottom end of our guidance of $0.34 to $0.38 and were flat to last year's $0.34.
Now to a few items on the balance sheet starting with assets.
Cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of the quarter was $1.5 billion.
Our first quarter inventory balance of $9.7 billion decreased $238 million or 2.4% from Q1 last year.
The decrease was due to a 5.6% decrease in comp store inventory offset by square-footage growth of 1.6% and a slight increase in distribution inventory.
Inventory turnover calculated by taking a trailing 4 quarters cost of sales divided by average inventory for the last 5 quarters was 3.5% a decrease of 6 basis points from Q1 2010.
Return on assets determined using a trailing 4 quarters earnings divided by average assets for the last 5 quarters increased 44 basis points to 5.63%.
Moving to the liability section of the balance sheet.
Accounts payable of $6.7 billion represents a 5% decrease from Q1 last year.
The decrease in accounts payable is higher than our 2.4% decrease in inventory which relates to the timing of purchases in the quarter versus last year.
Our debt to equity ratio was 37.7% compared to 31.9% for Q1 last year.
At the end of the first quarter we suggested debt to EBITDAR was 1.72 which is higher than our target of 1.8x.
Return on invested capital measured using a trailing 4 quarters earnings plus tax adjusted interest divided by average debt and equity for the last 5 quarters increased 75 basis points for the quarter to 8.91%.
Now looking at the statement of cash flows.
Cash flow from operations was $2.4 billion which is $313 million lower than Q1 2010 due to the timing of income tax payments versus last year and the decrease in accounts payable related to the timing of purchases.
Cash used and profit acquired was $313 million up $30 million over last year due to an increase in information technology spending on lowes.com store infrastructure and the ongoing buildout of our customer relationship platform.
As a result first quarter free cash flow of $2.1 billion was down 14% versus last year.
During the quarter we repurchased 37.9 million shares at an average price of $26.42 for a total repurchased amount of $1 billion.
We have $1.4 billion remaining share repurchase authorization.
The remaining $31 million of the $1.013 billion of share repurchase -- of repurchase of common stock shown in the statement of cash flows relates to shares repurchased from employees to satisfy either the exercised price of stock options or the statutory withholding tax liability upon investing our restricted stock forwards.
Looking ahead I'd like to address several of the items detailed in Lowe's business outlook.
We expect second quarter total sales to increase approximately 4% which will incorporate some comp sales increase of approximately 2% and square footage growth of approximately 1.5%.
As we noted our Q1 sales shortfall was driven by poor seasonal sales as a result of weather.
In the second quarter as the weather has improved so have our sales.
In fact sales trends for the beginning of May are much better than April which gives us confidence in our Q2 sales outlook.
Depreciation for Q2 is expected to be approximately $370 million and leverage about 30 basis points to last year's second quarter.
Earnings before interest and taxes for the second quarter are expected to increase 20 to 30 basis points to last year as a percentage of sales.
For the quarter interest expense is expected to be approximately $90 million.
The income tax rate is forecasted to be 37.6% for the quarter.
We expect earnings per share of $0.65 to $0.69 which represents an increase of 12% to 19% over last year's $0.58.
In 2011 we expect to open approximately 25 stores resulting in an increase in square footage of approximately 1.3%.
We're estimating 2011 comp sales to be flat to positive 1% and including the 53rd week a total sales increase of approximately 4%.
For the fiscal year we're anticipating EBIT to increase by approximately 10 basis points.
For 2011 depreciation expense is expected to be $1.47 billion and interest expense is expected to be approximately $350 million.
For the year we expect the effective tax rate to be 37.6%.
Some of these inputs should yield earnings per share of $1.56 to $1.64 which represents an increase of 10% to 15% over 2010.
We have tempered our outlook for the second half and for the year due to the uncertainty the impact of gas prices and overall inflation will have on consumer spending.
In addition the correction in housing continues to play up and there is the potential that home price declines extend into 2012.
For the year we are forecasting cash flows from operations to be approximately $4.6 billion.
Our capital expenditures for 2011 are forecasted to be approximately $1.8 billion with roughly $100 million funded by operating leases resulting in cash capital expenditures of approximately $1.7 billion.
As a result we are forecasting free cash flow of $2.9 billion for the year.
Our guidance assumes approximately $2.4 billion in share repurchases for 2011.
We repurchased $1 billion in Q1 with a remaining $1.4 billion expected to be spread evenly across the next 3 quarters.
Regina we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
First can you perhaps give some quantification of what you're talking about in May? Are you comping within that 2% to 3% range that you're guiding for the second quarter? And then big picture on sales you talked about the second half being better than the first half.
You seem to be looking to maybe 1.5% comps in the back half of this year.
A is that reasonable? And then b on the margin side it's hard to get into your range unless you assume that gross margin is down so perhaps some color there as well.
Sure Chris.
This is Bob Hull.
First our outlook for the second quarter was approximately 2% comps.
I think you mentioned 2% to 3%.
We don't normally provide updates the start to quarter based on how poor our April sales trends were.
As I said in my comments we are performing much better than April.
In fact we're performing much -- we're performing better than we did in first quarter and we are confident in our Q2 outlook.
We did miss some seasonal sales in Q1.
We expect to recover some of those in Q2 which leads to our 2% comp outlook for the second quarter.
As it relates to margin we are expecting some nominal margin decline in the back half of the year.
Some of that comes from fuel costs.
Fuel was up early in the year still is up relative to last year.
We'll see that as it sells through cost of goods negatively impacting gross margin Q2 and into the back half of the year.
In addition our shrink rate was up slightly by 10 basis points.
In the first quarter we expected it to be up roughly 5 basis points for the rest of the year which is contributing to the decline in margin for the year.
And then as a follow-up on the 5% off card are you anticipating any margin rate pressure as a result of this program? Chris this is Bob again.
Based on how the 5% off is accounted for it will contribute to some gross margin rate pressure.
The promotional financing hits SG&amp;A as a tender cost so there will be some flip between the margin pressure and expense benefit between the 2.
It should be -- however because of the tender shift from bank card to proprietary credit it should be accretive to EBIT for the year.
Our next question comes from the line of John Zolidis with the Buckingham Research Group.
Inc.</strong> Can you quantify on how appliances did in the quarter and what the outlook is for the comps for appliances in -- going forward? And then secondly can you just talk about why shrink is rising and why the outlook for shrink to continue to rise is out there? Sure John.
As Rick talked about in his comments appliances had roughly a 9% 2-year comp so we were down roughly 6% Q1 this year on top of a 16% positive comp Q1 last year.
We had strong appliance comps in Q2 last year so we expect a decline as well with it being somewhat flat in the back half of year.
As it relates to the second part of your question regarding shrink we really don't have any concerns as it relates to inventory shrink.
Our shrink is -- was at historically low levels in 2010.
Some of the increase in shrink as a percent of sales was really based on the comp decline in Q1.
And again we'll have a nominal increase in shrink as a percent of sales in the back half of the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Nagel with Oppenheimer.
First question if I could.
Any commentary on market share trends for the quarter? Clearly as you indicated throughout the prepared remarks sales were impacted by weather.
But maybe some of the data you look at -- any indications on market share? Brian this is Robert Niblock.
If you look at overall -- also in the TraQline numbers that we're out there on a rolling-4-quarters basis.
We did see kind of slight improvement in our market share on a rolling-4-quarters basis so -- and that equal to anybody else out there in the industry.
So we don't really think there were any declines in market share.
And as you are aware TraQline only relates to retail sales.
It does not impact or does not track commercial sales.
But we think the biggest impact is as Bob and Rick described during the quarter was primarily weather-related conditions.
And then secondly we are starting to see in our consumer survey that consumers are mentioning the impact of fuel prices starting to impact their purchase decisions.
And when we think about discretionary income and the fact that when fuel prices go up it does limit their ability to spend on discretionary basis part of that is what we've taken into account as we've looked at over the balance of the year.
And I think Bob also alluded in his comments that as we look over the balance of the year with what's going on with housing with fuel prices those types of things you're starting to hear some of the economists talk about potentially the bottoming in home prices extending beyond the second half of the year and potentially into the first half of 2012.
So overall from a market-share standpoint we think we're executing well and continue to maintain and gain share in a lot of categories.
But it's really more macro things rather than the impact that we saw in the quarter plus weather.
Okay.
It's very helpful.
And if I could just -- one follow-up.
Looking at the guidance for 2011 specifically the changes you made to the guidance -- and some of the prior questions kind of asked this too but I'm going to give a little more clarity.
So now you're assuming what 10 basis points of improvement in your EBIT margin versus the prior estimate of 30.
How is the split -- just looking at that variable in your guidance how is the -- how should we think about the split between gross margin and then SG&amp;A margin? Brian so really the decrease in the comp estimate for Q2 in the back half of the year means less fixed cost leverage so we expect both gross margin and SG&amp;A to be down slightly offset by depreciation leverage which gets us to the roughly 10-basis-point decline in EBIT for the year.
Okay.
So just to be clear the change in EBIT guidance you gave us today reflects solely the change in sales guidance? Largely yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with ISI.
Great.
First I want to get to the SG&amp;A a little bit more.
Bob you mentioned that bonuses helped you leveraging.
Could you just give us a bigger number on that or just quantify that and that last 5 because it was over 50 bps in the fourth quarter.
I want to see what the run rate is there.
Yes.
It's 28 basis points in the first quarter.
Great.
And then going forward is that a run rate for the next 2 quarters or is that a -- it bounces around just based on sales? It moves around based on sales and level performance.
Last year leverage was about 10 basis points in Q2 and roughly 20 for the year.
Okay.
Great.
And then in terms of what we're trying to estimate just to make sure we have it clear because there was such a big shift last year when April was up 8 8 and May was flat.
When you say it's a lot better is better as much as just the 2-year comparison would suggest or is it that we're building back to that sort of level? Again Greg we don't provide commentary in the beginning of the quarter normally.
We only did so because of the severe downturn in the month of April.
I wanted to allay any fears that that level of performance was continuing into May.
Our trends are running better than we did for both April and Q1 which gives us confidence that as the weather improves we'll be able to recapture some of the lost seasonal business in Q1 and achieve our 2% comp outlook for the quarter.
I can't blame you for trying.
And then just lastly on the 5% program it sounds like this program is really more about getting credit penetration back up and building loyalty as opposed to just simply driving sales given that net-net you think it's a slight benefit to EBIT.
Am I missing something here? I think that's right Greg.
We already had a value proposition in place which was no-interest financing.
Previously it was no interest no payments.
Government regulations decreased the value that the customer saw in that.
The 5% is really just to give the customer a choice.
They can choose the 5% they can choose 6 12 or 18 months no interest depending upon what we're running at that point in time.
So it is an opportunity to get more of those consumable purchases on the proprietary credit to affect a tender shift and to increase the value proposition of the proprietary program.
That's great.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Binder with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Just following up on that 5% off program.
Can you give us a little bit more of a sort of a profile on that program? In other words is it affecting primarily larger-ticket more frequent customers or is it something that lower-ticket customers are taking advantage of as well? Dan it's a little bit all of the above.
As we said it initially was designed to try to garner some of those smaller repair and maintenance purchases those convenience purchases.
We are seeing the customer even above $299 take advantage of the 5% off.
Again it's their choice.
We're giving them that option.
What we are seeing Dan is a little bit different customer.
We are seeing a little bit higher FICO score coming into the program which tells us we are seeing some shift from bank card.
So we're pleased to see that as part of the design listed and in fact have that tender shift so -- but customers are using it for small purchases and large purchases.
Inc.</strong> So is it accretive simply because...
To add one other point to what Bob was just saying this idea's really a longer-term customer relationship program.
You heard Bob Robert and Rick talk about working on that customer relationship management platform.
This is just a key piece of that over a long period of time.
Inc.</strong> So is the accretion that you get a combination of the cost of the tender type plus some sort of SG&amp;A leverage on the incremental sales? Or is it strictly on the switch in the tender type? It's both.
So incremental sales will drive some improvement and then the shift in tender will help as well.
Inc.</strong> And I know it's early but in your tests what kind of a sales lift did you get with those customers? In the test we saw sufficient application lift sales lift and tender transfer to roll it out last month.
Inc.</strong> Okay and then just my final question was regarding guidance.
It seems like your lower comp guidance on the year essentially is what you lost in Q1.
And it seems you probably lost close to one point.
So if you missed the midpoint by $0.02 -- I guess I'm just trying to understand why the midpoint is coming down $0.06 on the year since most of the pressure seems to have fallen in Q1.
We just take basically Q3 and Q4 down 0.5% or so comp estimate which is driving the EPS decline.
So just assume basically 2% comp for quarters 2 3 and 4.
Our next question comes from the line of Gary Balter with Crédit Suisse.
Just following up on some of the questions.
If -- you have for the second half of the year price optimization still kicking in and how do you account for that within the gross margin guidance that you just gave us?  Because that would seem like that would be a positive.
Gary so this is Bob.
We started rolling out Base Price Optimization.
Q2 of last year got some benefit in Q2 last year and then started seeing roughly 25 basis points Q3 running forward to Base Price Optimization and patch area expansion combined.
So we'll cycle against that in Q3 this year.
We do expect some benefit this quarter as we cycle against last year's implementation.
We'll continue to refine it and it should be additive.
And greater proportion of private label should be additive to gross margin for the balance of the year.
However we do have the fuel negative impact I mentioned some modest shrink impact and then just kind of the unknown what takes place with inflation which is why we're somewhat cautious on our margin outlook.
Okay.
And I have a second follow-up.
But just before saying that I've been in your stores a lot on weekends and you could see the service.
So you've done a great job in that shift to add the Friday Saturday Sunday help.
They're all over you when you go in and that's when the stores are crowded so good job on that.
Just one follow-up.
If we take your buyback the $1.4 billion that you talked about for the next 3 quarters and you take your guidance on top line and margins we get to a number that's slightly above your range.
What are we doing wrong? That's a wide-open question Gary.
I'm not sure what your model looks like.
I...
Well we got to $1.66 billion just taking your sales guidance.
I don't know what you got in there.
I've provided you all the pieces in the outlook.
We can certainly have you follow up with Investor Relations after the call.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lasser with UBS.
I'm wondering how the conversion rate trended over the quarter.
I understand that -- or was there any fallout from the shift to more staffing towards the weekend that might have seen an impact during the week? I'm sorry Mike.
You're saying conversion shift.
What...
No the overall conversion rate.
Your comp transactions were down 3.4%.
Was that -- do you believe that that was the same rate that your traffic was down for the quarter? Yes.
I think Bob gave the numbers that are on comp traffic.
Did you say traffic was down 3.4% and ticket was up 0.1% to come to the 3.3% negative comp.
So let me ask it another way.
Do you think that there was any negative fallout from the change in the staffing model? No we don't.
The big thing with the staffing model was to put more customer-facing hours on the weekend with the customer traffic and the sales dictated they were there.
Keep in mind when we made that shift to the weekend hours that was funded by a management structure change not that we moved hours from the weekdays to the weekends.
Those hours are still stable and still would reflect last year's numbers.
The weekend hours and weekend teams were incremental to that base hours based on that management restructure.
Oh okay.
That makes a lot of sense.
Quick follow-up question.
On the 5% off offer what have you factored in for a competitive response to that within your assumption for the financial impact? Michael we've -- take a look at all potential competitive responses from a variety of offerings.
So we try to understand what the marketplace looks like but at the end of the day we try to run our game plan and deliver on our outlook that we just provided.
Sounds good.
Best of luck.
Your next question comes from the line of Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I guess my first question is it sounds like comps are still negative so why are you expecting such a snap-back in the balance of the quarter? Is it just pent-up demand on the seasonal side or is there something else that we should be thinking of? Scott this is Robert Niblock.
The biggest impact as we said during the quarter we thought was the unseasonable weather that took place over many parts of the country primarily in April.
As I said in my comments I think until like week 8 we were running with -- in line -- ahead of our plan.
Bob took you through the comp trends for the month and we've actually seen for the first 2 weeks of May we've seen seasonal categories bounce back very strong where we've had -- which were where the biggest shortfall was.
In Q1 seasonal categories bounced back very strong as weather improved in May.
This weekend was a little bit of a challenge when you look at the weather across the country.
But we see the weather improve not only just the fact of improved weather but also the opportunity to pick up some of those sales that were delayed from the first quarter into the second quarter.
It feels it leads us to being comfortable with the guidance that we've provided today.
And we think we've been sufficiently conservative in that guidance to take into account the impact of fuel prices and everything else that is impacting the customers' mindset today so -- and we've put a lot of rigor into coming up with the outlook and believe that it's achievable based on what we see out there and what we've seen quarter-to-date in the performance as we particularly if we look at where that performance is coming from.
LLC</strong> All right.
That's helpful.
And then I guess the second question is related to -- home prices is referenced a couple of times but obviously we have weather and maybe gas as a bigger near-term impact.
But I guess the questions are what are your assumptions for home prices in the second half? And if we do get kind of a double-dip on home prices what kind of risk does that present going forward? Scott this is Greg Bridgeford.
I think we've seen -- some economists say we've already seen the double-dip in home prices and so you have economists today who were forecasting home prices to begin stabilization in the fourth quarter of 2011 now beginning to stretch that stabilization period into 2012.
The risk that we're trying to monitor is really the impact of foreclosure sales in the marketplace today and how that's impacting market by market the stabilization of home values.
So we're definitely being conservative when we try to understand what will happen to home prices on a regional and a market basis across all the areas that we operate in.
But there are some mitigating factors out there.
Robert touched on it earlier.
There's -- all of our affinity scores when we do our own customer sentiment research are coming in as significantly higher than we've seen over the past couple of years.
And these are affinity statements such as "I enjoy conducting home improvement projects." "I'm willing to spend more and invest in home improvement time and money." We're seeing some pretty interesting strong upsurges in all of the affinity areas.
So if you look at -- if you break apart your University of Michigan consumer sentiment research that Rick just released the difference between current situation and expectations is beginning to create 2 different -- an interesting vector.
And I think that's what we're trying to understand is the consumer seems poised given certain macro-economic factors to be able to invest time and money into home improvement as we move into the second half of the year and into the beginning of 2012.
Obviously the #1 thing on their mind and we're hearing this from both outside research and from our own consumer sentiment surveying is gas prices.
It can affect as much as 2/3 of homeowners in terms of their willingness to spend and that's where they're going to be watching their budget.
The other factor of course is the factor of is my home value increasing or decreasing?  Is my local housing situation improving or not improving?  And we're seeing pretty strong sentiment today on current situation that most people feel their home values and their local market are not improving.
So those are the 2 watch outs but we're also keeping an eye on the fact that from a standpoint of affinity with home improvement we're seeing scores we haven't seen in years.
Your final question comes from the line of Dennis McGill  with Zelman.
I think you mentioned in the Southeast South Central and Southwest where you had better weather it was better-than-average comps for the quarter.
Can you put that in absolute terms just to understand the order of magnitude where weather wasn't too big of an issue? What we can tell you Dennis is that the -- for the exterior categories in the Northeast and North Central they were down roughly 19% for the quarter.
So that was really driving most of the impact.
As Rick described the categories that performed better were 200 to 300 basis points better so closer towards where we're confirmed for the overall company average for the quarter.
Okay.
On the seasonal items I think you said -- the way you broke it out the outdoor was 40% of the business for the 5 weeks where it was most impacted.
Can you give us that same number for the first quarter and then what it would typically be in the second quarter? Yes.
So that number is closer to I think 37% 38% for the -- excuse me it's 34% for the first quarter.
It's probably 35% to 38% for the second quarter.
And one other thing I'll mentioned regarding the second quarter is we did have a strong April last year which means our season categories performed really well last year which means our season categories struggled in Q2 last year with nursery being our worst-performing category at a minus 6% along with outdoor power equipment and seasonal living also being negative which is why we think we can have improved performance in Q2 this year.
Okay.
That's helpful.
As always thanks for your continued interest in Lowe's.
We look forward to speaking with you again when we report our second quarter results on August 15.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Lowe's Companies Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management's expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
Those risks are described in the company's earnings release and its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Also during this call management will be using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other information about them posted on Lowe's Investor Relations website under Corporate Information and Investor Documents.
Hosting today's conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock Chairman President and CEO; Mr.
Bob Gfeller Executive Vice President of Merchandising; and Mr.
Bob Hull Executive Vice President and CFO.
I will now turn the program over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in Lowe's.
Following my remarks Bob Gfeller will review our operational performance and Bob Hull will review our financial results.
But first let me share a summary of our second quarter performance as well as how we're thinking about our near-term and long-term opportunities.
Despite some recovery from the first quarter in our seasonal business our performance for the quarter fell short of our expectations.
Sales for the quarter increased 1.3% while comparable store sales were essentially flat to last year.
Comp traffic increased 0.6% in the second quarter and comp average ticket declined 0.9%.
Bob Gfeller will provide more details regarding our comp performance in a few minutes.
Gross margin contracted 37 basis points in the quarter.
Our 5% off everyday offer for Lowe's consumer credit card holders impacted gross margin by 11 basis points.
However the gross margin impact of this offer was more than offset by leverage in tender and other costs associated with our proprietary credit program which are components of SG&amp;A.
Bob Hull will provide more detail regarding gross margin in a few minutes.
We had good operating expense control in the quarter.
However as detailed in today's release we recognized a charge associated with impairment of long-lived assets including 7 stores that closed on August 14 which reduced pretax earnings for the quarter by $83 million and diluted earnings per share by $0.04.
We generated substantial operating cash flow during the quarter which allowed us to repurchase 59.7 million shares or $1.4 billion exhausting our share repurchase authorization.
Including the impairment charge we delivered earnings per share of $0.64 in the second quarter.
Our second quarter consumer survey indicates that high fuel prices remain at the top of consumers' minds as they consider future spending plans.
However recent headlines regarding slowing growth and the U.S.
credit rating downgrade underscored the continued weakness in the U.S.
economy.
The volume of negative news and the unsettling impact on equity markets is having a significant effect on already fragile consumer mindset.
More specifically with regard to home improvement spending consumers continue to focus on small ticket less than $500 repair and maintenance items and projects.
Even after taking into account the challenge of the macro environment we're still not pleased with our performance this year.
For both do-it-yourself and commercial business customers we must drive more trips close more sales and build bigger baskets.
So what are we doing about it? Earlier this year I restructured the executive team and together we are looking at our business with a fresh perspective.
We have critically evaluated our performance over the past several quarters and have identified some gaps.
The gaps are in addition to convenience of store location which we discussed in our first quarter earnings call.
We have plans in place to address the gaps we've identified but we also know that there is no silver bullet and it's going to take time to see the full benefit of these changes.
Bob Gfeller will discuss several of our near-term plans to compete more effectively in the current environment.
He will also outline ways in which we will go to market differently beginning in the second half of this year.
We also remain focused on cost-efficient and effective operations.
The management team is reviewing how we operate on a cross-functional basis to ensure consistent and connected execution while also evaluating our organizational structure to streamline decision-making and ensuring that we have the right people in the right roles throughout the organization.
We're making tough decisions in order to improve profitability and I'm confident that the team is focused on the right areas and making the necessary decisions within the parameters of our longer-term strategy.
Today's announcement regarding the closing of 7 stores is an example.
Closing underperforming stores is always a tough decision given the impact on hard-working employees and the local communities.
But it was a fiscally responsible decision to further strengthen our financial position and drive shareholder value.
Those are some of the near-term opportunities we're addressing.
We previously shared with you our longer-term commitment to deliver better customer experiences while pulling together the best combination of possibility support and value whenever and wherever customers choose to engage.
We continue to differentiate Lowe's from the competition and we're building momentum behind our transformation in 2011.
Let me share some of the progress we've made this quarter.
We completed the rollout of our repair services concept.
We now manage the repair experience for outdoor power equipment as well as appliances.
Our contact center is taking the calls diagnosing the problems and facilitating the resolutions making after-sales service simpler for customers because they're dealing directly with us rather than the manufacturer.
We tested this model in more than 100 stores and found that managing the experience ourselves positively affected customer satisfaction which drove incremental store visits.
In addition we expect to realize cost savings through lower product return rates and the identification of quality concerns that we'll work with our vendors to resolve.
We continue to be excited about the performance of lowes.com.
In fact we experienced a 130-basis points increase in online unit share on a rolling 4 quarters basis.
We've also generated significant amount of interest with our social media campaigns.
According to third-party data we've ranked fourth among the top 25 brands and have the most online buzz and positive sentiment.
At the end of the second quarter we had over 190 000 items available online a 73% increase since the fall of 2010 with significant expansion planned for the remainder of the year.
We've also recently begun shipping items to customers from service stores and regional distribution centers in addition to our dedicated Internet warehouse.
This means with more items available for partial shipment than ever before we can provide faster delivery and reduce our cost to fill orders.
We're also offering for the first time preprinted labels for partial returns free of charge a simple and convenient option for customers and a competitive advantage in the home improvement industry and there's more.
We are launching the Spanish version of lowes.com this week in an effort to better resonate with this very important demographic.
This launch is a full translation of our lowes.com site including commerce.
You will also see our first mobile app in market in the coming weeks.
Additionally we will build on the fundamental capabilities that were delivered on lowes.com this quarter such as the ability to create lists and reminders as we develop My Lowe's a set of capabilities that will revolutionize how customers interact with us to more efficiently manage projects and improve their homes.
My Lowe's will launch near the end of fiscal 2011.
And finally we are pleased to announce that we have begun deployment of approximately 42 000 handheld devices for our stores in the U.S.
and Canada.
We expect this rollout to be complete by the end of the fiscal year.
Our goal is to make home improvement simple for customers and for our employees.
Leveraging Apple's iPhone technology our employees will check inventory availability access how-to videos and utilize lowes.com from the aisles of the store.
This is a significant step towards simplicity and seamlessness and we will continue to add functionality to these devices over time.
The progress that I've outlined is building momentum behind our brand differentiation and will ultimately drive market share gains.
In the interim we are working diligently to improve sales and profitability in a way that will generate sustained customer preference and shareholder value.
Before I turn over to Bob Gfeller to provide more details on the quarter and our near-term opportunities I would like to thank our hardworking employees for their ongoing dedication and customer focus.
Additionally I'm pleased to announce that our Sanford North Carolina store which was destroyed by a tornado on April 16 will reopen to continue serving the Sanford community on Thursday September 8.
Thanks again for your interest.
I'll now turn it over to Bob.
Thanks Robert and good morning.
During my time today I will review our second quarter performance as well as describe how we are working to win the customers' hard-earned money drive sales and grow market share.
Then I will move on to explain our merchandising direction for the next few years and how we are working across all functions to accelerate sales and differentiate our brand.
We finished the second quarter with negative 0.3% comps.
Our performance was driven by some rebound in the first quarter in nursery and lawn and landscape products offset by tough appliance comparisons resulting from last year's Cash for Appliances stimulus program.
Geographically performance exceeded the company average in the North Central and Northeast regions of the country as we energetically served customers who had been waiting to start spring and summer projects and who needed to make repairs after a tough winter of snow and ice storms.
Comp performance in the Gulf Coast region was significantly lower than the company average as extreme heat and severe drought dampened sales of outdoor products most notably outdoor power equipment nursery and lawn and landscape.
We observed large regional swings in these categories but most significantly in outdoor power equipment where double-digit comps in the Northeast and high-single digit comps in the North Central were offset by negative double-digit comps in the Southeast and South Central.
In the second quarter our outdoor categories recorded roughly a positive 3% comp and our indoor categories recorded roughly a negative 2% comp.
We reported strong nursery and lawn and landscape sales in the Northeast North Central and West while building materials performed well in the Southeast South Central and North Central regions of the country as our teams sold roofing materials and installation services to customers in the aftermath of the strong storms that hit those regions in the late spring.
Looking at indoor categories.
Tools comped in the mid-single digits driven by new Father's Day offers and the launch of our new and improved Kobalt mechanics tools.
The new program has premium specifications for torque teeth count metal hardness and ergonomics as good as any other leading brand.
And we have more than twice the SKUs of our prior program with a wide variety of single-socket sizes which is what the commercial customer demands.
The new line was launched as part of our second quarter Father's Day gift offering and it sold very well.
The Lowe's tool business has now comped positively for 6 consecutive quarters.
This momentum is reflected in our 60 basis points of unit share gains on a rolling 4-quarter basis.
Paint the #1 home improvement project continues to comp positively both indoors and outdoors.
Our Valspar interior Hi-DEF launch last year along with the launches of our allen+roth paint palette Kobalt Express Deck and Valspar Hi-DEF Duramax exterior paint earlier this year are driving this performance.
We expect the recent launches of Olympic 1 and Valspar Plus which is asthma and allergy certified by the Asthma and Allergy Foundation to drive continued positive paint comps into the second half of 2011.
In addition the paint desk area was reset in the first half to ensure customers have all the products they need to complete their paint projects organized in a way that is intuitive to them: repair prepare and paint.
And this month we introduced our first to market buy paint online and pick up in store with our exclusive 20-minute pickup guarantee.
So you can see that we are taking our paint business to new levels increasing our share of the #1 home improvement project.
Appliances recorded negative mid-single digit comps as we cycled another strong quarter of the Cash for Appliances stimulus program.
The good news is we have continued to gain appliance market share despite the negative comps.
We are further encouraged by having just recently been named by J.D.
Power as the highest-ranking major appliance retailer in customer satisfaction.
This is the second year in a row and the third out of the last 4 years that we’ve received this distinction.
The basis for this ranking is a weighted average of performance across all aspects of the total appliance experience: sales staff service store facility merchandise selection and availability price delivery services and installation.
Appliances is our #1 category sold online and we have new tools in place to help customers and employees research compare and price appliances to make their shopping experience faster and simpler.
The online appliance selector helps customers choose the right appliances for their needs conveniently from their own personal computer.
And the lowes.com product ratings and reviews provide consumers with realtime unbiased and unfiltered customer feedback on products already bought and in use.
Another category with opportunity for improvement is flooring which recorded low-single digit negative comps in the second quarter.
It is a large-ticket category that generally follows other projects like painting when a customer is updating a room.
Today we need to provide strong value to entice consumers with limited discretionary income to plan and complete a major flooring project.
And we have some changes underway that should bear fruit in the second half of this year.
Within laminate and wood we have completed a chain-wide reset.
We now have enough SKU breadth to compete with all types of flooring store competition and pricing has gotten sharper with opening price points on laminate flooring now under $1 per square foot.
Carpet continues to perform well and we are excited about the ways we continue to drive value in this category.
Over the next few months we will roll out a compelling opening price point program and introduce 2 new products with great wear and stain resistant qualities.
In ceramic tile we are resetting 25% of every ceramic floor tile set replacing over 100 SKUs.
Additionally with wall tile sales gaining strength this month we have added 50 new SKUs across many stores.
Why? Customers want more variety in color style and size of tile as they freshen the look of their homes by completing bath makeovers and small tile accent projects in kitchens.
Now turning to inventory.
We ended the quarter with roughly 2% more inventory than last year.
We are comfortable with our inventory levels of grills patio furniture and room air conditioners as we do not expect significant third quarter markdown pressure in connection with second quarter inventory levels.
That completes my review of second quarter performance and some category specific efforts to drive sales in the back half of 2011.
Now I would like to more broadly discuss new directions for Lowe's merchandising.
As merchandising looks to attract customers to drive sales and margin dollar growth we believe that we must present value to the customer every day and we must differentiate ourselves by providing simple fresh and innovative ideas and solutions.
To the customer value is price plus something more.
It is that simple.
So I want to take a moment to discuss how we are reinvigorating our efforts to enhance our price image in the eye of the consumer and to provide the extra something that distinguishes us from our competitors.
High-low pricing has become more influential in our sector as we and other retailers have responded to a shrinking market.
As a result customers have learned to wait on the next big deal because they know that if they wait long enough they can get a lower price than the Every Day Low Price.
So our sector has come to rely in recent years on creating compelling promotions.
However we must be vigilant to ensure that our customers perceive us to be priced competitively every day even against online retailers and smaller category killers.
So job #1 in this economic environment is ensuring our pricing compares well on those high velocity items that are easiest to compare to other retailers.
We call these high velocity and highly comparable items benchmark items.
To do this we are expanding our list of benchmark items to sharpen our everyday pricing on the most visible items and we are starting to lessen the frequency of special advertised promotions.
There may be some categories or seasons of the year which will be more promotional than others but we need to convince customers both through our pricing and our messaging that they can expect a competitive price every time they shop on lowes.com or in our stores.
This effort is being made with speed and with caution and an eye to margin impact.
We expect a lag between our actions and customer response as we know that it takes time and marketing investment for the customer to recognize and respond to price changes.
Our Lowe's everyday value proposition reinforces our Every Day Low Price program with customers.
As a reminder this program provides Lowe's consumer credit card holders with 5% off everyday.
For purchases above $299 we continue to offer cardholders their choice of no interest financing or the 5% off value.
This program aims to provide a clear statement of value to Lowe's customers every day.
It encourages them to shop for all of their household needs at Lowe's and rewards their loyalty.
So far customer response has exceeded our expectations and this program is driving increased transactions gross margin dollars and EBIT margins.
Now to the other elements of the value equation that something that when added to Every Day Low Prices truly differentiates us from our competitors.
We are focused on 2 key areas that will shout value to the customer.
They are product differentiation and solutions-based merchandising.
Product differentiation establishes Lowe's as the place to find the newest and most relevant products for home improvement.
These products can be national brands or they can be private brands.
As we look to successfully introduce more new products we are working closer than ever with our key vendor partners on new product development new display techniques and technologies.
We want to pull innovation forward and make it easy to find in our stores and online creating a wow customer experience.
So we are looking to partner with vendors of all sizes who are developing new high-tech products for the home improvement industry products that further position Lowe's as a customer solutions hub.
We are plowing new ground that will reap long-term benefit to our strong brand and customer franchise.
Solutions-based merchandising redirects our merchants' focus from a product- and vendor-centric view to a customer-centric view.
This may sound simple but it requires great team work across functions and products like never before.
Our merchants are embracing this idea the idea that we must assort assemble and present solutions to the customer because the customer shops by occasion.
So for example when customers want to refresh their bathrooms they don't think about buying a vanity a mirror a new toilet new faucets and bath hardware in isolation from each other.
Instead they think about how they want the bathroom to look in total and their bathroom remodel is the occasion.
Rather than making customers look for each component on separate aisles we want to bring together different vignettes that will help them better determine what they want and more easily grab or order the items that they need.
We have previously taken this approach to some extent but never across as many occasions and never before pulling the inventory together for the customer in a way that helps them buy all of the various products that they need to complete the total project.
Frankly as a big box we have to get better at the tricks of the trade of great specialty retailing.
We have been experimenting with product differentiation and solutions-based merchandising in test store end caps during the first half of this year and have seen positive customer response.
We have also de-racked areas of these test stores reducing SKUs to create larger spaces to display complete solutions.
We expect the results to be even more favorable when we expand this idea further to present solutions-based sets in an open vignette space.
Expansion plans for more powerful end caps and drop zones as we call them are underway.
As we increase our focus on product differentiation and solutions-based merchandising we are going to test and learn much more than in the past.
We need to take a lot of at-bats to hit a home run.
And with such a large store base we have a great opportunity to cost effectively try many things within just a few stores to see what works and then test the winners more broadly before rolling them out chain-wide.
So you will see a more aggressive and proactive testing approach from us in the future.
I would like to share the results of one such test and have chosen a project that involved all of the merchandising divisions to some degree.
The goal was to showcase product innovation and value in a way that resonated with the customer.
That involved bringing solutions out of the standard racking presenting them in drop zones and vignettes that made the customer experience more simple and helpful and last highlighting our great selection of national and private brands.
As you can imagine this project required that we reallocate space across the store removing standard rack in some cases and making room for the new solutions-based presentations.
And we developed new signs and messaging to communicate with the consumer.
Customer feedback was extremely positive.
They said it was easier to find product and solutions in the store easier to understand product value that Lowe's is more innovative than before and that they were more motivated to improve their home and they were more likely to shop at Lowe's in the future.
In order to bring innovation and solutions-based merchandising to life we are making strong progress in implementing Integrated Planning and Execution or IP&amp;E which will support our merchants' efforts to go local.
IP&amp;E will provide the tools and processes to make our entire organization more efficient and refined in ensuring that the right product is in the right market in the right quantity to best meet customer needs.
And it will create institutional memory to maintain local assorting decisions when merchants change.
Over 80% of the merchandising teams have product line reviews in process with this new set of processes and tools and they are uncovering significant consumer insights that are driving different product decisions.
Resets from these line reviews are beginning now and will continue throughout 2012 and we should obtain sales inventory turn benefit beginning in 2012 and ramping into 2013.
The IP&amp;E process was recently used in a fashion category.
The merchandising team combined science from the IP&amp;E tools with input from talented people from across our company to create a comprehensive view of the customer needs in each store.
They used that insight to be customer advocates across all aspects of the product line review for product line design to store experience.
And finally they varied selection for each store providing more of the finishes price points and platforms that consumers expect to see in their local markets.
The full refresh should be completed in the fall of 2011.
So in summary we were not satisfied with second quarter performance.
But my team has been reshaping the merchandising direction implementing changes now that should advance us further in our multiyear implementation of our broader strategic vision of a customer-centric anytime anywhere and simpler shopping experience.
As we enter this on ramp to our future we will concentrate on delivering better value to customers price plus something more and we will work to differentiate our product offering and organize the customers’ multi-channel shopping experience around solutions.
We expect to begin realizing the benefit of these initiatives in 2012 as we will balance a desire for speed to market with the prudent test-and-learn approach I discussed earlier.
But we will stay focused on making the changes necessary to generate sustained customer preference and shareholder value.
Thanks for your interest in Lowe's and I will now turn the call over to Bob Hull to review our second quarter financial results.
Bob? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
Sales for the second quarter were $14.5 billion which represents a 1.3% increase over last year's second quarter.
In Q2 total customer transactions increased 2% while total average ticket decreased 0.7% to $62.44.
Comp sales were negative 0.3% for the quarter which was below our guidance of approximately 2%.
The lower-than-expected performance was driven by less recovery than anticipated from Q1 in our seasonal businesses and by higher-than-expected impact from lumber deflation which hurt second quarter comps by approximately 70 basis points.
For the quarter comp average ticket declined 0.9% while comp transactions increased 0.6%.
Looking at monthly trends comps were negative 2.7% in May flat in June and positive 2.2% in July.
The improvement in monthly comps during the quarter was driven by a few factors.
First we experienced a delay in our seasonal business which improved as the quarter progressed.
Second demand associated with effort to remedy store damage was moderate in May and strengthened in June and July.
Lastly the toughest Cash for Appliances comparison from Q2 last year was in May.
Appliance comps for the quarter while still negative improved throughout the quarter.
With regard to product categories the categories that had above average comps in the second quarter include building materials rough electrical modern landscape nursery tools rough plumbing paint hardware and seasonal living.
Year-to-date comp sales were negative 1.7% and total sales of $26.7 billion were essentially flat to the first half of 2010.
Gross margin for the second quarter was 34.49% of sales which decreased 37 basis points from last year's second quarter.
In the quarter promotional activity negatively impacted gross margin by approximately 20 basis points.
This promotional activity was initiated by both us and the competition.
As you heard from Bob earlier we are expanding our benchmark list to sharpen our everyday pricing on the most visible items and we are working to lessen the frequency of special advertised promotions.
Higher transportation cost both fuel and ocean freight negatively impacted gross margin by an estimated 15 basis points.
In addition our proprietary credit value proposition which offers customers the choice of 5% off every day or promotional financing negatively impacted gross margin by 11 basis points.
As Robert noted this was more than offset by a leverage in tender and other costs associated with our proprietary credit program.
I will provide the details of SG&amp;A and EBIT impacts in a moment.
Lastly clearance activity associated with resets hurt gross margin by approximately 10 basis points.
Slightly offsetting these items were Base Price Optimization and patch area expansion aided the gross margin by approximately 15 basis points.
Year-to-date gross margin was 34.93% of sales a decrease of 8 basis points from the first half of 2010.
SG&amp;A for Q2 was 22.22% of sales which deleveraged 1 basis point.
During the quarter we incurred an $83 million charge related to an evaluation of the carrying value of long-life assets including 7 stores that were closed.
This compares to approximately $11 million in Q2 2010 which results in deleverage of 49 basis points.
We also experienced approximately 15 basis points of deleverage related to investments made to improve customer experiences.
The expenses related to staffing up our contact center to support the in-sourcing of repair services internal and external resources for additional lowes.com capabilities advancing the My Lowe's concept and continued efforts to build out our customer relationship platform.
Store payroll deleveraged 10 basis points due to a slight increase in average hourly rate and new stores.
Payroll taxes deleveraged 7 basis points as a result of both higher payroll taxes and higher payroll expenses.
Almost completely offsetting these items was leverage in the following areas: we experienced 44 basis points of leverage associated with our proprietary credit program.
This leverage was driven by a combination of fewer losses as well as lower promotional financing as a direct result of customers choosing 5% off everyday versus promotional financing.
In addition tender costs were lower as the mix of proprietary credit increased 240 basis points in the quarter to 21% of sales.
Also bonus expense leveraged 35 basis points in the quarter due to lower payment levels relative to plan compared with this time last year.
Year-to-date SG&amp;A of 23.76% of sales which deleveraged 27 basis points in the first half of 2010.
During the first half of 2011 charges associated with asset impairment cost 29 basis points of the SG&amp;A deleverage.
Depreciation for the quarter was $365 million which was 2.51% of sales and leveraged 26 basis points compared with last year's second quarter.
We estimate that our proprietary credit value propositions positively impacted EBIT by 29 basis points for the quarter.
However this was more than offset by the negative 49 basis point impact associated with impairment charges contributing to an EBIT decline of 12 basis points to 9.76% of sales for Q2.
For the first half EBIT was 8.41% of sales which was 14 basis points lower than the same period last year.
Interest expense was $90 million for the quarter and deleveraged 3 basis points to last year as a percentage of sales.
For the quarter total expenses were 25.35% of sales and leveraged 22 basis points.
Year-to-date total expenses were 27.19% of sales and deleveraged 11 basis points versus last year.
Pretax earnings for the quarter were 9.14% of sales.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 37.5% versus 37.7% for Q2 last year.
Net earnings were $830 million for the quarter which was essentially flat to Q2 2010.
Earnings per share of $0.64 for the second quarter was below our guidance of $0.65 to $0.69 but please remember that the reported $0.64 includes the $0.04 per share of negative impact associated with impairment charges.
Earnings per share increased 10.3% versus last year's $0.58.
For the first 6 months of 2011 earnings per share of $0.98 represents a 6.5% increase over the first half of 2010.
Now to a few items in the balance sheet starting with assets.
Cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of the quarter was $568 million.
Our second quarter inventory balance of $8.8 billion increased $172 million or 2% versus Q2 last year.
The increase was driven by new stores and an increase in distribution center inventory.
Inventory turnover calculated by taking a trailing 4 quarters cost of sales divided by average inventory for the last 5 quarters was 3.6% a decrease of 3 basis points from Q2 2010.
Return on assets determined using a trailing 4 quarters earnings divided by average assets for the last 5 quarters increased 35 basis points to 5.74%.
Moving on to the liability section of the balance sheet.
Accounts payable of $5.4 billion represents a 10% increase from Q2 last year.
The higher accounts payable balance relates to the timing of purchases this year relative to last year.
Our debt-to-equity ratio was 39.5% compared with 29% for Q2 last year.
At the end of the second quarter lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 1.75x.
Return on invested capital measured using a trailing 4 quarters earnings plus tax adjusted interest divided by average debt and equity for the last 5 quarters increased 65 basis points to 9.04%.
Now looking at the statement of cash flows.
Cash flow from operations was $3.3 billion an increase of $511 million or 18% over last year largely due to the increase in accounts payable.
Cash used for property acquired was $780 million a 27% increase due to the corporate systems and store infrastructure investments we are making to provide better customer experiences.
As a result year-to-date free cash flow of $2.5 billion is 16% higher than the first half of 2010.
During the quarter we repurchased 59.7 million shares at an average price of $23.46 for a total repurchase amount of $1.4 billion.
Year-to-date we have repurchased 2.4 billion and have exhausted our share repurchase authorization.
We are continuing to assess market conditions and evaluate options regarding capital structure and future share repurchases.
Looking ahead I'd like to address several of the items detailed in Lowe's business outlook.
The macro environment has changed dramatically over the past several weeks.
We went from worrying about the customer who was stretched by fuel and other inflation to a nation watching the debt ceiling countdown and now to extremely volatile equity markets.
Given this and the impact on consumer sentiment we have lowered our sales outlook for the second half of 2011.
We are now planning for comparable store sales to be approximately flat to last year for Q3 and Q4.
Earnings before interest and taxes and earnings per share estimates have been similarly reduced to reflect the lower expected sales.
Macro challenges aside we are not happy with our recent performance and are working to improve sales profitability and shareholder value.
However as you heard from Robert and Bob these efforts take time to implement and meaningful benefits from our actions likely won't be reflected in our financial results until 2012.
We expect a third quarter total sales increase by approximately 2% with comp sales estimated to be essentially flat to last year and approximately 1.3% average square footage growth.
Earnings before interest and taxes for the third quarter are expected to decrease 10 to 20 basis points to last year as a percentage of sales.
This EBIT outlook includes approximately $30 million or 25 basis points of additional expenses associated with the 7 stores that closed yesterday.
For the quarter interest expense is expected to be approximately $90 million.
The income tax rate is forecasted to be 37.7% for the quarter.
We expect earnings per share of $0.30 to $0.33 including the additional expenses associated with store closings.
For 2011 we are estimating comp sales to decline by approximately 1%.
For the year we expect to open approximately 25 stores close 7 resulting in a net addition of 18 stores for an increase in average square footage of approximately 1.3%.
With the estimated 1.4% impact of the 53rd week total sales are expected to increase approximately 2%.
For the year we are anticipating EBIT to decrease approximately 30 basis points.
This includes approximately $115 million or 25 basis points associated with asset impairment and store closing expenses.
For 2011 interest expense is expected to be approximately $360 million.
For the year we expect the effective tax rate to be approximately 36%.
The sum of these inputs should yield earnings per share of $1.48 to $1.54 which includes approximately $0.06 per share in impairment and store closing charges.
For the year we are forecasting cash flows from operations to be approximately $4.1 billion.
Our capital expenditures for 2011 are forecasted to be approximately $2.1 billion with roughly $100 million funded by operating leases resulting in cash capital expenditures of approximately $2 billion.
As a result we are forecasting free cash flow of $2.1 billion for the year.
Our guidance for 2011 includes share repurchases activity through Q2 but does not include any impact from future share repurchases.
Ashley we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Brian Nagel with Oppenheimer.
A couple of questions if I could.
First off an easy one.
You gave us the comp progression through the quarter and you mentioned too just some of the noise in the marketplace.
Can you comment on recognizing it's early in the third quarter but can you comment at all about how sales have tracked here in August? And have you seen any again I know it's difficult to break apart all the pieces but if you've seen any clear impact upon your business of the recent volatility in the financial markets.
We've not seen any -- we don't believe we've seen any activity from what's transpired in the financial markets on the performance August to date.
I will tell you Brian that our comp performance through yesterday is slightly positive.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Then the second question I have a little bit longer in nature.
You've laid out -- you gave us a lot of detail on some of the re-merchandising efforts in your stores.
You said that you -- we should see the benefits of that in 2012.
Near term as this is taking place in your stores do you expect any type of sales disruption? And then could there be any type of extra promotional activity as you clear through product that may not be part of that longer-term plan? Brian this is Bob Gfeller.
I would answer your question as no.
As I said in my remarks we've been working on this re-merchandising effort really for the first half of this year.
We did eliminate some SKUs to make room do not foresee a major impact from that.
We have been kind of working on how to execute these most efficiently for the stores.
And that's part of our test-and-learn kind of mentality and approach going forward.
So I can tell you that for the second half working with Ricky and his team in store op we don't see significant disruption.
In fact I would say we would probably see a similar type impact that I started talking about that we saw in the test results.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
My first question relates to the move from the outdoor season to the indoor season.
Obviously with the seasonal rebounding it helped Q2.
As the indoor products become seasonally more significant how is that factored into your comp outlook? And perhaps you can synthesize the appliance compare into that discussion as well.
I'll start and let Bob Gfeller add any color.
So certainly Matt when we take a look at our performance by category we understand that in the second quarter we had some negative impact in appliances as results for the Cash for Appliances compare.
That's really 25-basis point drag in Q2.
We think that's only about 5-basis point drag in Q3.
Also as Bob mentioned a number of things transpiring in flooring should help the second half of the year.
So those are 2 indoor categories as Bob mentioned in his comments struggled in Q2.
We expect better performance in the second half of the year.
Matt I would add to Bob's comments that as you look at appliances flooring as Bob said fashion bath that the IP&amp;E process and the line review process is opening up some positive for us in the back half.
I think I mentioned the tools strength which we expect will continue into the holiday season.
And the whole focus on product differentiation as we move to the back half is very focused on indoor products.
Got it.
That's great.
And then just by way of follow-up your vendors as they reported their second quarters spoke a lot about price increases or the attempt to take price increases.
I know this is nothing new.
You did not seem to discuss any real impact from input cost increases when you talked about gross margin.
So if you could just post us on what’s transpiring in the supply chain from that perspective.
Matt as you know as we think about the many different impacts on gross margin it's tough to necessarily discern basis points here or there.
I'll let Bob Gfeller talk about the process regarding vendor requests.
The price increases that we saw were somewhat included in the promotional activity of 20 basis points that I referenced.
What that means is that promotions might have actually taken price down a little bit while some of the input costs may have gone up slightly.
Got it.
Matt just to add to Bob's comments.
As I think we mentioned before that vendors are coming forward with price increase requests.
Our approach is to negotiate as hard as we can to the lowest cost possible.
We certainly take them under consideration.
Where we have taken pricing we have moved some through to retail the paint being one good example and rough electrical and rough plumbing are similarly.
But as it relates to looking into the back half as Bob said I think it's more neutral than it was in the first half.
The next question comes from the line of Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
On the -- I just want to follow up on the pricing commentary.
How does -- I guess it's a refocus on EDLP.
How does this interact with your recent price optimization effort? Do you think you'll unwind some of the margin gains? It looks like maybe you got 20 basis points of benefit to gross margin in the past year out of pricing initiatives.
Will we get some of that back as we look forward? Chris this is Bob Gfeller.
Just in terms of pricing and price perception Every Day Low Price is our goal and our focus.
And therefore everyday low cost is primary to deliver that everyday retail pricing approach.
We do use new lower prices and special values at times although again going forward we're going to be much more selective on promotion.
Base Price Optimization and patch area expansion are now cycling really a year of being part of our everyday way we manage merchandising and we are going to continue with those programs.
And I would say that Base Price Optimization is not always a price increase.
It can lead to -- I'm sorry not only is it price decrease it can lead to price increases so that we are competitively priced overall.
So overall I would say that looking forward Base Price Optimization and patch area expansion will be part of our program in the back half as it has been for the last year.
The other thing I would add Chris is that in some cases Base Price Optimization identified areas where prices were actually below the competition.
So we can be Every Day Low Price in some cases raise our price up to the level of competition.
Okay.
Totally understood.
So it sounds like net-net just really trying to refocus the industry on EDLP.
So perhaps are we talking -- how many SKUs would you say are in that benchmark group out of a store that maybe has 40 000? And just a quick clarification Bob Hull did you say tax rate 36% for the year? Does that mean that it's going to be abnormally low in 4Q? Chris good catch.
I think I did say 36%.
It's actually 37.6% to clarify.
Chris this is Robert.
With regard to the number of benchmark items that's something that we don't disclose.
I think the important point there is that we're expanding the number of benchmark items from what we have in the past.
Several things we've done is we kind of take this movement back to EDLP.
As you know going through the financial downturn that took place over the past several years housing economic downturn it naturally led to a more promotional environment.
As we transition out of that we do think that the customers are telling us that they're looking for great value every day.
So whether it's expanding the list of benchmark items to better send the message to them on an ongoing basis that they can find great value every day whether it's what we did with our 5% off value prop that we did with the -- on the Lowe's credit card the return back to EDLP and the work that Bob and his team were doing to work with our vendors and say we're going to take everything we can out of cost so we can provide that EDLP benefit to the customer and protect margin every day.
Those are the type of things that we're working on.
And so I think the important takeaway is not how many is on the benchmark list but the fact that we're expanding it to really to drive that price perception home with the consumer every day.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
On the price optimization just to clarify there's been good gross margin benefit from this over the past year.
Should we expect that going forward you continue to get gross margin benefit out of that? Or how should that play especially as you focus on this great value everyday effort? Eric this is Bob Hull.
I'll start.
Yes I think just continued opportunities to refine our efforts in Base Price Optimization.
I think all these tools work in tandem as Bob Gfeller described integrating planning and execution is about taking the right SKUs in the right locations to be better market assorted.
We've done a good job in the past.
This kind of takes it up a notch.
As a result of the overall umbrella effort to go local Base Price Optimization has a role to play there to refine the retails of the SKUs that are in market there.
So we do expect to continue to tweak the dials to have some novel positive impact going forward.
And Eric I would just add one other comment.
We've cycled the year of the program.
So again in the notion of test and learn we're taking a look at all we've done driving sales helping margin being more price competitive and as a merchandising organization taking that into year 2 of the program.
So it's just an ongoing approach that's really part of how we're going to market now.
I guess to be more direct about it it feels like you’ve had good gross margin success but perhaps not the sales success in the last year.
Is more of the emphasis over going forward or over the next year to grow the gross margin less and grow the sales line more? I just want to be clear on what's different within this.
Eric this is Robert.
I think our real focus is on how do we drive gross margin dollars and EBIT and better return to shareholders.
So it's -- a great example is what we did with the 5% off everyday value prop on the Lowe's credit card.
It has a slight negative impact on gross margin rate but it actually drove more gross margin dollars at lower expense so it drove a higher EBIT.
So those are the type of opportunities that we're looking for.
So take that combined with what we're doing EDLP we used Base Price Optimization for those tiers.
We're going to drive traffic.
There'll be other areas where we'll gain margin opportunity and we'll look at the entire mix and say how do we provide enhanced margin dollars and a better EBIT to drive greater shareholder value.
And then just one follow-up.
In terms of the store closing decision can you just review what led to that what the thoughts were for that and what's changed in the equation? Yes.
As we've talked to you in the past we have several stores that were on our watch list and we said we would continue to monitor them.
We've done a lot of things in those stores to try and reduce operating costs of those stores to try and make necessary changes that we could that we thought would improve sales.
As we looked at ongoing slow economic recovery and what now according to the Fed will even be probably even more delayed or slower growth over the balance of this year and potentially into next year and we looked out over the time line what we thought those stores could accomplish we just came to the conclusion that we didn't think there was enough opportunity in those markets to get those stores operating at the level that we needed to.
So we made the difficult decision to go ahead and close them.
Rick I don't know if you have anything else you want to add? No Robert that's -- as we discussed in the past we have a process in place with operations where we consistently review our underperforming stores to evaluate them against the market performance.
As part of that ongoing process as Robert identified in this quarter's review and looking at the markets and what's happening at the macro level we just determined that despite the best efforts of our teams in those locations that the opportunity just wasn't there.
So we made that difficult decision last night to inform those employees that we would close the stores.
But it is part of our ongoing process as we review our stores on a quarterly basis.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
A couple of questions.
First just help us understand what you had baked into the second half of gross margin outlook Bob for the impact of increasing the benchmark price list and is that offset either partially or fully by lower kind of ad promotional cadence? How do we think about that? And then secondly on the SG&amp;A front do you think you guys can hold this flat as a percentage of sales in a flat comp environment? How should we think about that? And how long you could do that? So Peter I think for Q3 we're looking at gross margin performance not dissimilar to what we saw in Q2 all the same factors at play.
We've got from an SG&amp;A front we do have a bit of a headwind regarding the $30-or-so million associated with store closings.
We do expect continued benefit from proprietary credit the same or maybe a little bit higher in Q3 versus what we saw in Q2.
As it relates to our outlook for the second half sales and earnings are below plan which means we'll likely leverage bonus expenses in the second half probably not to the same degree of what we leveraged in Q2.
And then we're always taking I think as Robert identified in his comments we're continuing to take a critical look as to how we operate how work gets done whatnot and ensure that we are getting value for all the dollars we invest in the business.
And then one follow-up in terms of assessing the options for the capital structure can you give us a timeframe maybe for when we might hear the result of those discussions? No real timing Peter.
We went into the year with a plan to repurchase $2.4 billion.
We did that in the first 2 quarters.
If you take a look at both cash flow from operations and free cash flow we generated 80% of free cash flow in the first half of the year.
And in fact more than 100% of free cash flow in the first half.
So we try to better orient the timing of share repurchases with cash coming in the door.
However as we've done in the past we'll continue to evaluate the market and options.
And to the extent we feel we can be opportunistic that's consistent with our long-term direction we will do so.
But more to come there.
Our next question comes from the line of Laura Champine with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> You mentioned that your outlook for 2012 at least for the stores that you closed came down a little bit on the top line just given the macroeconomic conditions.
Can you talk about from a broader perspective what we should be thinking for 2012 in terms of a total company comp as you’ve got these in-house initiatives that hopefully will offset a weaker environment.
Should we be looking at low-single digit to maybe mid-single digits? Or if you could comment just qualitatively on the shape of the recovery for next year.
Laura this is Bob.
I'll start.
So I think we talked in terms of taking a look at our outlook more broadly we took as I mentioned in my comments our sales and earnings outlook for the back half of the year down 4 to 7 stores that Rick described.
We took a little bit longer-term view of those stores and the markets they're in and as he said despite the best efforts of the team made the decision to close.
Longer term we'll update you on our expectations 2012 and beyond at our Analyst Conference in the fall.
I think news is changing dramatically.
We're seeing that reflected in the roller coaster ride in the equity markets so I think it's premature for us to comment on what 2012 looks like.
I'd like to get to our Analyst Conference later this year.
As always thanks for your continued interest in Lowe's and we look forward to speaking with you again when we report our third quarter results on November 14.
Thanks and have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Lowe's Companies' Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management's expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
Those risks are described in the company's earnings release and in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Also during this call management will be using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other information about them posted on Lowe's Investor Relations website under Corporate Information and Investor Documents.
Hosting today's conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock Chairman President and CEO; Mr.
Rick Damron Executive Vice President of Store Operations; and Mr.
Bob Hull Executive Vice President and CFO.
I will now turn the program over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in Lowe's.
Following my remarks Rick Damron will review our operational performance and Bob Hull will review our financial results in detail.
But first let me share a summary of our third quarter performance as well as how we're thinking about our business going forward.
Sales for the quarter increased 2.3% while comparable store sales were positive 0.7%.
Comp traffic increased 0.7% in the third quarter and comp average ticket was flat.
Gross margin contracted 99 basis points in the quarter.
Bob Hull will provide more details regarding gross margin in a few minutes.
We had good operating expense control in the quarter third quarter however as detailed in today's release we recognized charges related to store closings and discontinued projects which in aggregate reduced pretax earnings for the quarter by $336 million and diluted earnings per share by $0.17.
Including this charge we delivered earnings per share of $0.18 in the third quarter.
Excluding the charge we delivered earnings per share that exceeded our guidance for the quarter.
As I said before our performance is not at the level we expect relative to the market or frankly that we demand of ourselves as we define success so we're taking action.
The executive team is looking at our business from a fresh perspective and we're evaluating how we operate on a cross-functional basis to ensure consistent and connected execution.
During the third quarter we reorganized our store operations and merchandising organizations to improve efficiencies increase speed to market for new products and services and enhance the shopping experience for customers.
We streamlined our field organizational structure resulting in fewer districts and regions.
And we've announced the closing of 27 stores this year that were underperforming despite the tremendous effort and hard work of our employees.
These were very difficult decisions that unfortunately affected hard-working employees in the communities we serve.
Although the decisions were difficult they were absolutely necessary to rightsize the organization for the realities of the economic environment we operate in today.
We also recognized that we need to bring excitement back to the Lowe's experience and we're making incremental improvements to make our business better.
Our near-term focus is on value improvement and product differentiation both of which will drive greater asset productivity.
Value improvement will ensure that we're getting the lowest inventory acquisition cost by working with our vendor partners to simplify deal structures.
We will also rationalize promotions which will allow us to provide low retail prices every day.
We will also localize our product assortments ensuring that the right product is in the right market in the right quantity.
Product differentiation will establish Lowe's as the place to find the newest and most relevant products for home improvement.
These products can be national brands or they can be private brands.
We're working more closely than ever with our key vendor partners on new product development and new display techniques.
In fact we're in the process of refreshing end caps and establishing drop zones in approximately 1/3 of our chain highlighting innovation value private and national brands and creative idea solutions.
This focus will also drive the expansion of items online providing customers a broader assortment of products than we stock in our stores essentially providing customers an endless aisle.
And we expect to have over 260 000 items available online by the end of the year.
You'll hear more about our merchandising strategies at our Analyst and Investor Conference on December 5 and 6.
In mid-September we launched our new brand positioning and advertising campaign Never Stop Improving.
This is more than a tagline.
It's a mindset for our customers and a rallying cry for our employees.
We're committed to constantly innovate and improve in order to satisfy the ever-changing needs of our customers and inspire them to innovate and improve their homes.
The brand positioning and advertising campaign are the results of in-depth research showing that consumers are looking for inspiration and motivation.
We will lead them through the journey of home improvement from inspiration and planning to execution and enjoyment.
We are keenly focused on improving our core business while also developing new capabilities and services for the future and I'm pleased to announce that we launched My Lowe's in mid-October.
My Lowe's is a revolutionary new online tool that makes managing maintaining and improving homes simpler than it's ever been.
Customers can create home profiles save room dimensions and paint colors organize owner's manuals and product warranties create shopping to do or wish list for products projects on the horizon set reoccurring reminders for common maintenance items and store purchase history from all sales channels.
And the capabilities of My Lowe's will grow and evolve over time based on customer and employee feedback.
Customers are excited about this very relevant and personalized offering and we're pleased with early reads on operating metrics.
The ultimate goal of My Lowe's is to consolidate spend that is currently spread across many competitors into Lowe's.
We will more deeply penetrate our existing customer base garnering a greater share of wallet as well as attract new customers with a lower cost of acquisition.
You'll hear more about our commitment to deliver better customer experiences experiences that are simple and optimized across all channels at our Analyst and Investor Conference.
We've experienced a lot of change in the past 90 days and disruption is inevitable when changes of this magnitude are made.
However I am confident that the team is more connected than ever and focused on the most impactful enterprise priorities.
The team is energized and moving forward on a clear path that is not dependent on an unlikely near-term economic recovery.
I would like to thank our hard-working employees for their ongoing dedication and customer focus during a time of significant change.
Thanks again for your interest.
Rick? Thanks Robert and good morning.
During my time today I will review our third quarter performance as well as discuss some of the recent changes we have made to streamline our core operations and then provide an update on some of the store investments we discussed earlier this year.
We finished the third quarter with positive 0.7% of basis point comp Hurricane Irene contributed roughly 60 basis points to our comp growth as we help customers on the Eastern shore inland mid-Atlantic and New England prepare for work and cleanup from high winds and flooding.
There was particularly strong demand for roofing products dehumidifiers pumps and tanks generators wet dry vacuums and cleaning supplies.
Separately our private brands continue to provide customers with compelling value.
Our new line of cobalt power tools combined with our strong national brands drove strong tool comps.
Seasonal clearance of patio furniture generated strong seasonal living comps unfortunately it also negatively impacted gross margin.
[indiscernible] benefited from consumers buying more energy savings LED bulbs and stockpiling incandescent bulbs in anticipation of federal regulations phasing out 100 watt incandescent bulbs beginning in 2012.
Large discretionary products remain pressured.
Millwork recorded double-digit negative comps with the greatest weakness in entry doors storm doors and windows which last year benefited from ENERGY STAR tax credits.
Cabinets and countertops appliances and fashion plumbing also recorded negative mid- to high-single digit comps in the third quarter.
According to third-party measures cabinets and countertops continues to show strong share gains but not enough to offset the contracting market for these products.
Within appliances we chose not to match some competitor's extremely aggressive third quarter percent off promotions.
Inventories ended the quarter 5.2% or $447 million higher than the third quarter of last year.
This increase was driven by an additional investment in holiday merchandise and the timing of the associated inventory build as well as the expansion of some product lines.
For instance laminate and tile flooring and LED lamp bulbs.
Further last year's demand for winter- storm-related items outstripped our supply.
So we are more aggressively ramping up for this winter.
As a result we were well prepared to meet customer needs during the recent early winter storm.
We expect year-end inventories to be 2% to 3% above last year as we sell-through holiday products reduce replenishment and rationalizing SKUs based on line reviews completed with input from our integrated planning and execution tool.
As Robert mentioned we have been looking at the organization with a fresh perspective and identifying ways to improve our performance both in the short and long term.
The third quarter saw significant changes to our organizational structure store base and store and IT infrastructure.
Each change represents a move towards a leaner more efficient company better able to serve the needs of our customers whenever and wherever they shop.
Taken together these changes reflect our focus on protecting retail excellence as we seek to grow share of wallet through our existing store base.
The new organizational structure is designed to improve speed to market efficiency and store autonomy what I referred to is flexibility within the framework on our first quarter call.
By providing the right balance of oversight and assistance in order to empower our store managers to focus on taking care of our customers and driving sales opportunity.
With the goals in mind this quarter we consolidated our store operations from 5 divisions to 3 from 21 regions to 14 and from 188 districts to 132 markets.
Likewise we consolidated our merchandising management from 4 business areas to 2 and from 18 to 16 merchandise divisions.
This reorganization impacted many Lowe's employees who played an integral role in the company's tremendous growth over the last decade and we thank them for this of dedicated service and significant contributions.
For the customer our new structure should translate to an even better shopping experience.
For our employees their response has already been positive.
The online conversation with our employee community portal indicates an overwhelmingly favorable response to these changes.
Disruption is inevitable when making changes of this magnitude.
But we minimize them by using a structured and quick decision-making process and a transparent internal communications process to explain what changes were being made when they were effective why they were necessary and how they would benefit the company.
Following Bob's many product transitions so the August and September timing of the changes was necessary to mitigate potential disruptions.
The effects on SG&amp;A are neutral this year as lower salary expense is offset by severance.
We also announced this quarter the closing of 27 underperforming stores.
In 2012 we expect the closings of these stores to add roughly 30 basis points to EBIT and return on invested capital.
Additionally after completing the comprehensive review of our pipeline of proposed new stores we decided to discontinue a number of planned new store projects and now we expect to open 10 to 15 stores per year in North America from 2012 forward.
This is more than a 50% reduction in our expansion plan.
In addition to the organization and store changes we discussed we have been investing in our store systems and the infrastructure in order to enhance system speed and ease-of-use for our associates providing a better experience for customers and greater productivity in our service model.
We saw an opportunity to improve our in-store data speeds make our in-store workstations operate more efficiently provide customers the ability to check prices against competitors and the ability to communicate with sales associates via e-mail and provide employees with a mobile device that would allow them to better serve customers in the aisle.
In fact we realized that doing these things would free up time for our associates to sell projects and serve more customers.
So I'd like to update you on our progress.
We are over 90% complete in upgrading our in-store data capacity.
We have updated all of our workstations including system speed providing better product images and providing a higher productivity through the ability to run multiple applications at once.
We have increased the data capacity of employee mailboxes in addition to rolling out e-mail to all remaining regular and part-time store employees.
Now all regular and part-time employees are able to correspond directly with customers by e-mail and share images.
Finally we have rolled out mobile devices based on Apple's iPhone technology to more than 60% of our stores.
We expect to complete the rollout by the end of this year.
Customize store applications allow store employees to scan items track inventory print price labels and search for items without ever leaving the customer.
Further because the applications and operating platform are so intuitive this is the first piece of technology we have deployed to the stores without training manuals.
On average each store has 25 of these devices and is using them instead of walking to a fixed terminal about 400x a day improving the customer experience and making our employees more productive.
The feedback from our stores on all of these upgrades has been highly positive for one simple reason.
Associates feel they are better equipped to serve customers.
These improvements will also free up time in the stores to serve more customers and we're taking the opportunity to quickly review our existing store processes in order to eliminate unnecessary activities.
To date we have identified opportunities to repurpose several hundred thousand labor hours from support tasks to directly serving customers.
We have also just completed the rollout of a labor scheduling system across the United States and Canada.
Store employees have responded very well to the enhanced visibility to their work schedules and to self-service features such as electronic time-off requests.
User-friendly screens and simple steps allow managers to accomplish the work more efficiently so they can dedicate more time to customer-facing activities.
Store management can now all learn and use one simple system instead of 3  antiquated ones.
Further this tool automate several processes that were previously manual.
Early findings indicate that the average store has reduced the time spent on scheduling and timekeeping tasks by 4 hours per week.
In addition we are now able to provide weekly detailed payroll performance reports directly to the store and field management teams which aligns their view of payroll performance and helps them identify efficiency opportunities.
I have shared with you some of the important changes we have been making.
Change is never easy.
But these changes provide the operating framework and the IT infrastructure for future enhancements to grow share of wallet and to bring more of every dollar to the bottom line.
Thanks for your interest in Lowe's and I will now turn the call over to Bob Hull to review our third quarter financial results.
Bob? Thanks Rick.
And good morning everyone.
Sales for the third quarter were $11.9 billion which represents a 2.3% increase over last year's third quarter.
In Q3 total customer count increased 1.9% and average ticket increased 0.4% to $61.84.
Comp sales were positive 0.7% for the quarter.
Looking at monthly trends comps were 1.4% in August 0.3% in September 0.4% in October.
For the quarter comp transactions were up 0.7% while comp average ticket was flat to last year.
With regards to product categories the categories that performed above average in the third quarter included building materials rough plumbing seasonal living lawn and landscape products fashion electrical tools and hardware.
In addition home fashion storage and cleaning and nursery performed essentially in line with the company average.
We estimate that our proprietary credit value proposition which offers customers a choice of 5% off every day or promotional financing positively impacted Q3 comps by 90 basis points.
Likewise we estimate that sales related to Hurricane Irene positively impacted Q3 comps by 60 basis points.
Our business continues to be negatively impacted by customers postponing big-ticket purchases.
During Q3 comps per transactions greater than $500 were negative 0.8% driven by Millwork appliances and cabinets and countertops.
Year-to-date sales of $38.6 billion represents 0.6% increase over 2010.
Gross margin for the third quarter was 34.6% of sales a decrease of 99 basis points from last year's third quarter.
As a reminder gross margin increased 85 basis points in Q3 2010.
A decrease in gross margin was driven by a number of factors.
Our proprietary credit value proposition negatively impacted gross margin by approximately 35 basis points.
In Q3 the impact was larger than the 11 basis point impact in Q2 due to the launch of the commercial program at the end of Q2 as well as an increase in the mix of proprietary credit to total sales.
This was more than offset by leverage in tender and other costs associated with our proprietary credit program.
I will provide the SG&amp;A and EBIT impacts in a moment.
Also inflation hurt gross margin in the quarter by 23 basis points driven primarily by paint.
During the quarter higher fuel cost increased cost of sales and negatively impacted gross margin by 13 basis points.
In addition seasonal sell-through both the impact of more counts this year as well as -- in comparison to the last year's strong sell-through hurt gross margin by 10 basis points.
As we've discussed we are working to lessen our promotional activity and move to an Every Day Low Price philosophy.
Actions taken to date negatively impacted gross margin in Q3 by approximately 10 basis points.
Lastly of the $336 million in charges related to store closings and discontinued project $12 million relates to inventory markdowns associated with closed stores which negatively impacted gross margin by 10 basis points in the quarter.
Year-to-date gross margin of 34.66% of sales represent a decrease of 36 basis points from the first 3 quarters of 2010.
In 2010 gross margin increased 18 basis points versus the first 9 months of 2009.
SG&amp;A for Q3 was 27.27% of sales which delevered 197 basis points.
The biggest driver was asset impairment and other cost associated with store closing and discontinued projects which totaled $324 million for the quarter.
SG&amp;A was also negatively impacted by $32 million related primarily to asset impairment of operating locations.
Together these items compared to $52 million in expense in last year's third quarter resulting in 256 basis points of expense deleveraged in Q3 this year.
Also we experienced approximately 19 basis points of deleverage related to investments made to improve customer experiences.
The expenses related to the continued build out of our customer relationship platform internal and external resource to complete and launch My Lowe's during this quarter and the store infrastructure upgrades.
During the quarter legal expense deleveraged 17 basis points as a result of current and present litigation matters.
In addition in Q3 we experienced 12 basis points of deleverage associated with rolling out new product differentiation sets.
These include end caps and drop zones which we expect to be in over 500 stores by year end updated lawn and garden sets in approximately 200 deep South locations and bath display and fashion plumbing.
While it is still early we are pleased with the results.
Leverage and proprietary credit in builders slightly offset these items.
We experienced 89 basis points of leverage associated with our proprietary credit program.
This leverage was driven by a combination of fewer losses as well as lower promotional financing.
In addition tenant costs were lower as the penetration of proprietary credit decreased roughly 270 basis points over last year's third quarter to 23.1% of sales.
For the quarter bonus expense leveraged 14 basis points due to a lower attainment levels versus planned.
Year-to-date SG&amp;A of 24.84% of sales and deleverage 81 basis points in the first 9 months of 2010.
Through 3 quarters the impact of asset impairment and other cost associated with store closings and discontinued projects negatively impacted SG&amp;A by 103 basis points.
Depreciation totaled $361 million or 3.05% of sales and leveraged 39 basis points compared to last year's third quarter.
Earnings before interest and taxes or operating margin decreased 257 basis points to 3.7% of sales.
Year-to-date operating margin of 6.98% represents a decrease of 89 basis points from 2010.
Store closing and asset impairment charges negatively impacted EBIT for the quarter and year-to-date by 266 and 106 basis points respectively.
We estimate that our proprietary credit value proposition positively impacted EBIT by 15 basis points for the quarter.
Interest expense at $91 million delevered 8 basis points as a percentage of sales.
For the quarter total expenses were 31.09% of sales and delevered 166 basis points.
Pretax earnings for the quarter were $352 million or 2.97% of sales.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 36.1%.
The rate was lower than expected due to the settlement of certain state tax matters.
For the quarter we reported earnings per share of $0.18.
Earnings per share impact of charges for store closing and discontinued projects was $0.17 for the quarter.
Now I'd like to comment on the balance sheet starting with assets.
Cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of the quarter was $675 million.
As Rick mentioned our third quarter inventory balance increased $447 million or 5.2% versus last year.
Inventory turnovers calculated by taking a trailing 4 quarters cost of sales with an average inventory for the last 5 quarters was 3.6 flat to Q3 2010.
Return on assets driven using a trailing 4 quarters earnings divided by average assets for the last 5 quarters decreased 31 basis points to 5.24%.
We estimate that the impact of charges for store closing and discontinued projects negatively impacted return on assets by 72 basis points.
Next I'd like to highlight a few items from the liabilities and shareholders' equity section of the balance sheet.
At the end of the quarter our accounts payable balance was $5.2 billion or 6% higher than last year.
Increase in accounts payable relates to the timing of purchases.
Our debt to equity ratio was 39.4% compared to 29.5% to Q3 last year.
At the end of the quarter lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 1.85x.
We estimate that without the impact of charges for store closing and discontinued projects lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR would have been 1.72x.
Return on invested capital measured using a trailing 4 quarters earnings plus tax adjusted interest divided by average debt and equity for the last 5 quarters decreased 18 basis points to 8.34%.
We estimate that the impact of charges for store closing and discontinued projects negatively impacted ROIC by 102 basis points.
I'd like to take a moment to update you on our thinking regarding capital structure.
We are increasing our previously stated lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR target from 1.8x to 2.25x resulting in approximately $3 billion of additional debt capacity which we expect to fully implement by the end of 2012.
We feel this modest increase in leverage appropriately balances liquidity with the opportunity to return value to shareholders while providing sufficient operating and strategic flexibility.
Our short-term credit ratings likely will be lowered one notch to A2/P2.
In addition we expect our long term ratings to be lowered to A-/A3.
However once implemented the revised capital structure should reduce our weighted average cost of capital by approximately 50 basis points.
We do not anticipate further adjustments to our lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR target for the foreseeable future.
In addition last month we successfully renewed our 5-year $1.75 billion revolving credit facility [indiscernible] in banks.
This credit facility serves as a backstop to our commercial paper program.
Now looking at the statement of cash flows.
Year-to-date cash flow from operations was $3.9 billion which is up 1.5% versus the first 9 months of 2010.
Cash used [indiscernible] $1.3 billion for the first 9 months of 2011 compared with $1 billion for the same period last year.
As a result year-to-date free cash flow is just over $2.6 billion.
During the quarter there were no share repurchases.
Looking ahead I'd like to address several of the items detailed on business outlook.
We expect fourth quarter total sales to increase by approximately 8% with comp sales estimated to be flat to positive 1%.
We estimate that the 53rd week will aid Q4 sales by approximately 7%.
Earnings before interest taxes for the fourth quarter are expected to decrease by approximately 50 basis points to last year as a percentage of sales.
This EBIT outlook includes approximately $10 billion or 10 basis points of additional expenses associated with the previously announced store closings.
Income tax rate is forecasted to be 37.6% for the quarter.
We expect earnings per share of $0.20 to $0.23 including additional expenses associated with previously announced store closings.
We estimate that the 53rd week will aid Q4 earnings per share by $0.02 to $0.03.
For 2011 we're estimating total sales to increase of 2% to 3% with comp sales declining by approximately 1%.
For the year we expect to open approximately 26 stores 2 of which are relocations and close 27 stores resulting in a net reduction of 3 stores.
We estimate the 53rd week will increase 2011 sales by roughly 1.5%.
For the year we are anticipating EBIT to decrease 80 to 90 basis points.
This includes approximately 80 basis points associated with store closings and discontinued projects.
For the year we expect the effective tax rate to be 37.4%.
The sales of these inputs should yield earnings per share of $1.37 to $1.40 which includes approximately $0.20 per share of store closing and discontinued project charges.
For the year we are forecasting cash flow from operation to be approximately $4 billion.
We've updated our capital expenditures forecast for 2011 and now believe that they will be between $1.9 billion and $2 billion with roughly $100 million funded by operating leases resulting in a cash capital expenditures between $1.8 billion and $1.9 billion.
This forecast is a bit higher than our plans for the year as we elected to accelerate our store innovation technology infrastructure investment originally planned to be completed in 2012 which will now be completed on the end of this year.
We will see a corresponding reduction in our 2012 capital plan.
I will share more details on the future CapEx plan at our Analyst Conference next month.
As a result we are forecasting free cash flow cash flow to $2.1 billion to $2.2 billion for the year.
Our outlook does contemplate share repurchases in the fourth quarter.
Regina we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Could you talk a little bit -- you talked about becoming a little less promotional a little more of this Everyday Low Price focus.
I know this is a quarter where you cycled price rationalization you started a year ago.
Can you talk a little bit about how we should think about the gross margin performance going forward and how you think -- how you're planning on managing competitively this transition of being a little bit less promotional in an environment that seems like wants promotional efforts? Sure Eric.
This is Bob Gfeller.
And as we look at being competitive every day there is price transparency in the marketplace for the customer.
And we've got to make sure therefore that whatever channel the customer desires to search products at Lowe's we're priced competitively.
In order to be priced competitively we've got to make sure that working with our vendors we have the lowest possible acquisition costs.
And in order to do that we really need to simplify the deal structures that we have with our vendors and part of simplifying the deal is structure is to become less promotional.
So as we are looking at our business and each business is going to be a little different certainly the big-ticket businesses that Bob talked to versus let's say the hardware business.
We are working through a product line review cadence of all of our businesses over the next 12 months utilizing our integrated planning and execution tools that I think we've talked about in the past with a more accelerated process to make sure that we're locally assorted correctly as Robert mentioned in every market and we're priced right appropriately to the competition in the market.
At the same time that we're working to tighten up our lines as it relates to stock product we are looking to expand our online assortments dramatically.
I think Robert referenced the 260 000 items on lowes.com by year end and we need to continue to grow that so that as the customer shops Lowe's again depending on the channels they shop they can take advantage of our growing flexible fulfillment capabilities.
And so as we look forward all of this is to improve our ROIC specifically as it relates to margin and timing.
The implications are there is going to be margin friction as we go forward into 2012 but we expect by the time we get to the end of next year we will have addressed 3/4 of our sales through this accelerated process and the margin benefit of the rationalized cost should more than offset the retail price pressure by the second half of next year.
So if I can drill into that a bit more how should we expect this to play out in terms of them -- the gross margin performance over the next 12 months and the relative market share performance that I know you referred to in your release this morning? So Eric this is Bob Hull.
I'll take the first part of the question which is the gross margin cadence and let others chime in as it relates to market share.
Specifically for fourth quarter I think you can think about gross margin performance in Q4 similar to Q3 largely driven by the same factors albeit some of the impacts of a different.
We expect inflation to be a little bit lower.
We expect EDLP price reduction impact to be a little bit greater.
In addition we'll take some markdowns as we work to start addressing underperforming inventory and SKU reduction.
As Bob mentioned there's probably some negative margin pressure in the first half of 2012 flipping to margin improvement beginning second half of '12 and beyond.
Eric this is Bob again Bob Gfeller.
I was just addressing market share.
Based on I think all the work that we have in the pipeline now we like what we're seeing in market shares it relates to some of our core businesses paint and tools nursery and building materials.
We've got a couple businesses that are in transition flooring and fashion bath.
I think some of the scripts referenced some significant resets as it relates to the departments in our store as well as the product in the store as well as online.
So we're looking to see advancement in sales and share on those 2 businesses.
The ones that are harboring now are cabinets and appliances and Millwork as I think Ricky mentioned.
They are big ticket.
And we have significantly depromotioned ourself on Millwork and we've got to work through that.
As it relates to appliances we are anticipating a solid fourth quarter on appliances.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Baker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> One question and then a follow-up.
First question is just on buybacks.
You increased your leverage and you're a little bit below your target leverage right now and you say you're going to buy back stock in the fourth quarter.
Just curious as to why there were no repurchases this quarter? Did it have to do with some of the announcements you made during the quarter so that closed your window? So that's my first question.
The second question has to do with some of the drop zones and the end caps that you talked about in your resetting.
Do you have an early read on what kind of improvement and excitement in your comps or however you want to measure it that that's having so far? Sure Mike.
As with the share repurchases there were no share repurchases in the third quarter because our lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR target until that time was 1.8.
We were concerned about bumping up against that target at that time.
Given that we revised our outlook to 2.25x we now will be active in the share repurchase department.
So really that was the largest driver of not being in the market for Q3.
Mike Bob Gfeller again.
As it relates to the resets the end cap and drop zone resets that Robert referenced 500 stores completed by first week of December.
Additionally we've updated our lawn and garden set in 200 of our stores particularly in the deep south.
And we were able to do it to catch the Fall Is For Planting season.
And then lastly I think Bob referenced to the fashion bath resets that are actually just rolling out as we speak.
I would tell you overall we are seeing positive results in the stores.
It's a little early because the sets are really just taking hold.
So our plan is that at our Analyst and Investor Conference in December we'll be able to share more detail with you as well as take you on a store tour during the conference so that you can actually see exactly what we've put in place.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with ISI.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions really revolving around the top line and you mentioned that credit helps 90 bps.
I'm just curious how much of that was traffic versus ticket? And also on the top line what you think inflation helped in the quarter? Sorry Greg.
So your first question was regarding the credit value 90 basis points how much was traffic and how much was ticket? Research Division</strong> Correct.
It is more towards traffic than ticket.
If you think about the value proposition to promotional financing which is $2.99 and above it was already geared towards big tickets.
The 5% off everyday was for those everyday purchases.
So of the 90 basis point impact 2/3 of that would have been from transactions.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the follow-up on the inflation and how that's impacting the comp.
So you said that it hurt gross margin.
I imagine it would have helped the top line as well maybe not in traditional lumber and copper but just in terms of pass-through on a lot of products where prices were going up this year.
Do you have any estimate of that? Yes.
It's basically a wash on comps Greg as we had inflation in build materials primarily roofing.
We did have cost inflation in paint but the margin pressure came because there was no retail inflation offset by lumber and plywood deflation in the quarter.
So the net impact of inflation on comps in Q3 was potentially 0 which is basically our forecast for Q4 as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And this is a follow-up I promise on credit.
It helped EBIT by 16 bps in the quarter and you gave us the mix on gross margin SG&amp;A.
Is that where you think we are now with run rate or does the credit program start to have some cost as we look at it into next year? I think it's probably close to 10-or-so basis points 10 to 20 at the top side.
Really I think funded by lower promotional financing.
One of the pass-through costs we have with our credit agreement with GE is we fund customer acquisition costs whether that's promotional financing which hits SG&amp;A or 5% of everyday which hits margins.
So basically what we're seeing is that the 5% off everyday is more productive than the promotional financing has been previously.
The next question comes from the line of Michael Lasser with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to get a sense for the way you're deriving the expected returns from some -- all the pricing actions that you have and will take and maybe one way we can get that is from the performance of the expanded list of benchmark items recently.
Have you seen any noticeable difference in that? Michael this is Bob Gfeller.
As it relates to the benchmark item list and the expansion that's actually -- we've been rolling that out over the past 30 days.
So we've got -- we need some more time to be able to read that.
Again trying to be price competitive across multiple channels.
Probably be able to share more of that with you in December.
Yes.
Michael this is Robert Niblock.
As Bob indicated I know I think it was on the second quarter conference call we talked about expanding our list of benchmark items.
Once Bob put his value improvement team in place in his merchandising organization they went back and they've taken another look at the list of benchmark items.
So we've been a little bit delayed in rolling that out versus where we anticipated.
So that's why kind of the delay that Bob talked about with being able to get a read on that.
Certainly as Bob described to you not only are we -- have got this move back to EDLP or if you want to call it EDLP plus because we know there are certain big-ticket categories that you're going to need to promote at certain times of the year.
And it's a cadence that we're going through now as Bob is going through his line review process to get the pricing right and really trying to balance the price and promotion cadence that we have and trying to make sure that we're doing it in a way where the customer is going to give us credit for that.
So Bob and his team are being very disciplined in that process.
As we go through it we're reading what we're seeing and we'll make necessary adjustments along the way.
But I think at this point it's probably just a little bit too early to be able to give you any feedback on where we stand.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
That's helpful.
And Robert it seems like the organization is going through a lot of change organizationally tactically maybe even strategically.
Do you think that there's been any distractions from some of the dynamics that have gone on maybe even weighed on the results over the last couple of quarters and as the changes settle in that could be a positive? Absolutely.
I think when you look at the significant amount of change that we put the organization through any time you have that level of change there's got to be some amount of disruption associated with that.
That was part of the reason that we tried to consolidate all of these changes and form together and execute them as quickly as we could be it the change in the span of control in the field organization the changes that were done here for example in Bob Gfeller's area in merchandising going ahead and getting the necessary store closings behind us the new approach to moving back to EDLP.
All those things we wanted to try and so that way we could then lay out the clear path forward for the organization get everyone refocused on where we're moving in the future.
And a lot of those changes as we've said in our comments are being driven by one where the customer's going where the market is going.
As Bob Gfeller talked about price transparency is becoming greater and greater every day.
And we think about other channels Internet and those out there that we compete against as well we've got to make sure that we're priced competitively every day across those channels so that long term we're going to be able to provide the value proposition that consumers are looking for no matter what channel they choose to shop on.
And that's also while we're trying to continue to expand the Internet for example and bring other ways in to bear to be able to meet the consumers' needs whether that's transaction projects in-home if they want to do a major project and having a representatives in their home whether it's buying online whether it's buying in store whether it's dealing with someone at our contact center to be able to ask a question to be able to transact for that day.
So we're trying to certainly approach it on a multi-channel cross-functional basis and have a great cadence to it.
But in the amount of changes certainly we understand that there were some disruption in the process and we think that we've now gotten most of that behind us.
Your next question comes from the line of Alan Rifkin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First question for Robert.
As a follow-up on the capital structure so with your decision to take your debt to EBITDA ratio up coupled with you guys taking the store count down for next year certainly implies more capital focused on both dividend increases as well as share buybacks.
Robert I guess my first question was is there an update to the payout ratio? And then philosophically with your weighted average cost of capital increasing by 50 basis points can you kind of just tell us how you would think about the stores that are cash flow positive today but are not yielding an adequate rate of return? I'll start and then Bob will jump in.
Alan I think on a weighted average cost the capital is actually decreasing 50 basis points not increasing with the new leverage targets.
As far as looking at -- we aren't making any other changes to dividend payout ratio at this time.
As far as looking at longer term how we think that this plays out with regard to cash flow that will be available for dividends for share repurchase those type of things I think we would plan on updating you on those items at our Analyst Conference when we get a little bit longer term view.
The purpose today which is to be able to signal that we have made that change and that we'll pool together and prepare for you what that looks like on a longer-term basis as we get to the analyst conference.
Bob did you want to add anything? Yes.
So Alan to remind you our payout ratio right now is targeted to be 30% to 35%.
As Robert indicated no plans to update that at this point in time.
The last part of your question dealt with cash flow negative stores.
As we told you again in Q2 we made 53 of those.
Basically since that time half of them have closed.
We continue to monitor the remaining 26 or so stores.
We do believe that they have future viability given actions we're taking and given the markets they are in and the expected turnaround in those markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one follow-up if I may.
I believe you said in the early commentary that you increased your holiday investment in inventory.
Can you maybe shed a little bit of color on that incremental investment inventory is much of it focused on the proprietary credit card program? Really it has Alan nothing to do with proprietary credit program.
That's just an opportunity for the customers to choose 5% off every day or promotional financing.
As Rick indicated in his comments the increase in inventory was due to some increases in holiday items specifically storm products as we think about gift-giving season.
That was the kind of the focus of our efforts to increase inventory for Q4.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First just on the paint business it was interesting you'd mentioned I think Rick or Bob you may have said that you had the cost increases but you weren't able to play it out at retail.
Just understanding maybe what's going on in that category from a competitive standpoint or why you weren't able to pass it through? And then secondly Bob given all the changes you guys are making to the business to your closing stores investing in the merchandising what are your latest thoughts on the longer-term sensitivity of operating margins to comps? I think in the past you've said if you could comp one you maybe keep even margins flat and then increase from 20 for every 100 basis points beyond that.
Is that still where we're at? Does it get better than that because of the changes you've made? Is it worst than that? What can you tell us? Peter this as Bob Gfeller.
I'll just hit the paint question very quickly.
So in the paint business in the last quarter we had a good quarter a lot of new product innovation from both Olympic and Valspar our 2 primary brands.
As it relates to the cost inflation the TiO2 the main raw material continues to inflate and it probably will continue to inflate.
It's not that we weren't able to move prices up but we just couldn't move them up enough to cover the inflation.
It's not that we won't continue to test that as we move into the fourth quarter and into next year so we'll see how much of that we can get back as we go forward.
And Peter on the second part of your question.
At this point in time yes I think it's fair to assume that guidance we provided in the past [indiscernible] change in comp it's 20 basis points of EBIT impact.
And then we will update you on our thinking long term at the Analyst Conference next month.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On the top line I was just curious with the 27 store closures were they in the comp base? Did you see any -- was there any benefit from having those closures? And then similarly on the pre-Halloween snowstorm I think your quarter ends on Saturday was there any lift out of that as well? Chris as it relates to store closings they were not in a comp base.
However we did see sales from the closed-store locations transfer to comp store locations.
So the positive impact of that was offset by cannibalization from new stores that opened over the prior 4 quarters.
So really no net impact of transfer for closed stores relative to cannibalization from new stores.
Lastly our quarter actually ends on Friday.
So none of that would have showed up in our Q3.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a good follow-on to that so on a 2-year basis you were guiding to an acceleration here in the fourth quarter and I was just curious if you could lay out the factors that drove that guidance? Sure.
We've got some specific actions we're taking.
We did have value prop Q4 last year for example.
We gave you the impact of Q3.
We talked about a number of the changes that were taking place in market as it relates to product differentiation.
We've indicated we're seeing positive results to date so we expect more of the same in the fourth quarter.
So really the change in trajectory is up as a matter of some of the specific actions we're taking and starting to see benefits of those actions.
And Chris this is Robert.
Also keep in mind of the comments I made about the amount of disruption that we put the organization through in the third quarter this year.
We've now got that behind us and got everyone refocused on the business so I think that helps as well.
Your final question will come from the line of Colin McGranahan with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I may have missed it but did you go through any of the market share data by category? You typically say how many categories you gain share in and then the overall trends for the quarter.
And then I have a follow-up for Bob Hull.
Colin this is Bob Gfeller.
I can -- just top line for you.
So in the quarter on a rolling 4-quarter basis dollar share we were up an 8 we were down an 8 and flat in one.
On a unit share we were up in 11 down in 6 and flat in one.
And overall we held ground if you look at total Lowe's.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
That's helpful.
And then Bob just on the 2.25 lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR was I correct in hearing that you said there'll be no more adjustments after that? So you're looking at that as kind of a perpetuity optimal capital structure? And then I know you're going to talk more about it at the analyst meeting but how quickly do you think you can get there? Should we assume you get there pretty much relatively early next year so add an incremental $3 billion to maybe an underlying go-forward rate of $2 billion in share repurchases for a total of around $5 billion next year? So you are correct that I said that we don't foresee any adjustment to the 2.25 in the foreseeable future and what I would call more of a practical cost of capital versus an optimal.
You can engineer a higher -- a lower debt rating and a lower cost of capital but we don't think that's practical in this environment to balance liquidity and flexibility.
From a cadence perspective we believe it's going to be by the year-end 2012.
So we're not going to raise $3 billion immediately.
I think that's on a cadence approach between now and the end of 2012.
And yes obviously more to come on long-term share repurchases next month at the Analyst Conference.
Thanks for your continued interest in Lowe's.
We look forward to speaking with you again when we report our fourth quarter results on February 27.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Lowe's Companies Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management's expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
Those risks are described in the company's earnings release and in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Also during this call management will be using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other information about them posted on Lowe's Investor Relations website under Corporate Information and Investor Documents.
Hosting today's conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock Chairman President and CEO; Mr.
Robert Gfeller Executive Vice President of Merchandising; and Mr.
Bob Hull Executive Vice President and CFO.
I will now turn the program over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in Lowe's.
Following my remarks Bob Gfeller will review our operational performance and Bob Hull will review our financial results in detail.
But first let me share a summary of our fourth quarter performance and tell you how we're thinking about 2012.
Sales for the fourth quarter increased 11% including the 53rd week while comparable store sales were positive 3.4%.
Comps were positive in all regions of the U.S.
as well as in 13 of 16 product categories.
Comp transactions increased 3.8% in the fourth quarter and comp average ticket decreased 0.4%.
While gross margin contracted largely in line with our expectation we had good operating expense control and delivered earnings per share of $0.26 exceeding our guidance for the quarter.
Delivering on our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders in the fourth quarter we repurchased $500 million or 20.7 million shares and paid $177 million in dividends.
Overall I'm encouraged by the progress we made in 2011 toward delivering better customer experiences and transforming our business to drive long-term sales growth and increased profitability and shareholder value.
I would like to thank our hardworking employees for their ongoing dedication and customer focus.
At our Analyst and Investor Conference in December we outlined how we intend to build upon our core strengths and strategically invest in ways that will better position Lowe's for success.
Among our top strategic priorities we accelerated our investment in technology and store infrastructure in 2011 and increased our efforts to improve the customer experience.
I'll share some specifics momentarily.
We also refined our pricing and merchandising strategies and processes actions that Bob Gfeller will review in a few minutes.
With these enhancements in place we are well positioned to drive stronger comparable store sales growth and expanded operation -- operating margins in 2012.
So first let me address our commitment to delivering better experiences that will differentiate Lowe's.
As we've previously discussed we strive to be more than a provider of home improvement products.
Our vision is to be relevant at each step of the home improvement process and to deliver an experience that is simple and seamless across all selling channels.
In 2011 we undertook took the largest single-year investment in IT in-store systems infrastructure in Lowe's' history.
We accelerated investments necessary to begin addressing the issues with slow response times and outdated systems.
In each of these investments we focused on the critical infrastructure needed to support the strategic changes we're rolling out over the next 36 months.
This meant bandwidth upgrades of 4x to 8x prior speeds and upgrading our in-store wireless network to handle video downloads for employee selling tools and customer Wi-Fi usage.
And it meant rolling out iPhones to replace existing functionality and to enable the ability to tender a sale at any place in the store.
These upgrades paved the way for a simple and seamless customer experience with Lowe's.
Recognizing that customers are increasingly shopping across channels we are focused on providing a seamless multi-channel experience making it convenient for them wherever and whenever they choose to engage with Lowe's.
We equipped our contact center associates with better tools and greater access to information as well as the ability to close a sale when interacting with customers.
We evolved our on-site selling model providing specialists with the appropriate tools to help customers visualize a project provide a realtime quote and close a sale on-site.
We also made incremental improvements to our e-commerce platform fueling a 22% increase in traffic and a 35% increase in conversion rates resulting in a 70% increase in e-commerce sales year-over-year and an 1 100 basis point increase in online unit share.
At the end of the fourth quarter we had over 250 000 items available online and our mobile app which launched this past August is one of the highest-rated retail apps in the Apple Store.
We also began shipping items directly to customers from select stores and regional distribution centers in addition to our dedicated Internet warehouse.
This means with more items available for partial shipment than ever before we can provide faster delivery and reduce cost to fulfill orders.
We're also offering preprinted labels for return parcel shipments free of charge a simple and convenient option for customers and a competitive advantage in the home improvement industry.
And finally this past October we launched MyLowe's a revolutionary new online tool that is unique in the home improvement industry and makes managing maintaining and improving homes simpler than it's ever been.
This is a very relevant and personalized offering where customers can create home profiles; save room dimensions and paint colors; organize owners' manuals and product warranties; create shopping to-do and wish lists for future projects; set recurring reminders for common maintenance items; and store purchase history from all sales channels.
And our road map for additional MyLowe's capabilities will grow and evolve over time based on customer and employee feedback.
In 2012 we'll continue to capitalize on the benefits of these changes and the momentum they're creating and we will leverage additional new offerings.
For example in December we announced the acquisition of ATG Stores an online retailer of home improvement and lifestyle products.
The acquisition is an extension of our commitment to providing customers with flexibility simplicity and value.
Initially Lowe's and ATG will capitalize on complementary strengths and employees' expertise by sharing best practices for online marketing and merchandising.
Then we'll take advantage of obvious synergies like interchange and transportation rates and cross-merchandising.
The acquisition of ATG Stores will also allow us to more than double the number of items on lowes.com in 2012.
We've also recently announced the channel exclusive partnership with house.com a leading online platform for home remodeling providing inspiration information advice and social tools for homeowners and home improvement professionals.
On May 2012 House's inspirational image gallery articles and designer expertise will be integrated into the MyLowe's experience allowing customers to upload inspirational collateral to their home improvement projects stored in their MyLowe's account.
We'll also fine-tune existing MyLowe's capabilities while providing customers mobile access to their MyLowe's accounts and the ability to share and collaborate with Lowe's associates.
We remain focused on cost-effective and efficient operations.
The management team continues to review how we operate on a cross-functional basis to ensure a consistent and connected execution while also evaluating our organizational structure to streamline decision-making and ensure that we have the right people in the right roles throughout the organization.
In 2011 we worked through the rightsizing actions needed to become more nimble in our field-based store operations and human resources organizations.
A few weeks ago we announced internally a planned reduction in the size of our staff at our U.S.
headquarters through a voluntary separation program.
We must continue to invest in key initiatives to improve the customer experience and stay on the leading edge as a home-improvement company.
Doing so requires that we decrease operating cost in other areas.
We built our corporate infrastructure to support a single-channel business that was opening over 100 stores per year.
Today we are growing differently and our seamless multi-channel strategy requires a different infrastructure.
We are making tough decisions in order to improve profitability and meet our 10% operating margin goal by 2015.
That goal assumed among other things 130 basis points of SG&amp;A leverage of which 15 to 20 basis points will come from rightsizing actions.
I'm confident that the team is making the necessary decisions within the parameters of our long-term strategy.
While these decisions caused some level of disruption we are willing to accept short-term disruption for long-term gain.
We are also in the process of changing our culture to move faster on calculated risk in order to improve execution and support changing customer expectations.
We're refining our test-and-learn capabilities to more quickly and cost effectively try new things see what works and then test the winners more broadly before rolling them out chain-wide.
Economic news during the final months of 2011 and so far in 2012 has been somewhat positive creating a bit of relative optimism in the market.
However we know that future uncertainties are still weighing heavily on the consumer.
As we look at 2012 we see nothing on the horizon that would dramatically improve home values or the employment situation.
Our data [ph] for 2012 is focused on what we can control which is delivering better customer experiences.
We're focused on leveraging the investments we've made in technology and the capabilities we are building to improve local market assorting and product presentation.
We're focused on leveraging tools that allow employees to access more information and more products than ever before and we're focused on leveraging our employees' passion for taking care of customers.
Thank you for your interest.
Bob? Thanks Robert and good morning everyone.
During my time today I will provide some detail around our fourth quarter performance to help give you a sense of the opportunities we leveraged and how we drove the business through our strategies and actions.
I will also provide an update on the progress we're making on the initiatives we shared with you during our Analyst and Investor Conference in December: value improvement product differentiation and creating the foundation for a more seamless and simple customer experience.
So first on the fourth quarter.
Our approach was to start stronger than last year by driving excitement throughout November leading to the key Black Friday and Cyber Monday events in select products like tools holiday decorations and appliances.
We wanted the customer to see Lowe's as a destination for compelling values and groundbreaking product innovations and we successfully drove strong comp sales performance in these categories.
One innovative and exclusive product we featured was the new Kobalt double-drive screwdriver which delivered 35% higher sales than last year's featured item and at a higher margin rate.
Another example of innovation that worked in the fourth quarter was LED decorative Christmas lights where we enhanced our assortment to meet customer demand for more durable lighting.
The customer is willing to spend more for the energy savings and longer life and we are capitalizing on this same value proposition to drive strong comps within the interior light bulb category as consumers are quickly transitioning to longer-life LED bulbs.
Within appliances we more heavily invested in inventory this year to support our aggressive approach to the holiday season.
We capitalized on our broad assortment of major appliances from key national brand partners and drove double-digit comps in the month of November and comps for the quarter trended with the company average.
Compelling values in flooring throughout the quarter drove comp sales at the company average as well.
We featured a competitive $397 whole-house laminate flooring installation program and we also drove increases in ceramic tile sales with our investment in job lawn inventory in the third quarter very sharp item pricing and product innovations.
Likewise as customers in the north and south continued to repair damage after Hurricane Irene we were prepared for strong sales of roofing lumber and other core categories with contractor-backed pricing and job-locked quantities.
For the fourth quarter we delivered double-digit comp sales in lumber building materials and builders' hardware.
Additionally throughout the quarter but particularly important during the Black Friday and Cyber Monday events we used a high number of available SKUs and our investment in an enhanced online experience to drive sales.
Supporting our online selection our enhanced Flexible Fulfillment capabilities allowed us to say yes to customers more often.
Given uncertainties surrounding the competitive environment in the fourth quarter we forecasted a flat to 1% comp.
This level of growth was similar to third quarter results and actually implied a slight improvement on a multiyear basis.
In fact we successfully executed our plans and drove significantly higher comps than forecasted in tools appliances building materials lumber flooring fashion electrical paint and nursery.
Our Commercial business also outperformed the total company in the fourth quarter and fiscal year driven by our programs targeted to commercial customers including contractor packs government sales and Commercial Account Specialists.
Notably we estimate that we drove roughly 150 basis points of comp growth by responding effectively to the unseasonably warm weather experienced across the country.
This weather spurred strong demand in products used in outdoor projects such as fencing paint builders' hardware and outdoor lighting.
Enough in fact to overcome unfavorable impacts in cold weather products including seasonal heating ice melt and snow blowers.
We also continued to drive comp sales through our 5%-off everyday offer on Lowe's private-label credit card purchases which were introduced last year.
This value proposition was our first step toward reemphasizing Everyday Low Prices.
One last comment about our fourth quarter performance.
As noted during the third quarter call inventory had increased 5% over the prior year due to holiday inventory builds and more aggressive preparation for winter storms and the expansion of some product lines.
We successfully sold through the majority of the holiday merchandise and we finished 2011 with better-than-expected inventory levels.
Now I'd like to update you on the progress we are making with some of the other initiatives we shared with you during our Analyst and Investor Conference including value improvement product differentiation and creating the foundation for a more seamless and simple customer experience.
Value improvement is focused on ensuring everyday low pricing built on a foundation of everyday low cost and tailored market assorting.
This foundation requires us to simplify our agreements with vendors obtain their best cost the first time they quote us and better determine the SKUs to carry in each and every market we serve.
The heavy lifting of value improvement occurs during the line review process which we have enhanced to provide more analysis upfront to assist our merchants in selecting the products we will carry and driving to the lowest first-cost from vendors.
Additionally within these line reviews we continue to refine the mix of private brands for each category providing us another means to generate value and simplify the shopping experience for customers.
At the end of fiscal 2011 we had completed 8% of the product line reviews as planned.
We are pleased with the progress we have made and for the products covered in those reviews we have seen reductions in cost and SKUs per store while increasing SKUs to be made available online.
Our teams are adjusting to the accelerated line review process and effectively using the new tools for better analysis.
We completed this work -- when completed this work will get the right products in the right market at the right cost allowing us to compete at the right price in an increasingly price-transparent market.
In addition some of these savings from SKU reduction will be reinvested into more inventory depth of our best-selling items.
Not surprisingly our vendors have experienced a greater level of stress from this process.
Most say it's tough but fair and they have better visibility to the decision criteria for winning or losing business.
We have established a vendor advisory council to provide a forum to hear vendor concerns and address them effectively.
Our goal is to be their best business partner in the home improvement industry and to reduce our cost and theirs for promotions resets and other allowances.
We expect to finish line reviews representing over half of our sales volume in the first half of the year and for nearly all of our product lines by the end of 2012.
As we move into the second half of 2012 our customers and employees will see the in-store and online execution of a majority of these product line reviews which will allow us to begin benefiting from the hard work done during the prior months.
These benefits will carry on into 2013.
As for private brands we ended 2011 with over 16% private branded sales penetration.
For the products already covered in the new line review process we have increased private branded penetration in most categories and we expect to finish 2012 with at least 17% penetration.
That said we remain committed to supporting meaningful national brands in all categories where our customers believe that they provide great quality and value.
With that understanding here is the performance benefit we expect to harvest in 2012 from our value improvement efforts.
First being priced competitively every day carrying the best selection of SKUs for each market and enhancing our private branded offerings is expected to drive close rates and comp growth.
We are closely monitoring quarterly pricing metrics to assess how customers perceive our value proposition and we are pleased with our progress to date.
Further as the reductions to unit cost flow through our cost of goods sold and as we continue to increase our mix of higher-margin private branded products we should start to overcome the gross margin friction associated with our return to Everyday Low Pricing by the middle of the year and actually experience margin rate benefit from our value improvement efforts for the full year.
Finally through SKU reduction we expect to reduce our inventory by roughly $400 million by the end of the year.
Next I'd like to discuss our progress on product differentiation which will firmly establish Lowe's as the place to find the newest and most relevant products for home improvement.
We're working more closely than ever with our vendor partners on new product development and new display techniques.
During the fourth quarter we completed resetting roughly 500 stores with the reconfigured customer service desks end caps drop zones and new lower racking we shared with some of you during our store tour at the December Analyst and Investor Conference.
These resets highlight innovation value national and private brands and creative idea solutions.
The initial read on performance has been positive with success across all areas we reset.
Now moving forward we will reset over 900 additional stores in 2012 with the elements that work best in each market.
We are using our learnings from the previously reset stores to tweak the concept and maximize our return on investment.
We embarked on these resets based on customer feedback and we will continue to survey customers to measure their perceptions of Lowe's' uniqueness and new product vitality.
And by improving on these attributes we expect these resets to drive more repeat traffic to our stores ultimately driving comp growth.
Finally I'd like to cover the benefits we expect in 2012 from our foundational efforts supporting the more seamless and simple customer experience that Robert covered with you earlier.
We expect MyLowe's to consolidate spend into Lowe's that is currently spread across many competitors.
While we are building momentum in developing deeper relationships with our customers this consolidation of spend will be longer term in nature.
So we do not expect a material sales benefit from MyLowe's in 2012.
On the other hand we expect many of our other foundational efforts to help us close more sales in 2012.
For instance first we will more immediately provide the information a customer is looking for through iPhone technology in the aisles Wi-Fi access and enhanced visual aids throughout the store.
Second we will provide enhanced product availability through an endless aisle of products on lowes.com which can be fulfilled quickly and efficiently.
Third new on-site selling solutions will assist our Project Specialists and Commercial Account Specialists in closing sales at the customers' home or workplace.
And finally we will further leverage our new contact center capabilities.
Customers can now call us for product information product service assistance project troubleshooting and to actually make purchases over the phone.
I am proud of the progress we are making to drive these initiatives and excited about our ability to create differentiated customer experience.
Thanks for your interest in Lowe's.
Bob? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
Sales for the fourth quarter were $11.6 billion which represents an 11% increase over last year's fourth quarter.
Lowe's' fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to the end of January.
Therefore 2011 included an extra week in the fourth quarter for a total of 14 weeks and 53 weeks for the year.
Sales for the extra week were $766 million which contributed 7.3% to sales growth versus Q4 2010.
In Q4 total customer account increased by 11.4% while total average ticket decreased 0.4% to $61.11.
Comp sales were 3.4% for the quarter which is above our guidance of flat to 1%.
Our higher-than-expected performance was driven by sales of seasonal items continued strength of our proprietary credit value proposition and favorable weather.
We estimate that the favorable weather aided Q4 comps by approximately 150 basis points.
We estimate that our value -- our proprietary credit value proposition which offers customers a choice of 5% off every day or promotional financing positively impacted Q4 comps by 110 basis points.
Also we estimate that sales related to sustained rebuilding in markets impacted by Hurricane Irene positively impacted Q4 comps by 40 basis points.
For the quarter comp transactions increased 3.8% while comp average ticket decreased 0.4%.
Strong sales and lower ticket transactions the impact of the proprietary credit value proposition and holiday promotions on larger-ticket transactions all contributed to mixing the average ticket down in the quarter.
Looking at monthly trends comps were positive in all 3 months with 0.2% in November 3.2% in December and 7% in January.
With regard to product categories the categories that performed above average in the fourth quarter included building materials lumber nursery tools paint and fashion electrical.
Hardware rough plumbing appliances and flooring performed at approximately the overall corporate average.
For the year total sales of $50.2 billion were an increase of 2.9%.
The extra week contributed 1.6% of the increase while average square footage was up approximately 1%.
Comp sales were essentially flat to the year.
For 2011 comp transactions increased 0.4% while comp average ticket decreased 0.4%.
For the year the categories that performed above average included building materials rough plumbing tools fashion electrical paint and hardware.
Home fashion storage and cleaning seasonal leaving and flooring performed at approximately the overall corporate average.
Gross margin for the quarter was 34.22% of sales a decrease of 133 basis points from last year's fourth quarter.
The gross margin decline was a result of several factors.
As Bob noted we had strong seasonal sales in appliances tools and holiday decorations.
Strong promotions contributed to a 28-basis point gross margin decline in the quarter.
Our proprietary credit value proposition negatively impacted gross margin by 27 basis points.
This was more than offset by leverage in tender and other costs associated with our proprietary credit program.
I will provide the SG&amp;A EBIT impacts in a moment.
Also inflation hurt gross margin by 21 basis points driven by paint building materials rough plumbing and fashion electrical.
As we've discussed we are working to lessen our promotional activity and reemphasize Everyday Low Prices.
Actions taken to date negatively impacted gross margin in Q4 by approximately 20 basis points.
Lastly the impact of higher fuel prices negatively impacted gross margin by approximately 20 basis points.
For the year gross margin of 34.56% represents a decrease of 58 basis points from fiscal 2010.
SG&amp;A for Q4 was 25.88% of sales which leveraged 76 basis points.
The biggest driver of leverage in the quarter was bonus expense which leveraged 41 basis points as a result of lower attainment levels for incentive compensation.
We experienced 23 basis points of leverage associated with our proprietary credit program.
This leverage was driven by a combination of lower promotional financing money cost and operational expenses.
In addition tender costs were lower as the penetration of proprietary credit increased roughly 350 basis points over last year's fourth quarter to 23.3% of sales.
Also in the quarter property taxes other salaries and legal expenses all leveraged approximately 15 basis points.
These items were slightly offset by de-leverage in a couple of areas.
We experienced 22 basis points of de-leverage related to investments made to improve customer experiences.
The expenses related to the continued build-out of our customer relationship platform internal and external resources to further develop MyLowe's during the quarter and store infrastructure upgrades.
Also in the quarter we reported cost associated with previously announced store closing discontinued projects and long-life asset impairments which totaled $53 million for the quarter.
This compares with $38 million for similar items in last year's fourth quarter resulting in 10 basis points of expense de-leveraged in Q4 this year.
For the year SG&amp;A was 25.08% of sales and de-leveraged 48 basis points to 2010.
Depreciation at 3.29% of sales totaled $383 million and leveraged 45 basis points compared with last year's fourth quarter.
Earnings before interest and taxes decreased 12 basis points to 5.05% of sales.
We estimate that our proprietary credit value proposition positively impacted EBIT by 38 basis points for the quarter as leverage in proprietary credit bank card and other expenses more than offset the negative gross margin impact.
For the year EBIT of 6.53% represents a decrease of 76 basis points from 2010.
Charges for previously announced store closing discontinued projects and long-life asset impairments totaled $523 million which negatively impacted EBIT by 104 basis points for the year.
Interest expense at $102 million for the quarter de-leveraged 6 basis points as a percentage of sales.
The increase in interest was attributable to an almost $1.1 billion increase in total debt relative to last year.
For the quarter total expenses were 30.05% sales and leveraged 115 basis points.
We estimate that the extra week contributed approximately 50 and 10 basis points of expense leverage for the quarter and year respectively.
Pretax earnings for the quarter were 4.17% of sales.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 33.6% versus 37.5% in Q4 last year.
The lower tax rate was a result of federal and state tax credits.
For the year the effective tax rate was 36.7% compared to 37.7% for 2010.
Net earnings of $322 million increased 13% versus last year.
Earnings per share of $0.26 for the quarter exceeded our guidance of $0.20 to $0.23 and increased 23.8% versus last year's $0.21.
I wanted to call out several discrete EPS impacts for the quarter.
We estimate that the extra week and the lower tax rate aided Q4 by approximately $0.05 and $0.01 per share respectively.
These items were offset somewhat by $0.03 per share negative impact associated with charges for previously announced store closings discontinued projects and long-life asset impairments.
For fiscal 2011 earnings per share of $1.43 were up slightly versus 2010.
Now to a few items on the balance sheet starting with assets.
Cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of the quarter was slightly more than $1 billion.
Our ending inventory balance of $8.4 billion was up slightly versus last year.
Inventory turnover calculated by taking a trailing 4 quarters cost of sales divided by average inventories for the last 5 quarters was 3.72 an increase of 9 basis points.
Return on assets determined using a trailing 4 quarters earnings divided by average assets for the last 5 quarters decreased 43 basis points to 5.37%.
We estimate that the impact of charges for previously announced store closings discontinued projects and long-life asset impairment negatively impacted return on assets by 93 basis points.
Moving on to the liability section of the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with accounts payable of $4.4 billion which was flat to last year.
In the fourth quarter we issued $1 billion of unsecured bonds in 2 tranches $500 million of 10-year notes with a 3.8% interest rate and a $500 million 30-year issue with a 5 1/8% interest rate.
As a result our total debt balance was $7.6 billion.
Our debt to equity ratio was 46.1% compared with 36.3% at the end of 2010.
At the end of the fourth quarter lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 2.03x.
Return on invested capital measured using a trailing 4 quarters earnings plus tax adjusted interest divided by average debt and equity for the last 5 quarters decreased 33 basis points for the quarter to 8.67%.
We estimate that the impact of charges for previously announced store closings discontinued projects and long-life asset impairments negatively impacted ROIC by 133 basis points.
Now looking at the statement of cash flows.
For the year cash flow from operations was over $4.3 billion which was an increase of $497 million or 12.9% over 2010.
In 2011 cash used in property acquired increased $500 million to just over $1.8 billion.
The increase was driven by investments in information technology and store systems infrastructure.
This resulted in free cash flow of $2.5 billion which is flat to 2010.
During the quarter we repurchased 20.7 million shares at an average price of $24.10 for a total repurchase amount of $500 million.
For the year we repurchased 118 million shares for a total of $2.9 billion.
We have $4.5 billion remaining under our share repurchase authorization.
Looking ahead I'd like to address several of the items detailed in Lowe's' business outlook.
As I noted earlier our fiscal 2011 included an extra week which contributed 1.6% to sales growth and approximately $0.05 per share.
Our 2012 growth rates will be negatively impacted by -- in comparing 52 weeks with last year's 53 weeks.
In 2012 we expect a total sales increase of 1% to 2%.
On a 52-to-52-week basis sales increase would be approximately 3%.
We're estimating 2012 comp sales to be 1% to 3% and we expect to open approximately 10 stores resulting in a slight increase in square footage.
For the fiscal year we are anticipating an EBIT increase of approximately 100 basis points.
EBIT growth will come from modest gross margin improvement in comparisons to 2011's nonoperating charges.
Robert shared with you that we have initiated a voluntary separation program.
While there will be some negative expense pressure in Q1 related to severance our 2012 outlook includes minimal impact from this as any reduction in wages will be almost completely offset by severance.
We will see the savings from this program beginning in 2013.
Also I wanted to share some cost pressures that we had included in our 2012 plan.
While we leverage bonus expense in 2011 this creates a 20-basis point headwind in 2012 as we plan for target bonus payouts.
In addition we will continue to make investments to improve customer experiences and expect those to negatively impact SG&amp;A by approximately 15 basis points in 2012.
We expect depreciation expense of about $1.5 billion.
The effective tax rate is expected to be 38.1%.
The higher rate relative to 2011 is expected to reduce earnings per share by approximately $0.04.
The sum of these inputs should yield earnings per share of $1.75 to $1.85 which represents an increase of 22% to 29% over 2011.
Now looking at our guidance relative to first call while the annual consensus falls within our range specific to Q1 there is a calendar week shift as a result of 2011's 53rd week.
This year's first quarter will include one less week of winter and one more week of spring than last year which impacts the spread across the quarters.
For the year we're forecasting cash flows from operations to be approximately $4.2 billion.
Our capital plan for 2012 is approximately $1.4 billion with roughly $100 million funded by operating leases resulting in cash capital expenditures of approximately $1.3 billion.
This results in estimated free cash flow of $2.9 billion for 2012 which represents a 16% increase over 2011.
Our guidance assumes approximately $4.5 billion in share repurchases for 2012 spread evenly across the 4 quarters.
We have a $550 million debt maturity in September 2012 and our plan assumes that we migrate towards a 2.25x lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR by the end of the year.
We will update you on specifics regarding future debt offerings at the appropriate time.
Regina we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from the line of David Schick with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned store resets are having a positive impact.
Could you give some detail on how those stores performed versus control group or the non-touch stores? David this is Bob Gfeller.
I can give you some color on that.
The 500 stores that we have reset in 2011 are showing positive results across the store in terms of all the things that we have reset the end caps the drop zones particularly the innovation end caps and the most productive area in the store is actually the contractor pack area as we close the year.
Dave this is Bob Hull just to follow back up.
Just remember those stores weren’t completely reset until December.
So the earliest sets we have a very positive read but the most recent ones towards the end of the quarter still early.
The other point is the inventory used for those end caps was largely in-line inventory and we're just making dedicated buys which should continue to improve our performance for those end caps for 2012.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
Could you update us on the number of MyLowe's accounts out there? Yes this is Robert.
We're up to about 3 000 unique swipes out there on -- I mean 3 million unique swipes.
I'm sorry 3 million unique swipes now on MyLowe's.
And we have a goal we really believe with the additional functionality that we're adding during the year our intent is to be to 10 million by the end of 2012.
The next question comes from the line of David Gober with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just one in terms of the scaling of guidance throughout the year and I know obviously you're not giving quarterly guidance at this point.
But I'm just wondering if you could speak broadly about how that phasing stacks up particularly given the upwards slope of 2011 results.
Would you expect the first half to show maybe stronger sales trends and weaker margins and the opposite to be true in the second half? I think as it relates to sales the week shift does have an impact and I suggest you may go take a look at 2006 to get a sense how that might play out relative to 2005.
2005 was the last time we had a 53-week fiscal year.
As relates to sales I think if you recall in Q1 last year we had a very tough spring a very bad April.
So we've got easier comparisons coming as it relates to spring.
Conversely we've got tougher comparisons now in fourth quarter as we cycle the mild weather that we had in Q4 '11.
However I don't see much disparity in comps across the 4 quarters of the year as relates to margin.
Margin should be -- if you exclude the nonoperating charges as well as the impact of the 53rd week I think we'll see some slight gross margin pressure in the first half of the year and some margin improvement which should guide what happens with EBIT margin for the year and by quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just a follow-up for Robert if I could.
You mentioned some of the data points in terms of the overall economy and housing that we've seen over the last few months.
And I wondered as you guys think about the outlook for the next year or 2 what are the key metrics that you're watching? And is there any way to really tell within the numbers that you've seen recently whether consumers are thinking about their homes differently or thinking about investment in their homes differently than they have over the last couple of years? David I'll start and then I'll have Greg maybe follow on with any thoughts that he has.
When you think about it we did see an uptick in consumers' willingness we think to spend in the fourth quarter.
So in addition to the favorable weather we saw a bigger impact than we would normally see just with weather alone.
So we do think that the consumer is more willing to spend.
As we said I think overall there's still going to be downward pressure on home prices in 2012 because of the foreclosure overhang.
But what I think you are seeing is that with a lot of the other media news stories that are out there the value of your home isn't the top news story every day.
So it's kind of moved to the back burner.
So I do think that it's helping as a little bit more favorable data on the economy a little bit more favorable data from an employment situation is easing consumers' fear of the value of their home and what the future portrays for that and opening up their willingness to spend on some on those projects around the homes.
Unless something comes to kind of knock their knees out from under them we do feel like they're going to be more willing and more engaged on spending around the home.
So Greg? And to layer onto that David it’s a balance we’re watching between the effective economic pressures on homeowners and renters today and especially on the part of homeowners especially on the part of young homeowners.
A continual mindset that wrapped around their home as a place that they still feel is special and they want to invest in.
We keep checking for any kind of breakage in that mindset and we're not seeing it we're seeing a continual devotion to the home.
And as Robert said as the economic pressures tend to mitigate as we look out over the next 3 to 4 years we know that we have that underpinning of psychographics that is very much in our industry's favor.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin McGranahan with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> First question for Bob Gfeller.
Bob it sounds like you've done about 8% of the product line reviews so far.
You mentioned the reduction in cost but you also mentioned some vendor stress which is certainly understandable and something we've kind of been picking up in some of our checks as well.
Can you expand on that a little bit and tell us as you've gotten started on this one what has played out as you expected maybe what's played out a little differently? On average what kind of a cost reduction are you seeing in first cost? And then what's some of the feedback been that prompted you to put this vendor council together? Sure Colin.
I'll hit some of those.
So we're 8% through the line review process at the end of the year.
We're on schedule and on track.
Some key learnings number one I think our merchants are utilizing the technology tools that we talked to you about in December very well.
They're using them as great input into the line review process.
As it relates to vendor learning the vendor advisory council we actually formed last year in anticipation of wanting to again be our vendors' best business partner in home improvement.
So it was not a reactive move it was a proactive move.
I think what the vendors are telling us is that we are approaching this in a firm and fair way.
They're getting a lot of feedback on the line review process going in and also coming out whether they win or don't win the business and we're going to continue to monitor that as we go through the rest of this year.
And then the last thing I would say is on the cost reductions.
We set targets they were kind of initial targets.
We're on target particularly against the SKU reduction goals that we've set.
And as we've said we're going to continue to monitor them as we go through the first half but so far so good.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a follow-up question for Robert.
In terms of the voluntary corporate severance maybe you could talk a little bit more about that.
What prompted that in the big picture? And why that approach? I think we've seen that at some other retailers end up resulting in higher longer tenure and higher-level people taking those buyouts.
What would your expectation be? But maybe just a little bit more color generally on that approach and why you chose to go down that way.
Yes a little bit on the why.
Colin if you think about it in the past year everything we've talked about really the past 18 months with Wall Street and our new strategic mission Lowe's experience of the future.
If you think about it the overwhelming majority of the people if you ask them at Lowe's they feel like they're working for a different company today than they were a year or 18 months ago.
Some people are there they're onboard absolutely supportive with the direction that we're headed in.
For others they've operated a different way in the past and we changed the rules in the middle of the game for them.
So for those that may be struggling a little bit with the direction of which we're heading as an organization this gives them another viable option.
So that hopefully at the end of the day we're left with a much higher percentage of people that are onboard and support the strategies of where we're going.
So that's the reason we did it on a voluntary basis and we think it'll be successful.
The next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to start out by asking you about the composition of your gross margin increase for the year.
You had a lot of moving pieces that you detailed here in the fourth quarter.
If you could talk specifically to the impact that you think proprietary credit will have on gross margin and any other line items that you think will stand out would be very helpful.
Matt this is Bob.
So specifically you're looking for color on 2012 outlook? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Yes.
So the way we're thinking about it Matt gross margin dropped 58 basis points in 2011.
Roughly speaking we're looking to make up about half of that in 2012.
We've launched the consumer aspect of the value proposition in April and the Commercial in July.
So we'll have some negative pressure gross margin pressure in the first half of the year as we cycle those.
Bob Gfeller described to you the cadence of the line review process that price reductions early will create some pressure before we get the full impact of the cost reductions.
Therefore we'll see margin improvement close to flat in the second quarter begin increase as the year progresses and have probably healthy gross margin expansion in the back half of the year especially as we cycle some of the declines we saw Q3 this year roughly 100 basis points Q4 this year 133 basis points.
Research Division</strong> And as part of that it sounds like some of the one-off promotional pressure that we saw for example here in the fourth quarter you quantified that at 28 basis points you would expect that would more or less abate? That should abate yes.
That should be either be flat to a positive.
And then the other piece I would mention is roughly the 100-basis-point increase in private label products should help as well.
Research Division</strong> My second question is also a financial question kind of a detailed one.
I believe you guided to depreciation of $1.5 billion which would be up a bit year-on-year and depreciation was really declining in dollar terms for the past 2 years.
So any color you could give us on that would be terrific.
Sure Matt.
So we spent a lot of time talking to you about the level and breadth of investments in technology both corporate systems for services for the Integrated Planning and Execution tool that Bob's and the merchant team are using to go through the line review process MyLowe's investments in lowes.com et cetera with additional investments required in 2012.
So what we have there is a pretty high concentration of investments in a short-lived asset 3- to 5-year depreciable asset.
So that's really what's happening.
It's causing depreciation to be up slightly in 2012 relative to 2011.
Research Division</strong> If you take a look at the multi-year outlook is that essentially the peak for depreciation dollars as you see it? It should be which is why when we gave the long-term outlook in 2015 it declines because we cycled through the kind of jump in '12.
Your next question comes from the line of John Zolidis with Buckingham Research.
Just to make sure that we have clear on the guidance for operating margins.
For 2011 we should be using a base of 7.5 from which you expect to get 100 basis points of improvement? No we guided based on GAAP figures.
So it's the GAAP guidance versus the GAAP reported figure.
So the reported figure of 6.53 it’d be the 100 basis points off of that.
Okay.
And then secondly I wonder if you could comment on the online business.
You reported a 70% increase in revenues online.
I assume that includes the benefit of the acquisition that you closed on in December.
But even excluding that my guess is that the online business is growing significantly faster than the store business.
Where do you think that can be looking out 5 years as a percentage of your total business? And do you see any impact on the gross margin or the profitability from the shift from store business to online? So specific to 2011's 70% increase it had 0 impact from acquisition of ATG Stores.
That was all based on more items online more multi-channel sales.
So think about a still high percentage of our online sales are buy-online-pickup-in-store so it's really leveraging all the channels to serve the customers.
As we think about growing that business going forward we have a target of roughly double the number of SKUs online in 2012 relative to 2011.
ATG is certainly is going to help us.
We bought a very interesting technology company that has a lot of good things going that has roughly 3.5 million items online a number of which we'll make available on lowes.com in 2012.
Longer term if you think about our outlook at the Analyst Conference we gave you a roughly 3.5% comp for a 4-year average with about 1/3 of that coming outside of store.
So online still is going to be huge growth opportunities beyond the 70% growth in 2011.
Your final question will come from the line of Alan Rifkin with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Bob you mentioned that with respect to the line reviews 8% were done and you're looking for all of them to essentially be completed by the end of the year.
Is there any quantification of what those line reviews aided your EBIT margin in the fourth quarter? Alan it's Bob.
The completion of those line reviews had no impact in the EBIT margin in the fourth quarter.
Alan so if you think about it there's a process to actually go through the work up front to evaluate the vendor offerings and compare that to where we are today it's more of a planning process.
The subsequent quarters when those get rolled out to the store where the customer has an opportunity to vote on whether they like what they see or not so we'll start seeing the impact of the 8% completed in Q4 in the first quarter of '12.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So question for Bob Hull as a follow-up.
So as you go through the rest of the line reviews in the rest of the year what is the benefit to your 2012 earnings that you anticipate from the line reviews for the full year? That's the roughly 30 basis points of gross margin improvement for the year that we spoke of.
Negative pressure in the first half of the year and then recovery in the second half of the year obviously paying big dividends in 2013 and beyond as we've got the process largely behind us.
Alan I would just add -- I'm sorry let me add one other thing on getting the right inventory in the right stores and managing that more effectively that's that $400 million inventory reduction by the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question if I can for Robert Niblock.
With respect to the VSP Robert we certainly applaud you guys taking these steps at this point.
Was curious on why the timing now? Does it come hand-in-hand with your reduction in new stores that you anticipate over the next 4 years? Well certainly Alan as I talked about in my comments our structure was built to support a high-growth model and we're going to be growing differently in the future.
But really as I was responding to Colin and over the past year the past 18 months we have dramatically changed what our expectations are of leaders throughout the organization.
And while a majority of the people are very much on board there are some that are very uncomfortable.
They're not going to raise their heads and say I'm uncomfortable with this.
This gives them a viable option in order to if they're not comfortable with the direction we're headed to be able to give them a viable option for a path forward for them if they're not comfortable with the change we've made from the leadership.
So we felt that was the best way to be able to approach the issue.
So that at the end of the day we have a much higher percentage of people that are on board because we've got to have the organization onboard in order to realize where we're trying to go with the organization.
So...
Research Division</strong> Okay and as a follow-up Robert if memory serves me right I believe that election actually expires today.
Any commentary relative to your plan whether you're seeing fewer or more people take up the package? I would say that obviously a lot of them will come in the last day which is normally the case with these.
But we've been very pleased with the response we've seen versus what we had anticipated from the group at this point.
And once again thanks for your continued interest in Lowe's.
We look forward to speaking with you again when we report our first quarter 2012 results on May 21.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Lowe's Companies First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management's expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
Those risks are described in the company's earnings release and in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Also during this call management will be using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other information about them posted on Lowe's Investor Relations website under Investor Documents.
Hosting today's conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock Chairman President and CEO; Mr.
Bob Gfeller Customer Experience Design Executive; and Mr.
Bob Hull Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the program over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in Lowe's.
Following my remarks Bob Gfeller will review our operational performance and Bob Hull will review our financial results in detail.
But first let me provide a summary of our first quarter performance and share some strategic updates.
Sales for the first quarter increased 7.9% including the impact of the week shift while comparable store sales were positive 2.6%.
As expected comp transactions increased 2.6% in the first quarter and comp average ticket was flat to last year.
For our fourth quarter call we provided our annual comp guidance of 1% to 3% and expected all quarters in 2012 to fall within that range.
That guidance was predicated on transaction growth and for the first quarter assumed better weather conditions year-over-year.
We are pleased with the solid comp transaction growth in the quarter and continue to see stabilization in comp average ticket.
Geographically all divisions of the U.S.
delivered positive comps in the quarter with our strongest performance in the North division.
While we capitalized on better-than-anticipated weather during most of the quarter demand for seasonal products slowed toward the end.
Gross margin contracted but the year-over-year impact was significantly less than the third and fourth quarters of 2011 and we believe we are now beyond the peak of gross margin declines.
We continue to effectively control operating expenses in the quarter and delivered earnings per share of $0.43 which included approximately $0.01 of severance and other costs associated with the voluntary separation program.
Delivering on our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders in the first quarter we repurchased $1.75 billion or 58 million shares and paid $174 million in dividends.
We are building on our core strengths with focus areas like value improvement and product differentiation and Bob Gfeller is going to share proof points with you momentarily.
But we are also strategically investing in ways that will better position Lowe's for success.
Those investments both capital and expense continue in 2012.
At the core of our multiyear strategy is our commitment to deliver better customer experiences.
This is more than providing great customer service having the right product and being in stock.
Those are fundamental to retail.
Delivering better experiences is about being relevant to the consumer at each step of the home improvement process from inspiration and planning through finishing and enjoyment and it's executing simply and seamlessly across selling channels.
That's what will differentiate us from the competition.
Understanding that a seamless customer experience starts from behind the scenes we began evaluating our organizational structure.
In fact we've spent a significant amount of time over the past 6 months designing high-level future state processes.
To support our efforts we announced a new organizational design in mid-April to align functions based on either the creation or the delivery of customer experiences and we'll be measuring each function's success through that lens.
Greg Bridgeford will lead the customer experience organization as Chief Customer Officer and Rick Damron will lead the operations organization as Chief Operating Officer.
We're transforming the way we go to market.
And over the next year we'll be clarifying decision rights redesigning processes to improve efficiency and effectiveness and ensuring that throughout the organization we have the right people who are committed to the organization in the right roles.
It's a phased approach and while the focus is on process efficiency and effectiveness we do expect to realize cost reductions.
We're making tough decisions in order to improve profitability and meet our 10% operating margin goal by 2015.
That goal assumed among other things 130 basis points of SG&amp;A leverage.
A streamlined organization together with the voluntary separation program is expected to result in 15 to 20 basis points of SG&amp;A leverage by 2015.
As I've said before we're willing to accept short-term disruption for long-term gain because differentiating on experience is a multiyear strategy.
Now let me conclude my remarks with some thoughts on the consumer.
We continue to maintain a cautious view of the housing and macro demand environment and our guidance reflects that view.
While there has been some acceleration in consumer spending recently it was aided by unseasonably warm weather.
And while there has been improvement in housing turnover the increase was off a small base.
We believe future uncertainties are still weighing heavily on the consumer.
For instance there is no meaningful area of strength in personal income data.
So while spending has been strong up to this point in the year it will likely level off without real income growth.
Likewise there remains to be seen whether housing has really begun to turn.
While prices for non-distressed properties appear to have stabilized high level of distressed properties remain a concern.
Finally presidential election debates with the economy again as a primary topic could impact consumer sentiment and how consumers view the road to recovery.
We're focused on what we can control making further progress with our focus areas value improvement and product differentiation and delivering better customer experiences.
I would like to express my gratitude to our employees for their continued dedication and customer focus.
Thanks again for your interest.
Bob? Thanks Robert and good morning everyone.
During my time today I will describe the internal and external drivers of our first quarter performance highlighting the 3 internal sources of 2012 growth: first leveraging the foundation for a more simple and seamless customer experience; second product differentiation; and third our progress on value improvement.
Our first quarter comp sales performance was consistent with our expectation at the beginning of the year.
For the quarter 11 of 15 product categories comped positively showing continued strength from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Tools and outdoor power equipment seasonal living paint and lumber led our performance with comps at least twice the company average for the quarter.
In particular a number of products produced double-digit comps demonstrating that we were well prepared for the spring season.
These products were riding and walk behind mowers lawn chemicals mulch and stone trimmers edgers and augers handheld power tools patio accessories cleaners and exterior paints stains and sealers.
Within indoor products solid single-digit comp performance in  interior paints and applicators ceiling fans lightbulbs window treatments stock laminate flooring and fasteners was offset by anticipated softer sales in appliances cabinets and countertops and Millwork.
The comp sales drag in these categories was a result of our decision to run fewer percent off promotions and those we did run were at lower discounts than last year.
Additionally while stable we believe recovery in these and other large-ticket categories continues to be constrained.
Looking at how the quarter unfolded in the first 9 weeks we drove a U.S.
comp sales increase of roughly 5% through strong sales of products associated with maintaining and beautifying the outdoor living space.
We were well prepared for the warmer spring weather with sharp values and a coordinated presentation of outdoor products across channels.
Consistent with strong outdoor product performance sales were strongest in our North division which was the area of the country that experienced the most significant year-over-year improvement in weather.
For the first 9 weeks comps were roughly 450 basis points above the company average in that division and all regions of the North division comped positively.
U.S.
comps for the last 4 weeks of the quarter declined by 3%.
This decline was driven by a pull forward of seasonal sales into the first part of the quarter most evident in the north division and a more pronounced reduction towards the end of the quarter in promotions relative to last year as we further emphasize everyday low pricing.
Of particular strength in the first quarter was our Commercial business which experienced comp growth that was well above the company average especially in tickets above $500.
Commercial customers continued to respond well to our 5% off every day Lowe's proprietary credit value proposition vendor demonstration and promotional events and expanded contractor pack offerings.
Enhancing first quarter comp sales growth were our efforts to deliver a more simple and seamless omni-channel experience.
For instance Flexible Fulfillment is the capability we implemented last fall which allows us to deliver 96% of lowes.com parcel orders from the most efficient location directly to customers within one day using standard shipping.
In the first quarter Flexible Fulfillment contributed to lowes.com sales growth of nearly 50%.
Another element of this enhanced omni-channel experience is our in-home mobile office suite of tools for our exterior projects specialists which has allowed them to increase the number of in-home appointments by 20% a week.
This increase in productivity has contributed to our exterior project sales growth in the quarter.
And lastly in the first quarter is we also generated incremental sales through our contact centers.
Prior to last year once contact center associates successfully address customer questions they had to redirect customers to the store or to our website to make their purchases.
Now they can tender the sale over the phone when it's most convenient for the customer.
Taken together we estimate that these first steps on our journey to a more simple and seamless omni-channel experience contributed to our first quarter comp sales growth.
We believe that they will contribute even more as consumers associate Lowe's with great experiences and as our employees gain more experience with these tools.
Last year we also introduced 2 focus areas that build on our core strengths.
One was product differentiation in which nearly 1/3 of our stores were reset with a concept that highlights innovation brands value and Lowe's creative ideas; creates flexible merchandising space that we can use to showcase seasonally relevant products; and provides more open sight lines to navigate and shop a Lowe's store.
Based on our preliminary results we are rolling this concept to another approximately 900 stores in 2012 over 100 of which were reset in the first quarter.
Within the approximately 500 initial locations that were completed in 2011 the areas we reset are driving sales with more items per ticket evidence that this new format is effective at grabbing customers' attention with clear statements of value and innovation and with project merchandising to build the basket.
As we roll product differentiation to more stores we are excited about 2 opportunities to improve our approach.
First beginning in 2012 the 6 innovation end caps in each store feature more products that are new to Lowe's.
Last year the products on these end caps were mostly pulled out of line to showcase them for the customer.
This year innovative products sold first or exclusively at Lowe's are given priority to appear on this oceanfront property.
Second we continued to learn from our initial rollout adjusting which types of stores received the most extensive sets based on our experience so far.
For the approximately 900 resets in 2012 we will roll out at least 3 versions based on each market's dynamics.
This is test and learn in action.
Beyond value and innovation the product differentiation concept is also helping to develop brands by highlighting some of our leading national brands like Husqvarna STAINMASTER General Electric Trane Zep Valspar and DEWALT.
This concept is also drawing customers' attention to the value provided by our private brands like Kobalt Utilitech Blue Hawk and allen+roth.
Our private brands offer great style function and quality at a very affordable price.
In fact during the first quarter our allen+roth home decor brand expanded its footprint into furniture-styled bath vanities solid surface and quartz countertops laminate flooring and a new wood closet organization program further driving profitable sales through private brand development.
Value improvement is our other focus area.
Its purpose is to ensure everyday low pricing built on a foundation of everyday low cost and tailored market assorting.
As I mentioned on the fourth quarter call this foundation requires us to simplify our agreements with vendors obtain their best cost the first time they quote us and better determine the SKUs to carry in each and every market we serve.
Value improvement starts with the line review process which we have enhanced to provide more analysis upfront to assist our merchants in selecting the products we will carry and driving to the lowest first cost from vendors.
Additionally within these line reviews we continue to refine the mix of national and private brands for each category.
It's important to distinguish between what occurs in the product line review and the post-review store reset.
At the completion of the product line review we have the blueprint indicating what items we will carry and from which vendors we will buy them.
Before the disciplined decisions from the line reviews become reality in our stores we must begin the process of clearing the old products and resetting our stores with the new products signage and displays.
While we had initially expected a 90-day lag between when a line review is finalized and when the associated changes are completed in our stores we are finding that the average lag is closer to 120 days.
So here's a quick snapshot of where we stand at the end of the first quarter.
Since we began the accelerated line review process last November we have addressed about 1/3 of our lines and total revenue but have completed only a small percentage of the associated resets.
By the end of the second quarter we expect to have completed about half of our line reviews representing approximately half of our revenue and to have completed about 15% of the associated resets.
As a result in the second quarter we will increasingly realize the lower cost of goods and sales benefits of assortments that are better tailored to each store's market and that are sourced at lower unit costs.
Some of these lower unit costs will fund targeted price reductions to ensure we are within a reasonable range of the most relevant competitor for each category and part of the inventory reductions will be reinvested in deeper inventory of project completers and priority items.
The customer and financial benefits of value improvement will start to accrue in earnest in the second half of 2012 and carry into 2013.
By the end of this fiscal year we anticipate having completed line reviews that represent over 90% of sales just below our expectations at the beginning of the year.
We are confident that gross margin comparisons will continue to improve as cost reductions catch up with price reductions.
Finally I would like to share some of what we've learned so far from the value improvement initiative.
First we are emphasizing quality of line reviews over quantity.
So while our merchants are delivering SKU and cost reductions we have slowed down the process a bit to ensure the proper hand offs from line review completion to store reset.
Second through our vendor advisory council we continue to listen to candid feedback related to topics inside the line reviews like the value channel exclusivity and the balance between national and private brands.
The feedback is ongoing and we are working relentlessly to be our vendors' best partner.
We will continue to monitor our progress and fine tune the value improvement process as we learn more just as we are with the product differentiation and our efforts to develop simple and seamless customer experiences.
While we have set a clear course we will be ready to adjust our direction in response to ever-changing customer needs and expectations and with the evolution of tools available to improve customer experiences.
On a more personal note I'd like to express my excitement about my new role as Customer Experience Design Executive.
In this position I will lead a team that will envision the consistent experience that customers expect as they interact with Lowe's across selling channels.
The ultimate goal of experience design is to differentiate Lowe's from the competition by consistently delivering simple and seamless home improvement experiences for both customers and employees.
I am confident the customer experience design team will accomplish this goal through intense cross-functional collaboration.
Thanks for your interest in Lowe's.
Bob? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
Sales for the first quarter were $13.2 billion which represents a 7.9% increase over last year's first quarter.
There's a week shift in fiscal 2012 as a result of 2011's 53rd week.
Essentially this year's first quarter included one less week of winter and one more week of spring than last year.
We estimate that the week shift aided Q1 sales by $514 million which contributed 4.2% of the sales increase.
Comp sales were positive 2.6% for the quarter driven by comp transactions.
Comp average ticket was flat to last year.
Looking at monthly trends.
Comps were positive 2.4% in February positive 8% in March and negative 3.1% in April.
As you heard from Robert we were able to capitalize on better weather from most of the quarter but demand for seasonal products slowed toward the end.
In addition April comps were negatively impacted by our decision to reduce the promotional intensity for big-ticket categories.
We estimate that our proprietary credit value proposition which offers customers the choice of 5% off every day or promotional financing aided Q1 comps by approximately 130 basis points.
With regard to product categories the categories that performed above average in the first quarter include tools and outdoor power equipment seasonal living paint lumber building materials hardware fashion electrical and Lawn &amp; Garden.
Rough plumbing flooring and home fashion storage and cleaning performed at approximately the overall corporate average.
Appliances cabinets and countertops and Millwork underperformed the company average and negatively impacted comp sales by approximately 120 basis points.
The remaining 1.1% sales increase was primarily attributable to new stores.
Gross margin for the quarter was 34.7% of sales and decreased 74 basis points from last year's first quarter.
The gross margin decline was a result of several factors.
Our proprietary credit value proposition negatively impacted gross margin by 39 basis points.
This was more than offset by leverage in tender and other costs associated with our proprietary credit program.
I will provide the SG&amp;A and EBIT impacts in a moment.
As we've discussed we are working to lessen our promotional activity and reemphasize Everyday Low Prices.
Actions taken to date negatively impacted gross margin in Q1 by approximately 15 basis points.
Also inflation hurt gross margin by 12 basis points driven by paint treated lumber and building materials.
Lastly higher fuel prices relative to last year negatively impacted gross margin in the quarter.
SG&amp;A for Q1 was 24.65% of sales which leveraged 95 basis points.
We experienced 63 basis points of leverage associated with our proprietary credit program.
This leverage was driven by a combination of fewer losses lower promotional financing and higher portfolio income.
In addition tender costs were lower as the penetration of proprietary credit increased roughly 540 basis points over last year's first quarter to 22.8% of sales.
In the quarter store payroll leveraged 23 basis points largely driven by the higher sales associated with the week shift.
Also advertising expense leveraged 21 basis points due to the timing of spend this year versus last year and higher sales.
As we discussed on our fourth quarter call the company announced a voluntary separation program or VSP.
In Q1 we recorded $17 million in expense associated with the program causing 13 basis points of SG&amp;A deleverage.
Depreciation for the quarter was $370 million which was 2.81% of sales and leveraged 24 basis points compared to last year's first quarter due to the sales increase.
Earnings before interest and taxes increased 45 basis points to 7.24% of sales.
We estimate that the week shift helped Q1 EBIT by 53 basis points.
Interest expense at $103 million for the quarter deleveraged 6 basis points to last year as a percentage of sales as a result of higher debt levels.
For the quarter total expenses were 28.24% of sales and leveraged 113 basis points.
Pretax earnings for the quarter were 6.46% of sales.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 38% versus 37.7% for Q1 last year.
Earnings per share of $0.43 for the quarter represented 26.5% increase over last year's $0.34.
We estimate that the week shift aided Q1 by $0.05 per share while the VSP reduced earnings per share by $0.01.
Now to a few items in the balance sheet starting with assets.
Cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of the quarter was $3.1 billion.
The higher cash balance relates to the $2 billion bond deal executed in mid-April.
Our first quarter inventory balance of $9.8 billion increased $125 million or 1.3% over Q1 last year.
Inventory turnover calculated by taking the trailing 4-quarter cost of sales divided by average inventory for the last 5 quarters was 3.68% an increase of 18 basis points over Q1 2011.
Return on assets determined using a trailing 4 quarters earnings divided by average assets for the last 5 quarters decreased 18 basis points to 5.45%.
We estimate that the impact of charges for last year store closings discontinued projects and long-lived asset impairments negatively impacted return on assets by 88 basis points.
Moving on to the liability section of the balance sheet.
Accounts payable of $7 billion represents a 4.2% increase over Q1 last year.
The increase in accounts payable is greater than our 1.3% increase in inventory which relates to the timing of purchases in the quarter versus last year.
In the first quarter we issued $2 billion of unsecured bonds.
We took advantage of treasury rates near all-time lows resulting in a lowest 5- 10- and 30-year debt in our portfolio.
The coupons were 1 5/8% 3.12% and 4.65% respectively.
This issuance lowered our average cost of debt by 41 basis points from 5.22% to 4.81% and extended the average maturity from 14 to 14.5 years.
At the end of the first quarter lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 2.35x.
Adjusting for the impact of charges for last year's store closings discontinued projects and long-lived asset impairments lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 2.15x.
Return on invested capital measured using a trailing 4 quarters earnings plus tax adjusted interest divided by average debt and equity for the last 5 quarters increased 6 basis points for the quarter to 8.97%.
We estimate that the impact of charges for last year's store closings discontinued projects and long-lived asset impairments negatively impacted ROIC by 125 basis points.
Now looking at the statement of cash flows.
Cash flow from operations was almost $2.5 billion which was up slightly over Q1 2011.
Cash used in property acquired was $337 million up $24 million over last year due to an increase in information technology spending versus Q1 last year.
As a result first quarter free cash flow of $2.1 billion was up modestly versus last year.
During the quarter we repurchased 58 million shares at an average price of $30.20 for a total repurchase of $1.75 billion.
We have $2.75 billion remaining under the share repurchase authorization.
The remaining $39 million of the $1.789 billion shown on the statement of cash flows as repurchase of common stock relates to the shares repurchased from employees to satisfy statutory tax withholding liabilities upon investing of restricted stock awards.
Looking ahead I'd like to address several of the items detailed in Lowe's business outlook.
As I noted earlier our fiscal 2011 included an extra week so fiscal 2012 growth rates will be negatively impacted by comparing 52 weeks with last year's 53 weeks.
In 2012 we expect a total sales increase of 1% to 2%.
On a 52 versus 52 week basis total sales increase would be approximate 3%.
We're estimating 2012 comp sales to be positive 1% to 3% and we expect to open approximately 10 stores resulting in a slight increase in square footage.
As we've said before our sales expectations are predicated on growth in customer transactions.
For the fiscal year we are anticipating an EBIT increase of approximately 90 basis points.
We expect depreciation expense of about $1.5 billion.
The effective tax rate is expected to be 37.9%.
The sum of these inputs should yield earnings per share of $1.73 to $1.83 which represents an increase of 21% to 28% over 2011.
Our EBIT and EPS estimates are slightly lower than the outlook we've shared on our fourth quarter call primarily as a result of the voluntary separation program.
In addition to the $17 million of expense incurred in Q1 associated with the VSP we expect to record an additional $16 million in the second quarter for a total expected severance cost associated with the VSP of $33 million for the year.
For the year we are forecasting cash flows from operation to be approximately $4 million.
As Bob Gfeller discussed we are focusing on quality versus quantity during the line review process.
As such we are reducing our expectations for inventory reduction in 2012 from $400 million to $200 million which is driving the expected reduction in cash flow from operations versus our prior estimate.
Our capital forecast for 2012 is approximately $1.4 billion with roughly $100 million funded by operating leases resulting in cash capital expenditures of approximately $1.3 billion.
This results in estimated free cash flow of $2.7 billion for 2012.
Our guidance assumes approximately 2.75 billion in additional share repurchases for a total 4.5 billion for the year.
We have a $550 million debt maturity in September 2012.
For the year we expect that lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR will be at or below 2.25x.
Christy we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Chris Horvers of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you quantify how much the reduced promotions impacted same-store sales overall? And was this isolated to April or did you see anything in February and March? And related to that as you think about the journey to EDLP how are promotional levels -- what was the cadence of them last year? Do you think 1Q last year was more promotional than the second quarter? And then any commentary in relation to the fourth quarter as well? Chris this is Bob Hull.
I'll start and let Bob Gfeller chime in as necessary.
As it relates to the promotional impact on cost in Q1 as I said in my comments we estimate that the impact for appliances cabinets and countertops and Millwork was approximately 120 basis points for the quarter.
It was more pronounced in April which was closer to like 200 basis points in April for those categories.
As relates to the promotional intensity in Q1 last year we were going up against Cash for Appliances in Q1 2010.
Therefore there were some incremental promotions that we ran in Q1 last year that we elected not to repeat in Q1 this year driving the impact in appliances specifically.
And Chris this is Bob Gfeller.
Just to add a little bit more color on Bob's comments.
As we look at promotions going forward inside of the value improvement program a couple of points.
The 5% value proposition on our private label credit cards is critical in all of our thinking because it's value every day to our customer.
So that's helping us to deep promote and rationalize promotions.
Also as we look at major holidays and key categories we've always said that we are retailers we've got to make sure that we're sharp certain categories at certain times and certain holidays.
And specifically for the first quarter of the year we did have 30% fewer promotions in the first quarter versus 2011.
A significant number of those were advertised last year and as Bob says that many of them were in the big-ticket categories specifically in appliances where we were deeper discounting in 2011 than we were in this first quarter.
Chris I'd to add and this is Greg Bridgeford.
As we look ahead to the second quarter we're taking a very analytical look at the balance and the mix of our promotional activity and specifically where we're putting the focus on elements of the marketing mix like search like print like radios and make sure that we're balancing out the opportunity for driving tickets and transactions specifically as it relates to flooring appliances cabinets and countertops and Millwork.
Research Division</strong> So to follow up on that.
Did you -- on 4Q 4Q seems like a promotional quarter as well.
So does that add given the comparison the weather lift in 4Q last year does it add any risk to the thought that you can have consistent comps of 1% to 3% across the year? Chris we feel like that as we said last quarter that all 4 quarters this year will fall in the 1% to 3% range.
We do have some pressure in the fourth quarter relative to the roughly 150 basis point weather favorable impact we experienced in Q4 '11.
However we still expect that to be in the 1% to 3% range although it may be the lowest comping quarter of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Budd Bugatch of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of them.
One on a 13-week comparable I know that because of the calendar shifts you gave us ended March 4.
But if we looked at the 13 weeks ended April 27 versus last year's April 29 do you have what that number would have been in a comp basis to get an idea versus competition? So 2 thoughts.
One as we think about the 53rd week last year to be true we had 14 weeks of comparable sales performance in Q4 last year the 14th week in Q4 comped against week 1 of 2011 which means weeks 1 through 13 this year comped against weeks 2 through 14 last year.
So there is truly a comp versus comp.
As we think about the calendar impact if we modeled our comp performance assuming the 13th versus 13th the other way comps would have been about 60 basis points higher than we reported.
So it would have been roughly 3.2 versus the 2.6.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And on Bob Gfeller's comments he gave a language I'm not sure I heard before.
It said and I think it was within a reasonable range of the nearest competitor for pricing.
Can you maybe you flesh that out and tell us what that means exactly or is there a way to think about that? Sure Budd.
This is Bob.
The reason why I'm using that phraseology is because our lens is wider as we think about our competitive set as we think about being an omni-channel company.
So traditionally we would look at price competitiveness just against our principal retail competitor.
But as we look at the value improvement program holistically we have a wider lens.
So really depending on the category depending on the product we will be priced competitively based on what is a solid offer for the customer for that category against the relative competitors.
So I think I had gotten a question before we are certainly looking at Amazon and certainly looking at other retailers that play in categories that we also compete in and although they may not be core to those competitors.
So it's just a broader lens as we look at being price competitive.
One last note for you though is we have as it relates to our principal competitor looking at our price competitiveness as we said before we've expanded the number of items we're looking at across our store and we are very confident that we are priced competitively against that specific competitor.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last quick one.
Can you give us the big-ticket versus small-ticket comps that I think you've done in the past I didn't hear that Bob.
The over 500 under 50 I think it was.
Yes.
Budd I don't have that available.
We can certainly call you back.
Just responding to your question regarding what comps would have been the spread across the months would have been much flatter than the reported comps.
On a restated 13 weeks they would have been roughly 5% for February 3% for March and flat for April.
So less lumpy than the plus 2% plus 8% minus 3% that we reported.
Your next question comes from the line of Alan Rifkin of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First question for Bob Hull.
Can you maybe if possible shed some color on the performance of the southern markets where one would probably expect that the weather did not have as profound an effect from month to month relative to the corporate average? As Bob Gfeller spoke the Northern markets had the best performance early in the quarter and it trailed off most at the end of the quarter.
The Southern markets were the most consistent performing in the quarter typically right at the company average for most of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question for Robert Niblock.
On the VSP program it sounds like the charges being a little bit greater than your anticipation implies that more people took the program than what you originally had thought.
First if you can confirm or deny that.
And then maybe just a little bit more color as to where specifically you saw most of the people take this program what divisions and categories were they in? Yes Alan.
As far as -- we haven't built anything into our guidance for the year for VSP.
So we'd wait and see what the impact of that was and treat it accordingly.
As far as the magnitude of it I think we had there's 526 people that took VSPs.
As you know it was really a program for the corporate office structure.
And I think as we look through the number of people who took it the years for which they took it I'd say I'm pleased with the impact and what we accomplished with the VSP.
It was pretty broad based across the organization where we saw people taking the VSP for a number of different reasons people may have been in different life stages and provided them opportunity to do something different.
The other thing was in the last 18 months we've changed dramatically our expectations of leaders in the organization.
So it really is a different company that they're working for today than it was 18 months ago let's say so that did provide people an opportunity if they wanted to move on because they weren't fully committed let's say to the direction we were heading.
So as we looked across the organization the people that took it really pleased with the outcome really pleased with the way that it shaped up.
And as far as getting into pretty broad based across the organization I don't really want to get into particular areas as to where people took the VSP or not but overall pleased with the results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question if I may.
With the respect to ATG I remember you folks said that you were going to kind of lay off of them for the first 90 days.
Now that we've kind of passed that mark what changes if any are you making to the integration of ATG with your brick-and-mortar presence? Alan this is Greg Bridgeford.
ATG is -- our primary focus with ATG is really to enable the processes that they have fine-tuned through the years to quickly add items and make it into meaningful assortments for consumers to be able to leverage those processes over to Lowe's core models for the purpose of expanding the reach and the impact of lowes.com.
So if you look at that that's working well and we are adding items at a faster rate.
We're learning their processes.
We're keeping it very focused.
Our interaction with ATG as you said there's some firewalls around it.
And we're also in the interim we've been able to add ATG product to our SOS offering Special Order Sales offering within the Lowe's stores today.
So 2 focus areas keeping a pretty tight rein on any distractions for ATG which operates its business model very effectively and getting the leverage we expected.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lasser of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can you provide a little more clarity on what is driving the delay of the implementation of the line reviews by 30 days? And are you seeing any greater disruption from the process that's impacting your sales than you previously anticipated? Michael this is Bob Gfeller.
I'll give you a little more color around that.
So we've got the accelerated line review process which is the upfront piece that the merchants are working them through and then of course we've got to execute the resets.
We always knew this was going to be test and learn as we kind of move through because we're taking on such a challenge.
And the 2 key learnings are really from a capacity of just workload from the number of line reviews we're going through we've talked about almost 400 line reviews completed by really the end of this year.
From a quality standpoint number one is we wanted to slow it down to make sure we're utilizing the analytics as best as we possibly can from the merchandising standpoint number one.
So that's the integrated planning execution tool the efficient item assorting tool number one.
Number 2 is there's a lot of work to be done when you move to reset.
And because we are making significant changes in SKU assortment in price progression and in some cases presentation our learnings to date have been let's make sure that those handoffs are smooth as possible so that we make sure that the presentation to the customer is as good as we expected to be when we model the results on paper.
So the reason why we're hedging a little bit more into the lead time is because as we move through these first few resets as we're just kind of learning as we're going and we want to make sure that we give it enough time so that the results are what we anticipate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you think about the quarter how long do you think the impact from demand being pulled forward is going to influence your comp trend? And was the impact from being less promotional about what you expected for the quarter? So Michael this is Bob Hull.
The comp impact from the big tickets was about as we expected.
Deep promoting we expected that's less of an impact in Q2.
As I mentioned earlier there's a lot of promotional activity in appliances specifically to Q1.
So less impact of deep promoting in Q2.
As it relates to the pull forward we estimate that the impact on Q2 is roughly 40 basis points so not terribly significant.
Research Division</strong> So the 40 basis points is all as a result of the favorable weather? Correct.
And then earlier Budd had a question on ticket bucket performance.
I was able to run to my office and grab that information.
So as you think about tickets below $50 they were plus 2%.
Tickets below $100 and $500 were plus 3%.
Tickets above $500 were negative 1% again driven principally by the 3 categories I noted: appliances cabinets and countertops and Millwork.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Benedict of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> A couple things.
First just on the week shift Bob maybe help us what you think the sales impact's going to be on the second quarter as you start to get back some of the benefit you got in the first.
How is May to date? It sounds like obviously you guys are expecting 1% to 3% for the quarter but just trying to get a flavor as to how things maybe come off of that depressed level in April.
And then with the 30% fewer promotions in the first quarter year-over-year can you give us a sense maybe what that was in April? And then what's been the competitive response to that? And how should we be thinking about the promotions year-over-year as we move throughout 2Q and beyond? So Pete I'll start with the first few and let others chime in.
As it relates to the week shift impact there really is no impact for the year.
So the entire pickup in Q1 is given back largely in Q2 and Q4 but we still expect comps of 1% to 3% in each of those remaining quarters for the year.
May has started off as expected.
So we're in good shape out of the gate to hit the 1% to 3% target.
As relates to Q1 promos as I mentioned the biggest impact on big-ticket promos was in April roughly 200 basis points relative to the 120 basis points for Q1.
And then your last question dealt with competitive response.
Yes.
And Peter this is Bob Gfeller.
Just one other point on the big-ticket promotions in April.
As I think we mentioned in the scripts these were conscious decisions because we are moving back to EDLP.
Some categories will be EDLP plus.
But some categories don't need to be promoted at the depth that we did last year.
So it's really a depth issue on appliances Millwork where we frankly bypassed some big offers that we had last year.
From a competitive -- one other point on that as well is the merchants upfront as they're looking at their lines they are critically looking at the profitability promotions they've run in the past.
And as Greg said they are making hard decisions not to repeat where it wasn't a profitable decision that was right for the customer.
That's happening all throughout the quarter inclusive in April.
And as it relates to the competitive response the competition quite frankly is doing -- they're executing their plan and we're executing our plan.
We're certainly keeping an eye on it but we did make some decision to make sure that we stayed on plan because we think what we put in the marketplace was still competitive to address customer needs.
And as Greg said in the second quarter looking at the promotional and medium mix we think is going to help us move into the second quarter on plan.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Binder of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My first question was with regard to the strategy behind fewer promotions on big ticket.
I'm just curious as you consider the EDLP approach if that's necessarily the right strategy across the store and whether or not you're seeing others in the industry pull back on promotion and big ticket? You mentioned that the customer is constrained and I'm just curious if it's accretive if you do promote that particular area of the store would you reconsider? Dan I'll start then I'll get Bob Gfeller to jump in.
As Bob explained yes there are still certain categories certain times of the year when we will be promotional.
It's all about rationalizing that promotional cadence.
So for example as he described in the first quarter it was about going less deep on certain promotions such as appliance.
I think last year in many cases we were doing 15% off E Star.
We didn't do any of those 15% off this year.
So it's really rationalizing that as we're moving back to EDLP rationalizing the promotional cadence across the store looking at the profitability of promotions previously looking at which categories we think need to be promoted which ones the customer's most likely to expect to be promoted or will respond most likely to those promotions.
And part of that when you pull it all together is also being driven by what we did a year ago which was rolling out our 5% off everyday value prop on the Lowe's credit card.
We anniversaried that in April of this year for the consumer.
And for the commercial customer we'll anniversary that in the second quarter.
So now that you've got that 5% off out there we're taking that as an underpinning and reviewing our other promotional cadences to say when where how deep should we be promoting other categories.
And that's what Bob and the merchants have been working through in this process.
And Dan just to build one other comment around Robert's point.
Robert's script talked about the stages of home improvement.
And when we think about these big-ticket categories both merchandising and operations we need to sell the project.
And so one of the other things that we are trying to look at critically is how do we use more than just price promotion where we bring in the value proposition where we bring in the exterior selling solutions where we bring in the technology to make the experience simpler for the customer.
This is all about how we kind of encircle the project and sell the project in totality.
So that type of a mindset is what we're trying to look at as we go forward so that again we move from just a product promotion to more of a project selling mode.
And so that's something we're looking at based on selling across the stages and addressing customer needs.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My follow-up question was on the credit.
Credit's been doing well for a while.
Portfolios in general have been experiencing lower losses lower write off.
I'm just curious as you look forward what kind of leverage you would expect out of credit based on your current comp plan as we go through Qs 2 through 4.
So Dan as Robert said we cycled for the value proposition.
We cycled the consumer piece in April.
We cycle the commercial piece in July.
So for the year we do expect the credit program to generate leverage 30 basis points for the year which is lower than the 63 we leveraged in the first quarter principally due to losses.
So we'll still see benefit for the year but to a lower degree than we saw in the first quarter.
Your final question comes from the line of Eric Bosshard of Cleveland Research.
Interested on the line review process.
Bob Gfeller I know you're in a new position now so I'm just curious how that process is being managed related to the management change? And then also you talked about the timing of implementing the line review changes.
If there's anything else that is being done differently as you've worked your way into this process with the net price effort and the other pieces of it? If you could just expand on those thoughts.
Eric sure.
This is Bob happy to do that.
First of all I'm in a transitionary role moving to this the new customer experience team led by Greg and currently continuing to lead the merchandising organization until that position is filled.
I will tell you we've got very strong merchandising leadership and our 2 SVPs GMM and our MVP ranks lots of tenure lots of great capability as it relates to their leadership of the line review process.
So I don't think we have any hiccup there.
Two other elements as it relates to kind of moving past the 90 day and trying to look at this to make sure quality is the winner is we -- as we've said in the past our clearance program as it relates to clearancing out inventory is being scrutinized so that we are as profitable as possible on clearance.
So that again we get the margin inflection in the back half.
And then the second reason I would cite as it relates to taking a little bit more time is that as private brands grow their penetration in some of these lines where they're relevant and where they don't displace the powerful national brand there are some lead times related with import products that are also giving us a little bit of inflection on the 90 days.
Great.
And then secondly just in terms of market share wonder if you all have any perspective on the market share performance relative to the channels or the competitors that you're now thinking about? How that looked in 1Q and how you think about that through the balance of the year? Eric this is Greg Bridgeford.
I think that we -- when we look at share we've looked at the NAICS figures and home improvement channel is the lowest performing of all the channels.
But it seems to be quite a volatile figure as you've seen the revisions that Census Bureau has just applied to 2010 and some 2011 figures.
But the home improvement subdivision of 4 4 4 is increasing at about 9%.
It's driven heavily by the major players in that industry but some of the hardware channel the garden supply channel are increasing at significant double-digit rates.
So what we're watching is and I'll go back to what Bob said earlier we're looking at from the customer lens where are they looking for an inclusion in the project process and where are they finding information related to pricing of projects help in this industry.
So we're trying to make sure that as we look at what our channel has represented in the past which was primarily getting supplies and that we're going to represent a different vehicle for them in the future.
We've got to be fundamentally sound in getting supplies but we also realize that specialists appear to be making gains in some specific categories.
We want to make sure that as we alter our business model that that business model reflects the changing points of entry for consumers today as they look at the projects both large and small.
Thanks.
And as always thanks for your continued interest in Lowe's.
We look forward to speaking with you again when we report our second quarter 2012 results on August 20.
Have a great day.
This concludes today's conference call and you may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the Lowe's Companies Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management's expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the company can give no assurance they will prove to be correct.
Those risks are described in the company's earnings release and in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Also during this call management will use certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other information about them posted on Lowe's Investor Relations website under Investor Documents.
Hosting today's conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock Chairman President and CEO; Mr.
Greg Bridgeford Chief Customer Officer; and Mr.
Bob Hull Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the program over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in Lowe's.
Following my remarks Greg Bridgeford will review our operational performance and Bob Hull will review our financial results in detail.
But first let me provide a summary of our second quarter performance.
Comparable store sales for the second quarter were negative 0.4% with an 0.8% decline in comp transactions and a 0.4% increase in comp average ticket.
The comp for our U.S.
business was negative 0.2%.
Ahead of the quarter we expected comps to be within the 1% to 3% range.
And while we fell short our performance improved sequentially each month of the quarter and 9 of 14 product categories ended the quarter with a positive comp.
In fact 7 of those product categories generated comps above 1%.
The most significant comp pressure came from building materials lawn and garden and Millwork and Greg will discuss those categories in a few minutes.
We also continue to see strength in our Commercial business which outperformed the company average in the second quarter.
As a reminder our Commercial business is roughly 25% of our sales.
While second quarter gross margin contracted 56 basis points we continue to improve sequentially while working to strike the right balance relative to promotions.
We effectively controlled operating expenses in the quarter delivering earnings per share of $0.64 which included approximately $0.01 of severance and other cost associated with our voluntary separation program.
Delivering on our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders in the second quarter we repurchased $1 billion or 36.8 million shares of stock and paid $166 million in dividends.
Before I turn the call over to Greg I'd like to address 2 additional topics: first my level of satisfaction with the progress on our strategic initiatives; and second our nonbinding proposal to acquire RONA.
In the U.S.
we were focused on 2 large bodies of work this year value improvement and product differentiation.
Together they will enable us to compete more effectively in the current macroeconomic environment.
These focus areas build on Lowe's core strengths and are expected to deliver comp transaction growth and better gross margins by localizing market assortments driving excitement in our stores through better display techniques and managing an appropriate balance of product cost and retail pricing.
We are also in the process of transforming our business to deliver seamless and simple multi-channel customer experiences and we are seeing traction with mobile technology our Flexible Fulfillment capabilities and MyLowe's.
Individually and collectively these efforts are significant but necessary to respond to the changing needs and expectations of consumers.
Given the magnitude of change we understood there would be some level of disruption.
We're willing to accept short-term disruption for long-term gain because we believe in our strategy.
However I expect the organization to rise to the occasion and execute consistently every day.
We knew it would take time to see the full benefits of our actions.
The team is making progress on these initiatives but frankly the benefits are accruing at a slower rate than I had expected.
It will likely be mid-2013 before we fully complete this phase of our transformation.
We must be realistic about our timeline and we must ensure that we fully realize the benefits of our actions before moving on to the next phase of our transformation.
Greg will share his thoughts on improving execution and the interim milestones with you in few minutes.
Finally let me address our nonbinding proposal to acquire RONA.
First and foremost an acquisition is not imminent.
We are evaluating our options and part of that evaluation among other things is whether or not we can complete confirmatory due diligence and ensure a fair price and an adequate return on our investment.
Second at our Analyst and Investor Conference last December we discussed our capital allocation priorities.
Those priorities were first strategically invest in the business; second grow the dividend based on our targeted 30% to 35% dividend payout ratio; and third return excess cash to shareholders through our share repurchase program.
Regarding these priorities let me emphasize 2 points.
One our priorities have not changed.
We said in December that while we continue to focus on the U.S.
home improvement market we also look for opportunities in new and existing international markets to improve the overall portfolio of our business.
And based on publicly available information we believe that an acquisition of RONA would provide us with an opportunity to immediately and significantly expand our Canadian presence.
Two the proposed acquisition cost for RONA is not entirely incremental because our average annual capital expenditure target through 2015 assumes some growth in Canada.
If we move forward with the transaction there will be some short-term impact on our share repurchase program likely 2 to 3 quarters.
But longer term we expect to generate incrementally more cash flow as a result of the proposed transaction providing a net benefit to our share repurchase program.
Additionally the new organizational design that we announced in mid-April provides for a separation of management to either the U.S.
or our international operations.
We made this decision in recognition that our U.S.
and international businesses are in different stages of maturity with market and cultural differences that require different approaches.
Now let me conclude with some thoughts on the second half of 2012.
While we're encouraged by improving housing metrics we believe underlying demand will remain soft in the near term and our guidance reflects that view.
It has also been adjusted for our performance today and revised timelines and benefit assumptions for our initiatives.
I have confidence in our strategy and our employees.
And while I recognize the significant magnitude of change that we've asked the organization to absorb as we transform our business we fully understand that we must improve our level of execution.
Thanks again for your interest.
Greg? Thanks Robert and good morning everyone.
During my time today I want to dive a little deeper into our quarterly results describe our challenges and progress and provide clarity on our priorities.
Our second quarter performance resulted from a number of factors: a challenging start learnings applied and a better finish.
For the first few minutes I'd like to focus on product category performance.
As Robert noted building materials lawn and garden and Millwork put significant pressure on our total comp growth.
In fact excluding these categories the remaining 11 categories combined comped above 1% with particular strength in lumber cabinets and countertops paint and tools and outdoor power equipment.
We faced a headwind in building materials which finished the quarter with double-digit negative comps.
Substantial tornado and hurricane repairs drove double-digit positive comps in this category in the second third and fourth quarter of 2011.
In lawn and garden the combined effect of a strong pull-forward in the early spring season followed by extreme heat and drought conditions led to slow sales and distressed live goods inventory which negatively affected margin in this category.
Millwork sales were negatively impacted as we struggled to strike the right balance on promotions.
Focusing on our monthly comp progression our May comps were negatively impacted by a reduced promotional schedule that resulted in light Memorial Day weekend traffic particularly in appliances flooring cabinets and countertops.
As a result of early adjustments we improved sales as the quarter progressed but in hindsight we overcorrected and added too heavily to big-ticket promotions negatively impacting margin.
Based on our experience in the second quarter we've completely taken apart our promotional strategy not to go back and add in more events for the third and fourth quarters but to rebuild from the inside out revising tab item selection to appropriately balance traffic driving and attachment items building more effective traffic-driving messaging within our TV campaigns our radio spots looking at all of our media vehicles.
We're on a journey to return to the operational leverage of EDLP and we recognize it's not a day trip.
Turning to our strategic focus areas.
Our most immediate priority is to improve our product sales business model through our value improvement program.
Let me take a minute to explain the purpose of this program.
Using research support each merchandise category team identifies the product attributes that are most important to customers.
This information creates the assortment strategy that guides the work of the accelerated line review process.
The process has firm targets of lowering first cost through comprehensive line reviews and to realign and leverage inventory dollars to support sales.
Another critical goal is to locally assort items by using new planning systems to identify the stores' market needs.
So the approach is to define the category strategy based on research create a differentiated product offering and lower the cost structure.
Here's a quick snapshot of where we stand at the end of the second quarter.
We've now completed line reviews representing nearly half of our business and expect to reach approximately 90% by the end of the fiscal year.
We continue to exceed our inventory reduction goals and are making progress to meet our cost reduction goals.
A portion of these cost reductions involve redirecting vendor promotional and marketing support dollars to lower unit costs.
Based on our inventory terms the benefit to our cost of goods sold will lag the completion of the resets by approximately one quarter.
We will apply the savings achieved through the line reviews as appropriate to product categories to create better everyday pricing and support higher-turn categories with deeper inventory.
At the end of the second quarter we've completed resets representing nearly 15% of the business and we expect to reach approximately 50% by the end of the fiscal year.
While we're on pace with the timing of line reviews and reset completion that we shared with you last quarter we've set more realistic expectations in the back half of the year for the time it will take for customers to respond to the improvements we've made and for gross margins to more fully reflect unit cost reductions.
With only a handful of resets fully in place for more than a few weeks we're just starting to accumulate performance data from these completed sets.
One category who early results are favorable is paint.
In the first quarter we reset our entire paint category including both paint and accessories.
Paint is the #1 DIY project among home improvement customers yet we know that selecting the perfect customer -- the perfect color can be challenging.
So with our vendor partner Valspar who's exclusive to Lowe's we developed a Lowe's color studio.
The goal was to sell more paint by simplifying this process.
We developed 4 new color collections one for each season.
Swatches of these colors are available in store and online and pre-mixed samples are available in the store in clear sample jar that inspires the customer at the shelf and makes obtaining a sample quick and easy.
We also simplified our offering of paint applicators making use of analytics generated using our market clustering and assortment tools.
These analytics led us to eliminate items with identical function leading to significant SKU and cost reductions while increasing our inventory of our highest volume items resulting in net inventory reduction.
In paint applicators and accessories we're emphasizing our private brands at lower price points with the Project Source brand as the opening price point offering and the Blue Hawk brand as a step-up to a better price point.
We've also identified a cluster of roughly half our stores where the Purdy national brand is the most important to the commercial business customer.
The result is a bay of paint applicators that is much easier for the customer to choose from and that provides national brands where they are most valued and a clear progression of features and brand relevance and increasing price points.
To summarize these paint category line reviews demonstrate how we're using the accelerated line review process to work with vendor partners to generate innovative product and display ideas use brands in a rational manner to cater to specific customer needs and use new analytical capabilities to identify opportunities to tailor our offering to each market and to simplify our assortment to make it easier for customers to choose the right product for their needs purchase it and get on with the project.
An early read from this reset is that it is driving comp and margin growth above our initial expectations.
Another fundamental operating improvement we are making in our stores is the end cap and promotional space resets that we are executing as part of the product differentiation focus area.
We've revised many of our end cap locations to highlight innovative new products and significant values leading into a category.
We've also revamped the promotional spaces for drop zones to promote seasonally relevant high-value items to drive sales.
To date we've reset over 1 000 of our 1 700 domestic stores over 350 in this quarter alone.
While we've not yet obtained the full benefits expected from the first stores we reset the results of these changes in end cap or promotional spaces have continued to improve as we adjust the mix of end cap themes and improve the rotation of products.
We believe there are further opportunities to improve the performance through better end cap item selection increased depth of supporting inventory and better adjacency of end cap items to the associated in-line inventory.
We anticipate resetting another 400 stores in the third quarter.
In growing our multi-channel capabilities we continue to gain traction in enabling consumers to fulfill their needs seamlessly across channels.
We implemented what we call Flexible Fulfillment last fall.
This capability allows us deliver Lowes.com parcel orders from most -- the most efficient location directly to consumers.
We now ship from 53 fulfillment locations around the country and can satisfy over 90% of U.S.
markets within 24 hours at standard shipping rates.
In the second quarter Flexible Fulfillment allowed us to more than double our parcel shipments versus last year and deliver over 98% of them on time.
These Flexible Fulfillment capabilities contributed to second quarter Lowes.com sales growth of approximately 70%.
The MyLowe's customer base also continues to grow.
Since we launched this customer-enabling personalized website in October of 2011 over 10 million cards have been activated and 3.3 million cardholders have registered their cards on MyLowe's.
As a reminder MyLowe's allows customers to access their purchase histories home profiles project list reminders and folders.
We continue to enhance the capability we've already delivered while developing new capabilities all with an eye to further increase engagement with customers.
In the same way we're continuing to expand the use of iPhone technology in our stores.
Last year we deployed 42 000 devices across all stores so approximately 25 per location.
Each phone was used on average over 30 times a day in the second quarter an approximate 40% increase over the first quarter.
Associates use the iPhones to perform task like looking up inventory and requesting new inventory.
Additionally new features have recently added and -- have been recently added that provide associates with even greater ability to assist customers in the aisle.
For instance an associate has immediate visibility to rebates available on scanned items.
And we've now added voice capabilities that use our store WiFi and that will allow us to eliminate a separate mobile voice system in the store.
Additionally we're piloting tendering the aisle and we'll continue to add capabilities that improve the customers' experience and make our associates more productive.
So our strategic focus areas are centered around improving our product base business model through the value improvement program communicating value and innovation through our product differentiation rollout and improving the customer experience through Flexible Fulfillment and MyLowe's customer website and mobile technology.
Now last I'd like to make a personal comment.
Since Rick Damron and I took the new positions of Chief Operating Officer and Chief Customer Officer respectively at the start of the second quarter we've been committed to a tight focus on running the business.
We recognize that the most critical leadership we can deliver is a realistic assessment of our current and near-term performance and have focused on driving improved results over the short and midterm.
As Robert said earlier we expect some disruption over the next few quarters but our teams will be working hard on the fundamentals of delivering a better and different shopping purchase and fulfillment experience that will lead to better sales more predictable margins and better asset leverage in midterm even in this challenging consumer environment.
We look forward to better realizing the benefits of the investments that we've made in the product differentiation rollout with the value improvement program and new capabilities to deliver more seamless and simple multi-channel customer experiences.
Thank you for your interest in Lowe's and I'll now turn it over to Bob Hull.
Bob? Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
As noted in our earnings release there was a week shift in fiscal 2012 as a result of 2011's 53rd week.
Sales for the second quarter were $14.2 billion which represents a 2% decrease from last year's second quarter.
The decrease was driven by the counter week shift and negative comp store sales offset slightly by new stores.
We estimate that the week shift negatively impacted sales for the quarter by $259 million or 1.8%.
In Q2 total cost per transactions decreased 2.4% primarily a result of the week shift impact while total average ticket increased 0.4% to $62.66.
Comp sales were negative 0.4% for the quarter.
Looking at monthly trends comps were negative 2.1% in May positive 0.4% in June and positive 0.7% in July.
Through the first 3 weeks of May comps were running above 1%.
But as Greg noted with tough Memorial Day weekend and as a result comps were negative for the month.
With regard to product categories the categories that had above-average comps in the second quarter included lumber cabinets and countertops paint tools and outdoor power equipment flooring seasonal living home fashion storage and cleaning hardware and fashion electrical.
Plumbing and appliances performed at approximately the overall corporate average.
For the quarter comp transactions declined 0.8% which is primarily attributable to lawn and garden which was impacted by a seasonal pull-forward as well as extreme heat and drought conditions in much of the country.
Comp average ticket increased 0.4%.
The positive comp average ticket was driven by strength in our Commercial business above-average performance in cabinets and countertops tools and outdoor power equipment and flooring as well as lumber inflation offset slightly by the impact of the 5% off credit value proposition.
Year-to-date total sales of $27.4 billion were up 2.5% into the first half of 2011 driven by a 1% increase in comp store sales a 1% net favorable week shift impact and new stores.
Gross margin for the second quarter was 33.93% of the sales which decreased 56 basis points from last year's second quarter.
In the quarter promotional activity price reductions and lawn and garden write-offs and drought markets negatively impacted gross margin by approximately 45 basis points.
In addition our proprietary credit value proposition which offers customers a choice of 5% off everyday or promotional financing negatively impacted gross margin by 15 basis points.
This was more than offset by leverage in tender and other costs associated with our proprietary credit program.
I'll provide the SG&amp;A and EBIT impacts in a moment.
These items were offset slightly by product mix inflation and lower fuel costs.
Year-to-date gross margin was 34.3% of sales a decrease of 63 basis points from the first half of 2011.
SG&amp;A for Q2 was 22.26% of sales which de-leveraged 4 basis points.
During the quarter store payroll de-leveraged approximately 20 basis points.
Expense dollars were essentially flat to last year with a de-leverage due to the sales decline associated with the week shift and negative comps.
Bonus expense de-leveraged 20 basis points primarily related to higher expected attainment levels for store-based employees relative to last year.
In Q2 we recorded an additional $15 million in expenses associated with the voluntary separation program or VSP causing 11 basis points of de-leverage.
Also in the quarter we experienced de-leverage in employee insurance for merchandising cost associated with the product differentiation program and systems and communications related to WiFi iPhones and other in-store technology upgrades.
These items were essentially offset by the following.
We incurred a $17 million charge related to an evaluation of the carrying value of long-life assets.
This compares to approximately $83 million for similar charges in Q2 2011 which resulted in leverage of 45 basis points.
We also experienced 36 basis points of leverage associated with our proprietary credit program.
This leverage was driven by a combination of fewer losses higher portfolio income and lower money costs.
In addition interchange fees were lower at the penetration of proprietary credit increased roughly 300 basis points over last year's second quarter to 23.8% of sales.
Year-to-date SG&amp;A of 23.4% to sales which leveraged 36 basis points from last year's first half.
Depreciation for the quarter was $369 million which was 2.59% of sales and de-leveraged 8 basis points compared with last year's second quarter.
In Q2 earnings before interest and taxes or EBIT declined 68 basis points to 9.08% of sales.
We estimate that our value -- proprietary credit value proposition positively impacted EBIT by 5 basis points for the quarter as leverage and proprietary credit bank card and other expenses but this was more than offset by a negative gross margin impact.
For the first half of 2012 EBIT was 8.2% of sales which was 21 basis points lower than the same period last year.
For the quarter interest expense was $96 million and de-leveraged 6 basis points to last year as a percentage of sales.
Interest expense came in lower than anticipated due to tax settlements that resulted in lower interest accruals of $22 million in the quarter.
Total expenses for Q2 were 25.53% of sales and de-leveraged to 18 basis points.
Year-to-date total expenses were 26.83% of sales and leveraged 36 basis points versus last year.
Pretax earnings for the quarter were 8.4% of sales.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 37.6% essentially the same as Q2  last year.
Net earnings were $747 million for the quarter down 10% to Q2 2011.
Earnings per share of $0.64 for the second quarter was flat to last year.
We estimate that the week shift negatively impacted earnings per share by $0.03.
In Q2 EPS was also negatively impacted by VSP and impairment offset somewhat by lower interest expense associated with tax settlements.
The net impact of these items hurt earnings per share by $0.01.
For the first 6 months of 2012 earnings per share of $1.07 represents a 9.2% increase over the first half of 2011.
Now to a few items on the balance sheet starting with assets.
Cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of the quarter was $1.7 billion.
Our second quarter inventory balance of $8.7 billion decreased $126 million or 1.4% versus Q2 last year.
The decrease was driven by building materials as we had higher inventory levels last year to support strong storm-related sales as well as SKU and cost-reduction efforts.
Inventory turnover calculated by taking a trailing 4-quarters cost of sales divided by average inventory for the last 5 quarters was 3.75% an increase of 15 basis points from Q2 2011.
Return on assets determined using a trailing 4-quarters earnings divided by average assets for the last 5 quarters decreased 50 basis points to 5.24%.
We estimate that the impact of charges for last year's store closings discontinued projects and long-lived asset impairments negatively impacted return on assets by 70 basis points.
Moving now to the liabilities section of the balance sheet.
Accounts payable of $5.1 billion represents a 5.5% decrease from Q2 last year.
The lower accounts payable balance relates to the timing of purchases this year relative to last year.
At the end of the second quarter lease-adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR was 2.4x.
Adjusting for the impact of charges for last year's store closings discontinued projects and long-life asset impairments lease- adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR was 2.22x.
Return on invested capital measured using a trailing 4-quarters earnings plus tax-adjusted interest divided by average debt and equity for the last 5 quarters decreased 43 basis points for the quarter to 8.61%.
We estimate the impact of the charges for last year's store closings discontinued projects and long-life assets impairments negatively impacted ROIC by 100 basis points.
Now looking at the statement of cash flows.
Cash flow from operations was $2.8 billion a decrease of $497 million or 15% from last year largely due to the timing of purchases contributing to the share decrease -- excuse me timing of purchases contributing to the decrease in accounts payable.
Cash used in property acquired was $622 million a 20% decrease from last year.
As a result year-to-date free cash flow of $2.2 billion is 13% lower than the first half of 2011.
During the quarter we repurchased almost 37 million shares at an average price of $27.20 for a total repurchased amount of $1 billion.
We have $1.75 billion remaining under share repurchase authorization.
Looking ahead I'd like to address several of the items detailed in Lowe's' business outlook.
In 2012 we expect the total sales -- expect total sales to be approximately flat to last year.
On a 52- to 52-week basis sales increase would be approximately 1%.
We expect comp sales to increase by approximately 0.5% which implies a flat comp in the second half of 2012.
In addition we expect to open approximately 10 stores for the year resulting in a slight increase in square footage.
For the fiscal year we're anticipating an EBIT increase of approximately 45 basis points.
We do expect gross margin to increase in the second half but to a lesser degree than our previous outlook.
We expect depreciation expense of about $1.5 billion.
The effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 37.8%.
The sum of these inputs should yield earnings per share of approximately $1.64 which represents an increase of 15% over 2011.
We've lowered our outlook for the second half of the year.
As Robert noted the benefits of our initiatives are coming at a slower rate than we expected.
We believe that we are working on the right things but we also recognize that there's a lot going on.
As a result we've taken a more cautious approach to our outlook for the remainder of the year.
For the year we are forecasting cash flows from operations to be approximately $3.5 billion which is lower than our prior forecast due to both lower earnings and lower accounts payable.
Our capital forecast for 2012 is approximately $1.4 billion with roughly $100 million funded by operating leases resulting in cash capital expenditures of $1.3 billion.
This results in an estimated free cash flow of $2.2 billion for 2012.
Our guidance assumes $1.5 billion in additional share repurchases for a total $4.25 billion for the year.
We have a $550 million debt maturity in September of 2012.
For the year we expect lease-adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR will be at or below 2.25x.
Alicia we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Alan Rifkin from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> With respect to the results that you're seeing from the line reviews so far Greg can you maybe just talk about with the 50% of the products that you've already completed what's the incremental gain there? And can we assume that the line reviews that you're conducting earlier in the program should yield greater results than what you're anticipating for the -- as opposed to the reviews later in the program? I'll address that last part first.
Not necessarily because in a number of cases where we think that it's taken some time for the vendor community to digest the strategy that we're going after in some of these line constructions and the way we're trying to create value for the customer.
And be honest with you in -- as we come around to a cycle of some line reviews you're seeing the same vendors come to the table with actually much more alignment with where we're taking the strategy to create value within each of these categories.
And with respect to where we are with our expectations and the performance of the line reviews as we described earlier from an inventory -- net inventory reduction standpoint we're exceeding our initial expectations.
And from a cost standpoint we're increasing our progress towards our target and that's -- and we're looking -- again we're looking forward for a stronger performance in that area as we go through continuing cycles of this accelerated line review process.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up for Robert if I may.
Robert do your results in the first half of the year and the fact that you've now lowered your expectations for the second half and the housing recovery seems to be as elusive as ever does that give you pause that maybe you should be pursuing RONA at a different time a time when the U.S.
business is exhibiting a little bit more stabilization than what we're presently seeing? Yes.
I mean it's a -- obviously a fair point Alan.
The -- with regard to the U.S.
business we still feel really good about where we're going.
We know that we had a lot of -- probably the peak of disruption in the second quarter with everything that we threw at the organization.
I think we've gotten the organization settled back down.
We are understanding that the benefits are still there but it is taking a little bit longer to accrue.
So certainly with regard to the transaction with RONA and to your question first of all the set of transactions not imminent even if we could get to that point you would be into 2013 before a transaction would close and we'd be through a lot of the -- what Greg has talked with the cadence of the line review process and the other changes the heavy changes that we're making in the store environment.
But first and foremost we're looking at several options as to how we get scale in our business in Canada.
This is one of the options that we're looking at and we really don't know until we can get to the point of confirmatory due diligence whether it makes sense.
From the outside it makes sense.
We need to get inside and get confirmatory due diligence to be able to confirm those beliefs but we have a preference for friendly transaction.
We're not going to do something that doesn't make long-term sense for the company.
It's something that we don't think we can absorb.
That's why we've kind of bifurcated the operations of the company from international and U.S.
to minimize any distraction there and we're not going to overpay something that we don't think we can get an adequate return on.
So unfortunately we can't always pick the timing as to when something may be available when it's time to -- the right time to pursue something given what else we have in the business but we're going to try and manage through that and try and make the right long-term decisions for the organization.
But understand your point and it's a point well taken so.
And your next question comes from the line of Peter Benedict from Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> First just Bob thinking about the second half comp plan of flat.
I know there's some comparison differences third and fourth quarter.
Is there anything we should think about in terms of the pace? I know that the -- some of the merchandising efforts you've got should be accruing benefit increasingly as you go forward but the comparisons are tougher fourth quarter.
Just maybe talking about the -- how you see the third quarter versus the fourth quarter.
That's the first question then I have a follow-up.
So Peter thanks for the question.
So if we take a look at last year we do have tougher comparisons in the fourth quarter.
Q4 last year we said favorable weather helped us roughly 150 basis points so we're certainly mindful of that comparison.
Greg in his comments took you through the cadence of the line review process.
So momentum is certainly building there.
We are seeing good results from the few that have been set to date.
Certainly more gets set as we move into the back half of the year.
In addition we've got greater number of stores set with the product differentiation the end caps and the drop zones.
So as the year progresses we expect more benefits from those items that hopefully offset the tough compares we've got in the fourth quarter.
We also recognize that we've got tough building material comparisons as Greg alluded to not only in Q2 of last year but Q3 and Q4.
Part of Q4 is -- was in the 150 basis points of weather favorability.
So as a result we landed a flat comp for the back half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess understanding that the early part of May wasn't a great indicator for the quarter can you just maybe talk to the August trends to date.
And then can you help clarify kind of the promotional strategy changes that you're making? I'm not sure I completely understood that.
Just how you're viewing the second half promotional strategy versus maybe where you thought it would be 3 months ago.
I'll take the first part and let Greg address the promotional piece.
So 16 days does not make a quarter.
So thus far in August sales trends have continued to accelerate.
August comps are higher than what we reported for the month of July and again through 2 or so weeks gross margin is essentially flat with last year.
And Peter on the promotional strategy when I said we would take it apart from the -- and rebuild it from the inside out what we're really doing is -- it actually has a number of components and I'll try to address all of them.
We're centrally coordinating our product selection to make sure that we are very strategic in what areas that we're promoting for the right time.
We're specifically looking at the timing the impact and the duration of every offer.
And we're -- there's a heavy focus towards a balance in the item selection to balance traffic-driving items and attachment items and that has a very big impact on your out margin.
We're also taking a look at the bigger-ticket promotions and again making sure that the cadence is appropriate and the duration's appropriate.
And from another factor in the quarter and a little bit of talking to where Bob is referring to sales momentum for the third and fourth quarter we're taking a hard look at our lawn and garden plan and making sure that we've got a solid mix in the advertising plan of cross-merchandising opportunities so that we make sure that our attachment rates are strong in lawn and garden.
And again that has -- it has positive margin implications from executing on those plan revisions.
And your next question comes from the line of David Strasser from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
When you looked at the differences May June July I mean obviously May was hurt seasonally due to the traffic and the pull-forward.
Any other big changes within any categories kind of as the business improved through the quarter sequentially? David this is Greg Bridgeford.
I would say that if you look at the cadence of the businesses as we described lawn and garden had a strong pull-forward effect.
And then we -- it really had an impact on our inventory sell-through and that had a margin impact.
In addition you have the -- you have a really tough comp on the building materials side which as they begin cycling up against all the activity we had in the East and Central part of the country last year in this time.
On the decor categories and on -- in particular we saw a pretty solid performance that continued to do well sequentially and I would say that we're continuing to see strength there.
And we're starting to see -- again we're working through a balance on the big-ticket categories so that we can get a more balanced output and more predictable output.
And that's a heavy focus of all of our promotional tweaking.
Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up I -- when you look at -- well how about appliances particularly ACs did that -- how much did that help as the weather the really warm weather particularly in the Northeast Mid-Atlantic -- maybe I'm being too Northeast centric here but how much -- did that help a lot? Because when you look at the match up numbers it seems like those -- that was a pretty big category particularly as the quarter progressed.
David it was a factor early in the quarter and in the first 2 months as we cycled into some very hot weather and we sold through.
We had a good performance in that category strong comp performance and a nice handling of the sell-through of the inventory.
And your next question comes from the line of Mike Baker from the Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So I guess a couple of questions.
One in your estimation how much of your comp weakness and gross margin weakness was sort of self-inflicted from this promotional activity? So Mike this is Bob.
I'll start.
From the margin perspective I said 45 basis points was from promotional activity markdowns and such.
We estimate that roughly 20 basis points of the 45 results from promotional activity associated with big-ticket categories.
As it relates to sales impact it's a mixed bag.
We think it probably helped cabinet and countertop sales appliance sales flooring sales.
We think promotional activity actually hurt Millwork sales in the quarter so we think it's a mixed bag from a sales perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a couple more quick follow-ups.
So you said you're pushing out when you're supposed to see the benefit from this phase of transformation to mid-2013.
That was I presume supposed to be the -- by the end of 2012.
Is that the right way to think about it? Some of the -- and where does that show up mostly? In sales or gross margin or SG&amp;A? Mike I'll start.
It’s Robert.
And then I'll have Greg follow on.
Yes as you know nothing has changed on the line review schedule and the cadence that we talked about from the line review schedule.
We still expect to have approximately 90% of those done by the end of the year.
So there was already some benefit that would be lapping over into 2013.
It's probably pushing out probably a quarter so when you get to mid-2013.
And really what we're trying to say there is that we're excited about what we're seeing.
We’re seeing as Greg said the inventory reductions we're moving in on the cost reductions.
We just got to turn it through the layers.
But these changes until we get enough of the store out there we're not really out promoting anything different to the consumer.
So it's taken the consumer in the store shopping to be able to see the changes that we've made.
It basically comes back to not want to overpromise under deliver.
We also as I said with a lot of the disruption that we had in the organization organizational changes in getting the new go to market structure lined up earlier in the year that caused a little bit probably more disruption than we’d anticipate.
I think we've got the organization settled down and focused on getting back to business and running the business.
So it probably pushes out about a quarter and quite frankly we just decided to give ourself a little bit more breathing room.
We've got a lot of lines to go through.
As we clear those lines we won't be able to get through the sell-down process.
We don't -- we want to make sure that we're doing that in the appropriate manner.
Managing the margin appropriately will give us enough breathing room to move through that as we need to so we can go ahead and get this phase of the transformation behind us and then start thinking about other phases.
So Greg? Yes.
Mike the best way I can describe it would be that as I look through the handful of categories that have been set for more than a few weeks I know what some of the values and some of the line review improvements are and it's interesting to see where you're seeing the comp and margin dollar progress.
So you go to a category that's very active and is a high foot traffic category like paint and you start seeing the benefits flow through.
And that's when we describe that it will take the customer some time to encounter and discover the improvements we've made in some of the lower traffic categories.
That's what Robert was referring to when he said we're going to see maybe a lengthened out impact on some of the lower foot traffic volume categories.
Paint's the opposite end of the spectrum and we're seeing customers encounter the new accessories.
They're encountering the new paint lineup.
They're encountering the new displays and they like what they see obviously.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes sense.
One more quick thing.
On the buybacks you said $4.25 billion for the year.
I think at your Analyst Day you had been saying $4.5 billion a year to get to $18 billion by 2015.
Is this a change albeit a small change but a change in that outlook? Or is -- are you still on pace for $18 billion through 2015 RONA notwithstanding? So when we laid out the -- kind of a 4-year plan the $4.5 billion was simple math.
We just take the $18 billion divided by 4.
It wasn't exactly $4.5 billion per year so this would be more temporary in nature.
It does not...
Research Division</strong> So you haven't changed it from what you were thinking in December? For December you were thinking $4.25 billion this year as well.
The only change to $4.25 billion is the recognition that with top line coming down with gross margin coming down cash flow from operations is coming down.
And as we think about balancing that with the leverage target we needed to moderate share repurchases at this point in time.
And your next question comes from the line of Brian Nagel from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> So quick -- I just want to follow up on the gross margin commentary further just so I'm clear.
The -- you called out the 45 basis points and then the 20 basis points of promotional activity.
So just to understand that -- should we think about that as more onetime in nature? What's really the nature of that promotional activity? And how does it play in the strategy going forward? Brian I'll -- this is Greg.
I'll take that.
The majority as Bob described in the 45 basis points of adverse impact from promotions were the big-ticket categories that when we looked at sales coming out of May and the impact of a much less in promotional event calendar than we had in the comparable time period I would say that we leaned into big-ticket promotions heavily.
And recognizing that our predictions about how customers would take up the various offerings that we had.
And late in the quarter we believe we overcorrected.
That's a very heavy portion of that.
There's other portions of it.
Nursery as I described that had an impact in the sell-down of the distressed inventory towards the end of the quarter.
We didn't get as strong an attachment item performance in nursery which has an impact in margin.
And then when you took -- talk about price actions that we took in EDLP that are stretching out year-over-year that has a minor a very minor portion of that 45 and we're cycling against those changes that we made as we guide into this process in Q3.
So if you're looking at more of a longer-term impact versus a shorter-term impact I was trying to parse that up.
Does that makes sense? Research Division</strong> It does.
I mean so I guess the question -- I mean not -- I don't want to over think this but -- so we had the weaker gross margins this quarter.
And with all that you're doing the line reviews and the move to more of an EDLP strategy how should we -- is there -- should we put those 2 factors together? Or is it more -- was the gross margin decline as a result of the promotional activity more of a one-time -- more of a kind of a seasonal effect this time? Heavily impacted by decisions we made to increase big-ticket promotions that played out in -- basically in July.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could follow up with a bigger picture question just on the overall environment you made some comments in your prepared remarks about the housing recovery.
As you look at the data you've seen recently maybe since the last time we spoke a quarter ago I mean how was your view -- as a company how is the view of the overall housing environment as that relates to home improvement demand evolving? Brian this is Robert.
Overall I think macro -- the overall macro environment certainly has its challenges out there.
While there have been some positive signs out there in housing certainly there's a lot of that in sales and housing prices and stuff have been really driven by a change in the mix of houses available.
We started to sell through some of the distressed inventory that's out there so that's led to increase in home prices.
Housing turnover is up but certainly it is down from the peak it was prior to the downturn.
So we are encouraged by the positive signs out there in housing.
Obviously unemployment is still a challenge in the large macro -- overall macro environment are still a challenge and a headwind going forward.
We don't know what will -- what -- how demand will be impacted by that but certainly we think housing is nearing the bottom of the cycle.
And as we get through the election get into 2013 we hope that there'll be some tailwinds coming out of housing but we're not looking at anything -- any type of a dramatic tailwind coming from housing.
So...
So your final question then comes from the line of Matthew Fassler from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I've got 2 questions one of a general nature and then a follow-up on promotions.
If you think about the progress that you're making on your internal initiatives and the notion that you're going a bit slower than perhaps you anticipated where would you say the slowness is? Is it in the internal execution against the plan? Or is it customer reception to the changes that you're making? If you could differentiate between the 2.
Matt in -- I'll start in VIP it's -- or value improvement program it is customer recognition of the changes that we're making in the marketplace and as that recognition turns into comparable sales and margin generation.
As we -- as I described earlier we're on target with our execution of the line reviews and our execution of the resets as we described last quarter and that progress is going well.
But I think we're just being a little more realistic about customers' perception of certain categories that we reset.
So Matt it's Robert.
Still optimistic about what are de-leveraged just we were probably overoptimistic -- overly optimistic as to how quickly those benefits would begin to accrue.
But we still longer term think the benefits are there and are optimistic about where we de-lever and what it will mean for the future so.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then my second question relates to promotional activity.
It seems like there is some zigging and some zagging over the course of the quarter.
So with that in mind you give us comp -- just a comp trajectory during the quarter.
What do the gross profit dollar trajectory look like? And is there a change in the value approach that you're seeking to pursue? I'm trying to see where the moves that you made intra quarter sort of fit in within that -- within the philosophy that you had put forth initially.
Matt this is Bob.
So roughly through the middle of the quarter gross margin was close to flat with last year.
As Greg indicated there was a bit of an overcorrection regarding promotions and then just responding to a prior question noted that the largest big-ticket impact was felt in July.
So it actually got a little bit worse in the big-ticket categories towards the end of the quarter which is why when Peter asked me about the start to this quarter I did note that gross margins are essentially flat to last year through 2 weeks.
Again 2 weeks doesn't make a quarter.
Matt regarding the composition of the promotions when we look to the second half what we're -- what we are planning for and executing is a more balanced approach to it.
And the way I would describe that would be whether it's our execution of the focal points of each weekend coming up or whether it's the promotional vehicles itself with -- it's a tad mixed.
We're looking for a more balanced approach to ticket-driving items and especially what you would call anchor items which are items which you build attachment rates around and more project-starter type items.
As we will get a better mix out from that on a gross margin basis which is key because we're trying to make sure that just driving sales without it we recognize the impact of that.
As always thanks for your continued interest in Lowe's.
We look forward to speaking with you again when we report our third quarter 2012 results on November 19.
Have a great day.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the Lowe's Companies Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management's expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
Those risks are described in the company's earnings release and in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Also during this call management will be using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find a reconciliation to the mostly directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other information about them posted on Lowe's Investor Relations website under Investor Documents.
Hosting today's conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock Chairman President and CEO; Mr.
Greg Bridgeford Chief Customer Officer; and Mr.
Bob Hull Chief Financial Officer.
I would now turn the program over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in Lowe's.
Following my remarks Greg Bridgeford will review our operational performance and Bob Hull will review our financial results in detail.
But first let me express our sympathy for all those impacted by the devastating effects of Superstorm Sandy.
I also want to express my sincere appreciation for the Lowe's team members who have worked so diligently to get supplies to the affected area both before and after the storm and for those who are working diligently to staff and support our stores as we help communities recover from the damage.
While roughly 200 of our stores were in the affected area we only had 1 store that remained closed for an extended period of time due to severe water damage.
That store in Rosedale New York reopened last Wednesday and stands ready to assist the community.
As we've done in the past when national disaster strikes Lowe's stores around the country as well as Lowes.com become official donation sites for the American Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund.
Lowe's is contributing $1 million to the relief efforts through the American Red Cross and other partner organizations.
Turning now to our operating performance.
We are keenly focused on improving our core business.
In the U.S.
we're focused on 2 large bodies of work this year: value improvement and product differentiation.
Together they will enable us to compete more effectively in the current macroeconomic environment.
These focus areas build on Lowe's core strengths and are expected to deliver comp transaction growth and better gross margins by localizing assortments driving excitement in our stores through better display techniques and managing an appropriate balance of product cost and retail pricing.
We continue to make progress and are encouraged by early results.
By mid-2013 we will have completed this work and expect these efforts to provide meaningful comp and gross margin benefits.
As I've said we are focused and our level of execution is improving.
In the third quarter we furthered our efforts to strike the right promotional cadence drove more items per ticket and made tough decisions in order to manage capacity and further our progress on value improvement.
We delivered solid results for the third quarter.
Comparable store sales were positive 1.8% with a slight increase in comp transactions and a 1.6% increase in comp average ticket.
12 of 14 product categories ended the quarter with a positive comp.
In fact nearly 2/3 of the categories generated comps above the company average including big-ticket categories such as cabinets and appliances -- cabinets and countertops and appliances.
Building materials was the only significant drag in the quarter which resulted from the headwind we faced from last year's substantial tornado and hurricane repairs.
We continue to see strength in our commercial business which outperformed the company average in the third quarter.
Our commercial business is roughly 25% of our sales.
Gross margin expanded 26 basis points in the third quarter driven by a number of factors that Bob will discuss including benefits from our value improvement program.
We continued to effectively control operating expense in the quarter and delivered earnings per share of $0.35 which included approximately $0.05 of charges related to long-lived asset impairments discontinued projects and the change in the discount rate applied to self-insurance claims.
Delivering on our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders in the third quarter we repurchased $850 million or 29.6 million shares of stock and paid $184 million in dividends.
Recent news regarding the housing market indicates that it is on the mend which provides a glimmer of hope in what has been a sluggish recovery.
But overall consumers remain cautiously optimistic as they perceive the path to recovery to be a bumpy one.
According to our most recent consumer sentiment study the majority of homeowners indicate that their spending is staying the same or declining compared to a year ago.
And of those homeowners who continue to delay home improvement projects the majority report a lack of income growth as the primary reason and almost half cite a reluctance to use financing.
So as we look out into the fourth quarter and early next year we consider that backdrop.
In fact according to our study the overwhelming majority of projects planned in the next 3 months are for tickets under $500.
This further underscores the importance of the work we are doing around value improvement and product differentiation to drive transactions.
You'll hear more about our focus areas and our commitment to deliver better customer experiences at our Analyst and Investor Conference on December 5.
Thanks again for your interest.
Greg? Thanks Robert and good morning everyone.
I'd like to dive a little deeper into our quarterly results and update you in the progress of our 2 focus areas: value improvement and product differentiation.
During our second quarter call I emphasized our focus on driving improved results over the short and mid-term.
So I'm pleased that in the third quarter we showed sequential improvement from our second quarter comp and margin performance as we enhance our promotional planning and execution and begin to benefit from value improvement resets.
As Robert noted 12 of our 14 product categories had positive comps.
I'd like to highlight a few.
Within lawn and garden we were prepared with ample inventory to help customers rebound from the second quarter heat and drought and we drove improved attachment rates with strong sales in lot goods fertilizers soil rocks and mulch.
Paint continued to benefit from its value improvement line review and reset in which we developed 4 new color collections 1 for each season and introduced premixed samples in clear sample jars.
We also simplified our offering of paint applicators creating a bay that is much easier for the customers to choose from providing national brands where they are valued and offering a clear progression of features and brand relevance at increasing price points.
In big-ticket categories such as cabinets and countertops and appliances we drove positive comps and higher gross margin rate by more effectively managing promotions.
While lumber had the highest comp in the quarter it was mostly driven by inflation.
On the other hand building materials finished the quarter with double-digit negative comps as it continued to face headwinds from last year's substantial tornado and hurricane repairs.
Tools and outdoor power equipment and hardware showed solid performance throughout the quarter but particularly benefited from storm preparations during the last week of the quarter when we supplied large quantities of generators flashlights and batteries to customers preparing for Superstorm Sandy.
Our merchant logistics and store teams worked closely together to identify what products would be needed before and after Sandy and pre-staged them in appropriate stores and distribution centers.
As it relates to our business most major storms have 4 distinct phases: first preparation when customers buy products in anticipation of the storm; second impact when the storm actually causes damage; third cleanup when customers clean up their properties and assess the damage; and fourth recovery when they begin to make repairs and replace objects lost or damaged in the storm.
Our third quarter included preparation impact and some initial cleanup from Sandy.
During the impact phase over 140 stores in the immediate area had their normal operating hours impacted and surrounding stores experienced reduced traffic.
We expect cleanup to continue into the fourth quarter and recovery to begin in the fourth quarter and extend into 2013.
Bob will share further details about the effect of Sandy in his comments.
Turning to our strategic focus areas.
Our most immediate priority is to improve our product sales business model through our value improvement program.
As a reminder through this initiative we are seeking to improve our product line designs making them more relevant to each of the markets we serve easier for customers to shop and more efficient for our associates to maintain.
This includes reducing duplication of features and functions within price points and reinvesting inventory in key high-velocity items customers expect us to have in stock including job lot quantities needed to complete large projects.
We're also working to lower first cost through more disciplined line reviews and by redirecting vendor promotional and marketing support dollars to lower unit costs.
We made good progress in the third quarter and expect to complete line reviews representing approximately 90% of our business by the end of the fiscal year.
We are exceeding our inventory reduction goal and are making further progress relative to our cost reduction goal.
We expect to reset 40% to 50% of our business by the end of the fiscal year.
The resets associated with the line review process are peaking now in early fourth quarter.
I've been pleased with our ability to mitigate disruption through increasingly efficient execution of these resets.
Our team of in-house product service associates has reset products during nonpeak hours and the cross-functional value improvement team has used our markdown optimization tool to minimize the dollar -- margin dollar impact on clearance product sales.
In fact despite clearance sales increasing by more than 80% in the third quarter the clearance impact overall gross margin rate was roughly the same as last year.
Keep in mind that the financial benefit of value improvement is greatest once we are past clearance and have begun selling only new assortment products.
I'd like to share the performance of the product lines that are past the reset and clearance process.
For these product lines we estimate that we have obtained an average mid-single-digit comp sales lift and nearly a full percentage point improvement in gross margin rate while also reducing inventory.
And our customer surveys indicate that the reception of our product availability has improved over the third quarter of last year.
To provide more color I'd like to share some initial results from our tile reset.
This is a great example of where we used the accelerated line review process to improve the design of our lines through consumer insights worked with the vendor partners to generate innovative product and display ideas used new analytical capabilities to tailor our offering to each market and simplified our assortment make it easier for customers to choose the right products for their needs.
Our merchandising team started with the consumer insights.
Tile customers generally want trend-relevant styles and high quality at a reasonable price not brands.
The team also used new analytical capabilities to group all domestic stores into 4 clusters each with unique combinations of size style and color.
And the team set clear specific and firm expectations with our vendor partners to motivate them to bring great products and ideas to the line review.
The result was that we were able to simplify the shopping experience while expanding meaningful options.
For instance we previously carried 9 different SKUs in 1 particular size and color family resulting in considerable inventory invested in multiple products that looked essentially the same.
Offering this many SKUs overcomplicated the customer's decision.
The solution the team dropped some of the duplicate SKUs and added new wood looks and contemporary and larger-sized tile which are more in line with current trends.
In total we were able to reduce tile inventory by more than 20% through SKU and cost reductions even while reinvesting in more inventory of our most popular SKUs and in new styles and sizes making our tile aisle more inspiring and relevant for customers.
Product differentiation is another focus area to improve operating performance.
We've revised many of our endcap locations to highlight innovative new products and significant values leading into a category.
We've also revamped the promotional spaces for drop zones to promote seasonally relevant high-value items to drive sales.
To date we have reset over 1 250 of our 1 700 domestic stores.
The results of these changes in endcap and promotional spaces have continued to improve as we have adjusted the mix of endcap themes and improved the rotation of products.
We believe there are further opportunities to improve performance through better endcap item selection increased depth of supporting inventory and better adjacencies of endcap items to the associated in-line inventory.
As we progress through the fourth quarter we expect to continue improving our execution of retail basics continuing the momentum of our value improvement and product differentiation programs.
At our Analyst and Investor Conference I look forward to further describing these programs and sharing why they are so important to our core business.
We will also discuss the development of new capabilities over the next 24 months to drive deeper more meaningful relationships with home improvement customers.
Thank you for your interest in Lowe's and I'll now turn it over to Bob.
Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
As noted in our earnings release there is a week shift in fiscal 2012 as a result of 2011's 53rd week.
Sales for the third quarter were $12.1 billion which represents a 1.9% increase over last year's third quarter.
The increase was driven by a comp sales increase of 1.8% and new stores offset slightly by the impact of prior year store closings and the calendar week shift impact which we estimate to be $62 million or 0.5%.
In Q3 total average ticket increased 2.1% to $63.11 while total customer transaction decreased 0.2%.
The decline in total transactions was due to the impact of the week shift.
Looking at monthly trends.
Comps were 0.4% in August 3.4% in September and 1.3% in October.
For the quarter comp average ticket increased 1.6% and comp transactions were up 0.2%.
Transitioning to the comp drivers for Q3 lumber inflation aided comps by 65 basis points.
We estimate that our focus areas value improvement and product differentiation drove 50 basis points of comp in the quarter.
Additionally we estimate that our proprietary credit value proposition which offers customers a choice of 5% off every day or promotional financing positively impacted Q3 comps by 40 basis points.
We estimate that sales related to Hurricanes Isaac and Sandy this year were essentially offset by comparisons to the sales related to Hurricane Irene last year.
With regard to product categories the categories that performed above average in the third quarter include lumber tools and outdoor power equipment lawn and garden cabinets and countertops paint home fashion storage and cleaning appliances and hardware.
In addition fashion electrical flooring and plumbing performed essentially in line with the company average.
Year-to-date sales of $39.5 billion represent a 2.3% increase over 2011.
The increase was driven by a comp sales increase of 1.3%; the calendar week shift impact which we estimate to be $192 million or 0.5%; and a slight increase in square footage.
Gross margins for the third quarter were 34.32% of sales an increase of 26 basis points over last year's third quarter.
The increase in gross margin was driven by a number of factors.
Inflation helped gross margin by 14 basis points.
Favorable distribution cost aided gross margin by 10 basis points.
Our value improvement program helped gross margin by approximately 10 basis points as we more effectively managed promotional activity and began to realize the benefits from our product line review resets.
Slightly offsetting these items our proprietary credit value proposition negatively impacted gross margin by 9 basis points as the penetration of proprietary credit increased roughly 200 basis points over last year's third quarter to 25.1% of sales.
Year-to-date gross margins of 34.3% represents a decrease of 36 basis points from 2011.
SG&amp;A for Q3 was 25.03% of sales which deleveraged 224 basis points.
In the third quarter we incurred long-lived asset impairment and discontinued project expenses of $52 million.
This compares to $356 million in similar charges last year which included the charges associated with store closings.
This resulted in 257 basis points of SG&amp;A leverage in this year's third quarter.
We experienced approximately 9 basis points of leverage associated with our proprietary credit program which is driven by higher portfolio income.
Slightly offsetting these items was deleverage of contract labor risk insurance and incentive compensation expense.
Contract labor for information technology projects deleveraged 22 basis points in the quarter.
This was driven by expenses related to our services platform project and timing of payments relative to last year.
Risk insurance deleveraged 19 basis points in the quarter.
We are self-insured for claims related to workers' comp and general liabilities.
Due to the duration of the claims we discount our liability.
Given the current interest rate environment we reduced the discount rate applied to incurred but not reported claims by 100 basis points in the quarter.
This 1% reduction to the discount rate decreased insurance expense by $33 million.
For the quarter incentive compensation expense deleveraged 13 basis points.
Our sales and service employee incentive program rewards our store employees for achieving their sales and profitability targets and for delivering outstanding customer service.
Approximately 7% more stores earned an incentive in Q3 relative to last year.
Year-to-date SG&amp;A is 23.91% of sales and leveraged 93 basis points to the first 9 months of 2011 driven primarily by last year's long-lived asset impairments and other costs associated with store closings and discontinued projects.
Depreciation totaled $371 million or 3.08% of sales and deleveraged 3 basis points compared with last year's third quarter.
Earnings before interest and taxes or operating margin increased 247 basis points to 6.21% of sales.
Year-to-date operating margin was 7.58% of sales.
Interest expense at $114 million deleveraged 18 basis points as a percentage of sales.
The increase in interest expense relates to debt offering subsequent to our decision last year to increase our leverage target.
For the quarter total expenses were 29.06% of sales and leveraged 203 basis points.
Pretax earnings for the quarter were $635 million or 5.26% of sales.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 37.6%.
For the third quarter we reported earnings per share of $0.35.
The earnings per share impact of charges related to long-lived asset impairments discontinued projects and the change in the discount rate applied to self-insurance claims was approximately $0.05 for the quarter.
Now I'd like to comment on the balance sheet starting with assets.
Cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of the quarter was $1.1 billion.
At the end of the quarter inventory was almost $9 billion which was flat to last year.
Inventory turnover calculated by taking the trailing 4 quarters' cost of sales divided by average inventory for the last 5 quarters was 3.75 an increase of 15 basis points over Q3 2011.
Return on assets determined using a trailing 4 quarters' earnings divided by average assets for the last 5 quarters increased 50 basis points to 5.74%.
Next I'd like to highlight a few items from the liabilities section of the balance sheet.
At the end of the third quarter our accounts payable balance was $5.4 billion or 3% higher than last year.
The increase in accounts payable relates to the timing of purchases.
At the end of the quarter our lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 2.17x.
Return on invested capital measured using a trailing 4 quarters' earnings plus tax adjusted interest divided by average debt and equity for the last 5 quarters increased 96 basis points to 9.39%.
Now looking at the statement of cash flows.
Cash flow from operations was $3.5 billion.
Cash used in property acquired was $947 million compared with almost $1.3 billion for the same period last year.
As a result the year-to-date free cash flow was approximately $2.6 billion.
During the quarter we repurchased 29.6 million shares at an average price of $28.68 for a total repurchase amount of $850 million.
We have $900 million remaining on our share repurchase authorization.
Also in Q3 we repaid $550 million of debt that had matured.
Before I get into our business outlook I want to remind everyone that fiscal 2011 was a 53-week year which will impact our fourth quarter comparisons in 2 ways.
First the extra week contributed $766 million in sales to Q4 last year.
This will negatively impact 2012 sales growth by 6.6% for the fourth quarter and 1.5% for the year.
In addition the extra week contributed approximately $0.05 per share to last year's diluted earnings per share.
Second last year's 53rd week caused the calendar week shift for fiscal 2012.
The calendar week shift positively impacted year-to-date sales by $192 million but is expected to negatively impact fourth quarter sales by the same $192 million or 1.7%.
The week shift is forecasted to negatively impact earnings per share by $0.02.
The week shift has no impact on comparable store sales.
Looking ahead for 2012 we expect total sales to be approximately flat to last year.
On a 52- versus 52-week basis the sales increase would be approximately 2%.
We expect comp sales to increase approximately 1%.
In addition we expect to open approximately 10 stores resulting in a slight increase in square footage.
For the fiscal year we're anticipating an EBIT increase of approximately 40 basis points.
We expect depreciation expense of about $1.5 billion.
The effective tax rate is forecasted to be approximately 37.7%.
The sum of these inputs should yield earnings per share of approximately $1.64 which represents an increase of 15% over 2011.
As a reminder our guidance is based on GAAP so the nonoperating charges for long-lived asset impairments discontinued projects the change in the discount rate applied to self-insurance and the voluntary separation program which total approximately $0.08 per share are included in the $1.64.
For the year we're forecasting cash flows from operations to be approximately $3.4 billion which is modestly lower than our prior forecast due to working capital.
Our capital forecast for 2012 is approximately $1.35 billion with roughly $50 million funded by operating leases resulting in cash capital expenditures of approximately $1.3 billion.
This results in an estimated free cash flow of $2.1 billion for 2012.
Our guidance assumes approximately $550 million in additional share repurchases for a total $4.15 billion for the year.
For the year we expect that lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR will be at or below 2.25x.
Regina we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you give us a little bit more detail regarding the comments about once you're past the reset and clearance stages that the mid-single-digit comp how much of your SKU mix is that? And how much did we actually see during the quarter? And what kind of timeframe are we talking about? Is this just over like the initial 2 or 3 months? Or do we have a longer track record than that? Yes Scot.
That's the track record since the categories that we've had to go through a reset have actually stabilized from an inventory standpoint.
In other words I don't have inventory flowing in to fill in the new set.
I don't have inventory clearance that would be creating noise on the numbers.
So that is the continuing comp performance of the summation of that through what now is about 2.5 months of stabilization of categories.
And as I mentioned last quarter we only had a handful of categories that had reached that if you want to call it normalization stage.
In this quarter we're seeing the results -- we're seeing those results about between 3 and 4 dozen categories have reached that normalization stage now and more coming every week.
LLC Research Division</strong> So what -- Greg what is that on a percentage of mix basis I guess? 3 to 4 dozen categories out of -- I guess I honestly don't know what that's out of.
Sure.
It's still in the range.
We're still under 20% at this point of categories that have normalized.
Your next question will come from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My first question I know it's a little hard with the extra week but can you give us a feel for the fourth quarter gross margin and SG&amp;A? I know year-over-year would be a tougher comparison.
So sequentially how will that look Bob? So Budd yes there are a lot of moving pieces associated with the week shift impact.
As you know we had a significant drop in gross margin for the fourth quarter last year.
So we do anticipate an increase in gross margin in Q4 this year.
The expected increase will be a bit larger than the 26 basis points that we saw in Q3 so we're making continued progress on the line reviews.
As Greg described we're early in the process of resetting stores.
We're seeing good benefit but there's still a very small percentage that's been fed to date.
As we continue to reset additional lines we'll continue to see greater improvement in both sales the comp impact from those new sets as well as gross margin.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up if you could the rate of share repurchase has a bit slowed.
And obviously I think your guidance also gives an additional slowing.
With the improvement in stock price how do you think now about share repurchase going forward? And can you maybe give us a little color on that? Sure.
So our stock price certainly has improved today relative to the $28.68 average share repurchase price in Q3.
And as we take a look at a long-term financial performance we still feel that the stock is attractive at the current price.
The modest decline in share repurchases for the year really relates to the decline in cash flow from operations.
As I mentioned we've got a bit of a working capital drag relative to 90 days but nothing substantial.
So that's contributing to the decline in net working capital as relates to APU is just timing.
Your next question will come from the line of Dave Gober with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to touch on SG&amp;A a little bit.
It seemed like excluding the charges you saw some nice improvement there and actually a little bit of a decline year-over-year.
Anything that you could point to there? And is that -- did you foresee that being sustainable over the next few quarters? So as we talked about we're working on a number of things to kind of right-size our cost structure.
As you know we took some assets last year including store closings and realigning the field structure.
We implemented the voluntary separation program early this year.
We continue to realign our corporate office.
The store teams continue to evaluate opportunities to serve customers in a more efficient fashion.
So there's not any one thing I could point to Dave.
There's a number of things that are kind of in flight that we've referenced in our progression to 10% operating profit in 2015 at the analyst conference last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my follow-up is on Canada.
Just wondering if you could comment at all.
Obviously there's been a bit of a saga there with the interest in RONA and then retracting the interest in RONA now some movement in management at RONA.
Could you just give us any kind of updated thoughts on how you're thinking about Canada and maybe in particular RONA given some of the changes there? Yes Dave.
It's Robert.
Certainly any comments with regard to any specific company would not be appropriate.
Or anything about the change in management as to why that took place it's not appropriate for us to comment on that.
I think as we've said before we like Canada from a market standpoint.
It's – but we're pleased with the performance of our 32 stores.
I think we've got a couple of more opening before the end of the year.
We're continuing to make improvements in the operations of those stores but we need more scale.
And so the scales we've talked about is going to come from opening additional big-box stores looking at other formats.
We just launched in October our e-commerce site in Canada.
So that's a big plus where now our consumers can buy online have a product either shipped to their home or pick it up in store.
And I think we've got over 30 000 items available on the website.
So we think that was a competitive disadvantage previously in the market.
And we'll also continue to look at acquisitions as a potential way for expansion.
So we're going to evaluate all options.
But as far as any comments with regard to where we stand with a particular company it would not be appropriate for me to address.
Your next question will come from the line of Colin McGranahan with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> First question on value improvement.
It sounds like you said you were doing better than expected on the inventory reductions and making progress on value improvement.
Can you give us an update on where you are how those discussions have gone with vendors whether you still think the endpoint is the same? And just a little bit of additional color on the progress you're making there.
Sure Colin.
This is Greg.
Be happy to.
We are making good progress on the inventory reduction efforts through the line review process.
And then as we reset the lines as you know reinvesting a portion of that reduction back into the higher velocity categories.
On the cost side we have made good progress since we've begun the accelerated product line review rotation.
And to be honest with you the way we're looking at this is that this is an ongoing commitment to disciplined line review process.
So while we are focused on -- we've talked about goals of inventory reduction in the 10% range and cost reduction in the 5% range we recognize this is a long-term process to basically to improve continually improve our entire operating model from the product sales standpoint.
And it's not going to happen over a quarter it's not going to happen -- this is a commitment to something that we're going to do within our merchandising logistics and operating ranks longer term.
So that's -- we're seeing continual progress as we continue to cycle through the first rotation of the accelerated product line review processes.
And we're actually will come into 2013 and begin second cycles of some product categories.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So of the resets the category department resets that are done something a little under 20% of the product categories are you achieving that endpoint in those categories the 5% out of COGS? Or is that kind of you didn't expect to get there in the first wave and you'll kind of get there over time? We're making progress.
We've exceeded our inventory goals Colin.
We are work -- making progress towards our cost-reduction goals.
And obviously there's about a half dozen product line reviews going on right now.
So it's good progress.
I like the trends that we're seeing.
And it's a continual commitment to do this.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then just a quick follow-up.
Obviously we're all focused on how the performance of the reset categories is going.
Of that 20% in 2 3 months Greg what kind of a standard deviation are you seeing there? Are you seeing pretty consistent results? Or is this still kind of all over where some category resets are fantastic and others hardly see any lift? No I would categorize this into 2 buckets Colin.
I said we're below 20% right now.
I wasn't giving 20% as a pinpoint.
But I'd categorized it into 2 buckets of product.
One is the in-line interior or exterior steady-state demand type product.
And I would say that the paint example the flooring example that we've been pretty public with are good examples of that hardware rough plumbing rough electrical.
Then there are some seasonal categories and some commodity categories where we have seen more variability.
That's expected.
And that's where we have seen the variability within the numbers.
The steady-state more predictable demand categories are performing within a much tighter band and they're performing above expectations.
Your next question will come from the line of Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> 2 questions.
One is a housekeeping.
Could you give us the breakdown of the bigger tickets versus smaller ticket and how they did? Then I have a cash flow question.
Sure Greg.
So as we take a look at the ticket buckets the below $50 were approximately positive 1.3%.
The above $500 were up approximately 2.5% with everything in the middle being up roughly 1.6%.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on cash flow.
Earlier in the year we started I believe with a $4.0 billion cash from operations estimate.
And I think it was $3.5 billion and now $3.4 billion.
Is there something going on with working capital that sort of made that one-off $600 million switch because it actually looks like working capital has been pretty good especially this quarter.
So help us understand how the cash from operations actually progressed this year.
Sure.
So if you go back to the beginning of the year I think our initial estimate was that at year end inventory would be roughly $400 million below year-end 2011.
The current estimate is about $200 million lower end of '12 relative to end of '11.
Second AP was a bit higher relative to inventory up 3% end of Q3 against a flat inventory.
But as we forecasted timing of purchases for the year it's still expected to be a modest drag relative to initial expectations.
And then the third item Colin -- I mean Greg excuse me relates to deferred taxes as we evaluated the impact of bonus depreciation last year.
So if you think about the large CapEx spend principally in IT the opportunity to fully appreciate that in 2011 gave us a nice benefit cash flow benefit in 2011.
We're now cycling against that in 2012 where booked depreciation is in fact higher than tax depreciation.
So those are really 3 big drivers of the reduction in cash flow from operations relative to our initial expectations on the Q4 2011 call.
Research Division</strong> Would it be fair to characterize the first 2 as sort of a normal on the inventory and the AP is that this year you'll be at a normal state given the line reviews and where you want the business to be? What do you define as normal set? I'm not sure...
Research Division</strong> Well I mean because with working capital things can put and take and it can be timed into a given year right or week.
So I guess is that $200 million down in inventory do you think that's now the right run rate for inventory whereas before you thought it was $400 million? Has there something changed I guess through the line reviews that would have made that change? So generally speaking yes it's a normal course of business it's the pushes and pulls of running a business.
However we talked about on the Q1 call the cadence of the line reviews were going to take a little bit longer than expected so there's a small impact from that.
But generally speaking it is just the normal puts and takes.
Your next question will come from the line of Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On the gross margin side you mentioned that the benefit the categories that you reset you saw 100 basis point improvement on the gross margin side.
Can you talk about what components are in there? How much of that is big buckets lower volume costs lower markdowns? And is there any lapping of markdowns as you put those categories under initial line review in the prior year? Chris this is Greg.
It is a combination of lower first cost through the accelerated product line review process.
And we're experiencing above-expectation performance in gross margin of our nonproductive inventory a.k.a.
clearance items.
And I credit that to a joint effort on the part of the merchants the logisticians and a tremendous commitment by the operators to make sure that we sell through this clearance inventory at as much full margin as possible.
And the way it's been handled it's been -- we've been selling a lot of product in line and a lot of product off of a couple of promotional space or drops in spaces we've devoted to clearance inventory and now a couple of endcaps that we're devoting to clearance inventory.
So good success there and combined with a good positive first cost reduction on key categories that we're seeing the benefit of through the accelerated product line review process.
Research Division</strong> So I mean as you cycle over time that you would expect 100 basis points of gross margin expansion over the next however 12- 24-month timeframe? Well it depends on the categories that are being reviewed at that time Chris.
So you'll see some variation in that number.
But our expectations of obviously first cost reduction through the product line review process.
And I don't really -- I mean I think we've said set some very good standards and excellent processes to drive the nonproductive inventory gross margin productivity.
I expect that to continue.
But you'll see some variation as different categories get reviewed through the oncoming months before we begin to cycle our first series of this product line reviews which was late late last year.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then as a follow-up just on Sandy.
You mentioned that Sandy and Isaac were neutral versus Irene a year ago.
I'm not sure if you cut it this finely but did October's 1.2% comp did you actually see any lift there from Sandy? And do you expect Sandy to become a net positive in the coming quarters? So Chris as we take a look at the impacts fourth quarter Sandy helped about 30 basis points.
Isaac helped about 30 basis points.
Irene hurt about 65 basis points so a modest drag from the aggregate of the 3.
We didn't go specifically determine the impact of Sandy on Q3.
But if you take -- what would be hard to do the math on 4 weeks out of 13 weeks given the 30 basis points.
Looking forward we believe there is some upside related to Hurricane Sandy.
We certainly want to be there for folks as communities rebuild.
It's very difficult for us to estimate what the potential impact is going forward.
But as we have later quarters we'll tell you what the estimated impact was for that quarter.
Your next question will come from the line of Gary Balter with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about the endcaps kind of some of the programs that are working and some that you feel need to be changed and how that rollout has gone? Sure I will Gary.
This is Greg.
Couple of key categories within the endcap and drop zone programs that are all part of product differentiation that -- or have been highlights in the program is the innovation endcaps where we're focusing effort to bring new products to the market and in some cases new categories such as connected home through our launch of our high-risk connected home platform for customers.
The key to that is being able to demystify some of these innovations and bring them -- bring customers' interaction with them.
So the way that we've been able to communicate through running videos on the endcaps have driven sales of those products actually in excess of expectations.
The other category of endcaps that have done very well are the value endcaps.
And what previously I mentioned that I think we can make there are aligning them closer to the categories that they are home to and make them pull-in to the categories.
Whether it's rough plumbing whether it's lighting whether it's a seasonal category make sure that the adjacency is correct for that.
We've not done the greatest job of that since we started the program.
We're making improvements for that every month and as we cycle in new products making sure that the adjacencies are stronger and that the items that we pick are more impactful.
So we've seen sequential improvement in the productivity particularly in the innovation endcaps particularly in the value endcaps and in specific drop zones.
And we're working we're taking that information and improving it every month as it goes along.
And it's run by a cross-functional team lots of input from operations about what's working and what's not working and a lot of the effort from logistics to make sure that we're backing those endcaps with the proper amount of inventory.
Research Division</strong> What's not working in that area? I think again I'd say that adjacencies haven't been our strong spot so we have a heavy focus on that.
We've made improvements in those in the last 3 months.
And as we cycle through the placement of new product I would say that we've done -- made big steps to correct that problem area.
The other category that I would say that did not work very well were some of the theme endcaps such as creative ideas.
It's a great concept.
It's bringing together aspects of an entire project for the customer.
But in some cases the effort to try to get a customer to connect with the 6 different components of a product really rail against our mantra of keep it simple.
Research Division</strong> And just following up on that just the -- and where are you on the rollout of these endcaps? Of creative endcaps ideas endcaps? Research Division</strong> Yes.
They're done they're done.
We took them out.
So we're making running changes to make improvements in this particular program.
Your next question will come from the line of Dan Binder with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's Dan Binder.
My question revolved around your question -- your comment about the gross margin performance of the reset items.
I think you said they were up about 100 basis points.
So if we look back last year I think your gross margin was down about 55 basis points and first half of this year down about 60 basis points.
So what I'm curious about is are we essentially going to get back to where we were before the process began such that the end result is really a comp driver more so than a gross margin driver? Dan I think the number was down 99 basis points Q3 last year of margin.
The short answer is yes.
If you think about the gross margin outlook that we shared at the analyst conference last fall we still think those targets are appropriate.
So as Greg and the team take a look at the line design yes there are certainly margin opportunity like reconstructing the line design to be better market-assorted should also drive top line improvement which is what we're looking for.
This never wasn't intended to be solely on margins it was having line design that was more reflective of the local market opportunity that we thought we were missing.
Dan another -- this is Greg.
Another positive impact on gross margins for the quarter was we stated at the end of the second quarter that we knew we could manage our promotional activities better.
And the [indiscernible] on driving anchor items which would improve attachment rates and balancing that with traffic-driving items that was a keen focus in Q3.
And it's paid off.
So I think our promotional efforts are much more accretive from a gross margin standpoint.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes Bob I was referring to all of last year on the 55 bps.
But just as a follow-on sometimes I think you guys will comment on kind of how the beginning of the quarter is going.
Any thoughts now that we're sort of well into the cleanup and hopefully some of the recovery on Sandy? So as we talked about the estimated impact of Sandy is very difficult to estimate.
We're watching [indiscernible] of what's taking place with the fiscal cliff.
We're also mindful of comparisons relative to last year specifically a very difficult January.
So we're off to the start we expected to be and we're comfortable with the outlook we just provided.
Our next question will come from the line of Michael Lasser with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the puts and takes on your traffic during the third quarter? Are you starting to see the housing recovery benefit your traffic? It seemed to be up just slightly during the period.
So Michael it was up 0.2% in the quarter comp traffic was; a variety of items.
Greg talked about the lawn and garden performance with the attachment rates.
Our commercial business was up actually a little better than the company average.
I think it's a little early to suggest that housing has a material impact on our business.
We certainly think as we get into 2013 and the housing recovery continues to gain traction we'll start to see more of that benefit as we move forward.
But I think it's a little premature to see that show up in our numbers at this point.
Research Division</strong> Were there vast geographic differences on your overall comp performance? Not too wide.
A very narrow band relative to what we've seen a number of years ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question is on the guidance.
I believe you lowered your EBIT margin expectation for the quarter -- for the year.
Can you talk about what made that change? Yes.
So we guide off GAAP.
We had some nonoperating charges in Q3.
Those impacted our EBITDA outlook for the year.
Research Division</strong> And nothing changed about the fourth quarter correct? Correct.
Your final question will come from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First of all maybe cutting it a bit finely here.
But your quarter ended a week than it perhaps otherwise might have given the shift in the 53rd week last year.
And so you had I guess Sandy prep sales that fell into I guess the traditional retail fiscal quarter.
And then you had 4 or 5 days that encompassed the storm and its immediate aftermath.
Of the 60 basis points -- or sort of the 30 basis points or so associated with Sandy was most of that before or after if you have a way of cutting it that finely? This is Robert Matt.
I would say most of that would be before because if you think about the storm hit on a Monday night okay Monday night and that our quarter ended on that Friday so 4 days after the storm.
So you've got to consider that starting on Monday you start having store closures.
So you had as Greg said in his comments over 140 stores that had their operating hours impacted to some extent.
By the end of that week we'd gotten all the stores back open except for the Rosedale New York store that I spoke about that opened last Wednesday.
So it was closed for a couple of weeks.
So yes more of it would have been preparatory because you had a lot of stores' operating hours closed and then of course by Friday it was the end of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then my follow-up.
We haven't talked about the MyLowe's portal.
Today obviously a lot seems to be going right on the merchandising side.
But if you think about that online effort can you talk about signups? And can you talk about whether you're seeing commercial impact to M&amp;A from the connections you're making with customers through that portal? Yes I'll start and then I'll turn it over to Greg.
But our activations now unique swipes are up it's about 14.5 million.
We've got over 4 million registered users so continuing to see a great response to MyLowe's.
One of the key items that is used which is a tremendous benefit for customers is the purchase history.
So whether they're buying in-store online no matter what channel if they've got everything out and registered all of those sales they have the history of that out there.
So it's a convenient way for them to be able to manage everything about their home.
So we're seeing great response.
Greg did you have...
Yes Rob I just would mention that now we're up to about 300 000 -- almost 400 000 items on Lowes.com.
The acquisition of ATG has really helped us accelerate the addition of critical relevant items to that experience.
And we're finding that 1 out of 4 customers in some way through their shopping purchase process is in contact with dot-com.
It's in one of those phases.
So the addition of flexible fulfillment has helped quite a bit.
And we're seeing the dot-com revenue the penetration is exceeding expectations right now.
And I would say that there's – in large part helped by the MyLowe's which really is a loyalty program in a sense from that point and Flexible Fulfillment which is giving customers what I think are relevant options to make sure that they can get a product where they want and how they want it.
Research Division</strong> And gentlemen if you profile the customers who swipe MyLowe's and their behavior before they hooked up with the program if you're able to track it versus after that or perhaps just a general characteristic of the customers who's availed themselves of the program any change in their behavior during the time that they've adopted or hooked up with the program? Yes.
Matt they spend more overall.
And they continue to transact more often and they spend more transactions than those customers that aren't in the program.
So those trends continue.
As always thanks for your continued interest in Lowe's.
We look forward to speaking with you again when we report our fourth quarter 2012 results on February 25.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's call.
Thank you all for joining and you may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the Lowe's Companies' Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management's expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
Those risks are described in the company's earnings release and in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Also during this call management will be using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other information about them posted on Lowe's Investor Relations website under Investor Documents.
Hosting today's conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Mr.
Greg Bridgeford Chief Customer Officer; and Mr.
Bob Hull Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the program over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in Lowe's.
Following my remarks Greg Bridgeford will review our operational performance and Bob Hull will review our financial results in detail.
But first I'll provide some highlights of the quarter as well as our view on the economic landscape in 2013.
We delivered solid results in the fourth quarter.
Comparable store sales were positive 1.9% driven by an increase in comp average ticket.
We delivered these results despite tough prior year comparisons from both unseasonably warm weather and a more promotional holiday season.
In fact 10 of 14 product categories had positive comps for the quarter.
We had strength in core categories like plumbing and hardware as well as holiday items like tool gift sets and holiday decor.
We had consistent performance across the U.S.
operating divisions and continued to see strength in our ProServices business which outperformed the company average.
Gross margin expanded 5 basis points in the fourth quarter driven by a number of factors that Bob will discuss including continued benefits from our Value Improvement program.
We continue to effectively control operating expenses in the quarter and delivered earnings per share of $0.26 for the quarter and $1.69 for the year.
Delivering on our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders in the fourth quarter we repurchased $750 million or 21.3 million shares of stock and paid $180 million in dividends.
For the year we repurchased $4.35 billion or 146 million shares of stock and paid $704 million in dividends.
Our solid fourth quarter results are a testament to several factors: first the team's success in driving more balanced performance across the quarter; second the team responded well to the demand created in the Northeast as a result of recovery efforts in the wake of superstorm Sandy; and finally the momentum we're creating with Value Improvement through better line designs better in-stock positions and simplified deal structures as well as the momentum from our product differentiation program.
As we've discussed think of Value Improvement as the inner circle enhancing the core and product differentiation as the outer circle driving excitement and flexibility in our stores.
Incorporating this quarter's solid results 92% of our U.S.
stores qualified for a Service and Sales Employee Incentive or SSEI payment during 2012 making this a record payout year.
As a reminder SSEI is our profit-sharing program for hourly associates.
I'd like to thank our more than 257 000 employees in the field and our corporate office for their perseverance in a year of significant change and for their continued dedication to serving customers.
As we head into fiscal 2013 the team continues to focus on improving our core business through cross-functional collaboration and consistent execution.
We'll complete the initial round of Value Improvement resets in 2013 and we'll add labor hours to our stores as well as incremental inventory all with a focus on improving our close rate.
From an economic perspective lower GDP growth is forecasted for 2013.
And while lower home improvement industry growth is also forecasted it is expected to keep pace with GDP.
Rebuilding in the wake of superstorm Sandy will contribute to 2013 home improvement industry growth although the impact will fade during the year.
Still the fundamental's underlying drivers of industry growth mainly job gains and stable growing housing should support a strengthening growth trajectory for the industry.
Yet credit conditions remain tight for borrowers and mortgage delinquencies remain elevated which will restrain the speed in which housing and therefore the home improvement industry can grow.
Those macroeconomic data points are reading through to our fourth quarter consumer sentiment survey.
According to the survey home value perception ratings are the strongest they have been in 4 years and we continue to see positive trends emerging in other home improvement affinity metrics.
However there are still concerns.
Survey participants that are delaying home improvement projects cited lack of income growth and a reluctance to use financing as the primary drivers influencing their decision.
The macroeconomic transition from recovery to sustainable expansion together with our initiatives in improving operational collaboration give us confidence in our business outlook for 2013.
Bob will share those details in a few minutes.
Thanks again for your interest and I'll now turn it over to Greg.
Thanks Robert.
Good morning everyone.
I'd like to dive a little deeper into our quarterly results update you on the progress of the Value Improvement focused area and discuss our priorities for 2013.
In previous quarters I emphasized our focus on driving improved results over the short and midterm.
So I'm pleased that we delivered solid more balanced comp sales performance across the quarter despite a difficult comparison to prior year.
This quarter's results were driven by enhanced promotional planning and execution our response to increased demand from superstorm Sandy continued benefit from product differentiation and further benefit from Value Improvement.
We started with a disciplined promotional strategy as we offered targeted values on specific items to drive sales and profitability throughout the quarter rather than blanket promotions across entire categories.
Targeted promotions drove above-average performances in cabinets and countertops and in core home improvement categories such as tools and outdoor power equipment.
Sandy also benefited the quarter.
As we discussed during third quarter call most major storms have 4 distinct phases: first preparation; second impact; third cleanup; and fourth recovery.
The cleanup from Sandy began soon after impact at the end of the third quarter and continued well into the fourth quarter.
Recovery began in the fourth quarter and will extend into 2013.
While the storm initially impacted the operating hours of over 140 stores approximately 27 stores have seen a prolonged surge in demand as they meet the recovery needs of the most severely impacted communities.
We estimate that sales associated with Sandy recovery efforts aided fourth quarter comps by approximately 70 basis points.
While rebuilding from Sandy-benefited comps our comp performance for the quarter was well balanced across the country.
Performance was particularly strong in the Gulf regions from Texas to Florida and in the northwest as we responded well to increasing demand in those recovering markets.
We also benefited from our product differentiation resets which were rolled to approximately 1 250 of our stores last year.
Through product differentiation we have revised our endcap locations to highlight innovative new products and significant values and to showcase particular private and national brands.
We've also revamped promotional spaces to better promote seasonally relevant high-value items to drive sales.
These endcap and promotional spaces continue to outperform the other areas of the store and these stores outperform the remaining U.S.
stores.
For example we use the promotional spaces to showcase storage products after the holidays and to display cleaning products driving strong comps in those lines.
We'll be rolling this concept to approximately 160 more stores in 2013.
While product differentiation is being operationalized the Value Improvement program remains our most immediate priority.
Through this initiative we are improving our line designs making them more relevant to each of the markets we serve easier for consumers to shop and more efficient for our associates to maintain.
This includes reducing duplication of features and functions within price points and reinvesting inventory in key high-velocity items customers expect us to have in stock including job lot quantities needed to complete large projects.
We are also working to lower unit costs by negotiating lower first cost and reducing funds set aside by vendors for promotional and marketing support.
We use line reviews and resets to achieve these goals.
During line reviews we use consumer insights to determine what products to carry and which vendors to buy from and then we bring the new assortments and presentations to life in our stores through the reset process.
We've not scheduled our line reviews to front-load their benefit.
Instead we consider a number of factors in determining the sequence of line reviews including the seasonality of the product the time elapsed since a given product line was last reviewed whether the associated merchant teams and vendors are already involved in other line reviews and the interdependencies between lines.
For instance we need to determine what faucet finishes we will sell prior to determining our fashion hardware finishes.
We are making progress.
At the end of the fiscal year we had completed line reviews representing approximately 80% of our business and resets representing over 30% of our business.
We expect to have finished the initial round of resets in 2013.
We continue to adjust the pace of these resets to ensure that customer's experience is not negatively impacted that we continue to offer sufficient inventory by store and by set and that we minimize the margin impact of clearance and the friction experienced by store operators.
The benefits we are seeing from these resets give us confidence that this is the right approach.
As I mentioned last quarter the financial benefit of Value Improvement is greatest once we are past clearance and it begun selling only new assortments.
For product lines in that stage we recorded average mid-single-digits comps and over 100 basis point improvement in gross margin rate.
And our customer surveys indicate that the perception of our product availability has improved over the fourth quarter of last year.
In fact in the fourth quarter we recorded strong seasonal living performance which was driven by holiday decor sales as we used our clustering tools to better tailor assortments to individual stores.
Likewise a number of the product lines within the plumbing category from air filters to toilets have completed their Value Improvement resets and we are seeing strong comp performance in this category.
Value Improvement will remain the primary focus of the organization in 2013.
Even as we are working through our first round of product line reviews and resets the Value Improvement process changes are being operationalized.
We believe we will continue to find ways to improve product lines and likewise close rate by making them more relevant for each store location and offering better features quality and style relative to price by putting more inventory behind the highest volume SKUs and ultimately increasing in-store service level targets across entire product lines as they are reset.
We've also had the opportunity to improve close rate through additional labor hours.
In 2013 we will add approximately 150 hours per week to the staffing model for nearly 2/3 of our stores.
Previously weekday labor hours were heavily skewed towards tasking and we've identified an opportunity to better serve customers and close more sales during the peak weekday hours by increasing the assistance available in the aisles.
We've already started hiring these permanent part-time employees.
We believe the increased labor hours and higher in-stock service levels will help us capitalize on the traffic that we have in our stores today resulting in close rate improvement.
But finally I am pleased to welcome Mike Jones to Lowe's.
Mike has joined the team as our Chief Merchandising Officer.
We took our time and recruited a very talented executive to our organization.
Mike has extensive consumer products experience with both Husqvarna and GE where he managed categories that are relevant to the home improvement business including appliances outdoor power equipment and lighting.
He brings a proven ability to uncover value at all points in the supply chain from raw materials to finished product additional value that can enhance profitability for both Lowe's and our vendors.
His experience in leading businesses as well as identifying and pursuing market opportunities make him an outstanding fit for this position.
Mike will be responsible for the merchandising offering of all Lowe's U.S.
selling channels as well as all global sourcing activities.
He will work closely with leaders of customer experience design marketing operations and logistics to develop and deliver differentiating and seamless customer experiences.
Bob Gfeller's experienced design organization will use consumer insights to identify opportunities and Mike's team will develop specific merchandising programs to meet those opportunities with a particular focus on the breadth and depth of our assortments needed to support customer experiences.
While Mike will no doubt put his stamp on our merchandising organization processes he is committed to the goals of our Value Improvement initiative and to fully operationalize it as we complete the first round of resets in 2013.
He will work to optimize our merchandising processes applying more rigor and process management and improve effectiveness.
I'm personally excited about Mike's arrival and I look forward to the progress our merchandising organization will make under his leadership.
Thank you for your interest in Lowe's and I'll now turn it over to Bob.
Thanks Greg.
Good morning everyone.
Sales for the fourth quarter were $11 billion which represents a 5% decrease from last year's fourth quarter.
In Q4 total transaction count decreased by 6.9% while total average ticket increased 2.1% to $62.37.
The sales and customer count declines were driven by comparisons to 2011's 53rd week partially offset by comp sales and new stores.
As mentioned in the third quarter call 2011's 53rd-week year impacts the fourth quarter in 2 ways.
First the extra week in 2011's fourth quarter contributed $766 million in sales.
This negatively impacted sales growth by 6.7%.
Second last year's extra week caused a counter week shift this year.
We estimate that this negative impact to Q4 2012 was $119 million or 1.1%.
On a comparable 13-week basis sales would be up 2.8% for the quarter.
Comp sales were 1.9% for the quarter which is driven by continued progress against our initiatives lumber inflation and the net impact of weather.
We estimate that our Value Improvement and product differentiation initiatives drove approximately 100 basis points of comp for the quarter.
Also our proprietary credit value proposition which offers customers a choice of 5%-off every day or promotional financing positively impacted Q4 comps by 40 basis points.
Lumber inflation aided comps by approximately 50 basis points.
Now to weather.
In estimating the impact of weather we looked at 2 items.
First we reviewed actual temperature and precipitation versus historical averages.
Second we attempted to isolate the impact of storm activity.
As you might suspect this is not an exact science.
Last year we noted that the favorable weather aided Q4 2011 comps by 150 basis points.
And providing our outlook for this year's fourth quarter we had assumed normal weather.
However weather this year was slightly warmer than normal alleviating some of the headwind from last year resulting in an estimated 40 basis point comp drag.
Moving on to storm impacts.
As Greg mentioned we estimate that sales related to rebuilding in markets impacted by Sandy positively impacted Q4 comps by approximately 70 basis points.
We also continue to see modest positive impact from Isaac.
These were offset slightly by Hurricane Irene comparisons and last year's numbers for a net estimated favorable storm impact of 45 basis points.
In total the net impact of weather had a modest positive impact on Q4 comps.
For the quarter comp average ticket increased 2.1% while comp transactions decreased 0.1%.
The growth in average ticket was driven by both lumber inflation and strength in cabinets and countertops.
Looking at monthly trends comps were flat in November and 3% for December and January.
With regard to product categories the categories that performed above average in the fourth quarter included lumber cabinets and countertops seasonal living plumbing tools and outdoor power equipment and home fashion storage and cleaning.
Lawn and garden and fashion electrical performed at approximately the overall corporate average.
For the year total sales were $50.5 billion an increase of 0.6%.
On a comparable 52-week basis sales were up 2.2%.
The comps were 1.4% for the year.
The balance of the sales increase came from new stores.
For 2012 comp average ticket increased 0.9% and comp transactions increased 0.5%.
For the year the categories that performed above average included lumber tools and outdoor power equipment paint seasonal living cabinets and countertops and home fashions storage and cleaning.
Fashion electrical hardware flooring and plumbing performed at approximately the overall corporate average.
Gross margin for the fourth quarter was 34.27% of sales an increase of 5 basis points over last year's fourth quarter.
Value Improvement helped gross margin by approximately 30 basis points in the quarter.
As we begin the sell-through of new product lines post reset we will continue to see benefit in gross margin.
However the Value Improvement benefit was almost completely offset by the following items.
A proprietary credit value proposition negatively impacted gross margin by 15 basis points as the penetration of proprietary credit increased roughly 160 basis points over last year's fourth quarter to 24.9% of sales.
In addition we had modest negative impacts from mix of products sold and inventory shrink.
For the year gross margin of 34.3% represents the decrease of 26 basis points from fiscal 2011.
SG&amp;A for Q4 was 25.43% of sales which leveraged 45 basis points.
The SG&amp;A leverage was driven by comparisons to last year's charges for impairment in discontinued projects as well as proprietary credit and risk insurance.
In the last year's fourth quarter we incurred $53 million in expenses for store closings asset impairments and discontinued projects.
This compares to $8 million for asset impairment and discontinued projects this year resulting in 39 basis points of expense leverage for the quarter.
We experienced 34 basis points of leverage associated with our proprietary credit program.
This leverage was driven by portfolio income the result of continued growth in the program.
Risk insurance leveraged 28 basis points due to lower-than-expected expenses for general liability and workers' compensation programs.
These items were slightly offset by deleverage in incentive compensation and advertising expenses as well as comparisons to last year's 14-week fiscal fourth quarter.
Incentive compensation deleveraged 33 basis points related to 2 store programs.
Our sales and earnings performance was better than expected resulting in improved attainment levels for the store management bonus and Service and Sales Employee Incentive programs.
Advertising deleveraged 13 basis points due to the timing of -- due to timing and the launch of lowe's.ca in Canada.
Also we experienced approximately 20 basis points of SG&amp;A deleverage in the quarter as a result of Q4 2011's extra week.
For the year SG&amp;A was 24.24% of sales and leveraged 84 basis points versus 2011.
Depreciation expense was $412 million for the quarter which was 3.73% of sales and deleveraged 44 basis points.
The majority of the deleverage was driven by comparisons to last week -- last year's 14-week fiscal fourth quarter and the week shift impact this year.
In addition we continue to invest in information technology which has a shorter depreciable life relative to our average asset base.
Earnings before interest and taxes for the quarter increased 6 basis points to 5.11% of sales.
For the year EBIT of 7.05% represents an increase of 52 basis points over 2011.
Interest expense at $109 billion for the quarter deleveraged 11 basis points as a percentage of sales.
The increase in interest was attributable to an almost $1.4 billion increase in total debt relative to last year.
For the quarter total expenses were 30.15% of sales and deleveraged 10 basis points.
Pretax earnings for the quarter were 4.12% of sales.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 36.7% versus 33.6% for Q4 last year.
For the year the effective tax rate was 37.6% compared to 36.7% for 2011.
Last year's lower tax rate was a result of federal and state tax credits.
Q4 net earnings of $288 million decreased 11% versus last year.
Earnings per share of $0.26 for the fourth quarter were flat to last year.
We estimate that last year's extra week and the lower tax rate aided Q4 2011 by approximately $0.05 and $0.01 per share respectively.
These items were offset somewhat by a net $0.02 per share impact associated with charges for asset impairments and discontinued projects.
Also we estimate that the week shift negatively impacted 2012's fourth quarter by approximately $0.02 per share.
For fiscal 2012 earnings per share were $1.69 up 18% versus 2011.
Now to a few items in the balance sheet starting with assets.
Cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of the quarter was $541 million.
Our ending inventory balance of $8.6 billion was up $245 million or 2.9% over last year.
The increase was driven primarily by the timing of receipt of spring orders.
Inventory turnover calculated by taking of trailing 4 quarters cost of sales divided by average inventory for the last 5 quarters was 3.74 an increase of 2 basis points over Q4 2011.
Return on assets determined using a trailing 4 quarters earnings divided by average assets for the last 5 quarters increased 31 basis points to 5.68%.
Moving on to liability section of the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with accounts payable of $4.7 billion which is up 7% to last year.
The increase in accounts payable relates to the timing of purchases.
At the end of the fourth quarter our lease adjusted debt to EBITDA was 2.17x.
Return on invested capital measuring using the trailing 4 quarters earnings plus tax adjusted interest divided by average debt and equity for the last 5 quarters increased 62 basis points for the quarter to 9.29%.
Now looking at the statement of cash flows.
For the year cash flow from operations was almost $3.8 billion.
Cash used in property acquired was $1.2 billion resulting in free cash flow of almost $2.6 billion.
For the quarter we repurchased 21.3 million shares at an average price of $35.19 for a total repurchase amount of $750 million.
For the year we repurchased almost 146 million shares at an average price of $29.86 for a total of $4.35 billion.
I'm pleased to announce that our board has approved a new $5 billion share repurchase authorization while simultaneously terminating the prior program.
The new authorization has no expiration date.
Looking ahead I'd like to address several of the items detailed in Lowe's business outlook.
In 2013 we expect a total sales increase of approximately 4% driven by a comp sales increase of 3.5% and the opening of approximately 10 stores.
For the fiscal year we are anticipating an EBIT increase of approximately 60 basis points.
Let me share 3 cost pressures in our 2013 plan which together cause approximately 30 basis points of SG&amp;A deleverage roughly 10 basis points each.
First as you heard from Greg we're investing additional payroll hours in the majority of our stores which causes payroll expense deleverage.
Second the volume of recent activity associated with Value Improvement is higher in 2013 relative to 2012 driving higher reset expense.
Lastly we experienced some favorability in 2012 related to our self-insurance liability for risk insurance.
We haven't planned to similar favorability in 2013.
As a result we expect that the majority of the improvement in EBIT will come from gross margin.
The effective tax rate is expected to be 38.1% which is roughly 0.5% higher than 2012 resulting in an earnings per share drag of approximately $0.01.
For the year we expect earnings per share of $2.05 which represents an increase of 21% over 2012.
We were forecasting cash flows from operations to be approximately $4.2 billion.
Our capital plan for 2013 is approximately $1.2 billion.
This results in estimated free cash flow of $3 billion for 2013 which represents an 18% increase over 2012.
Our guidance assumes approximately $4 billion in share repurchases for 2013 spread evenly across the 4 quarters.
Before taking your questions I wanted to cover one administrative item.
We recently reviewed the timing of our earnings releases which included benchmarking with a retail peer group the time between period end and release date as well as the day of the week.
As a result of this review we've made a decision to move our release date from Monday to Wednesday of the same week.
Therefore our first quarter results will be released on Wednesday May 22 and the rest of the year will follow suit.
Regina we're now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
On gross margin can you talk a little bit about -- it seems like you've got a pretty bullish expectation for gross margin progress in '13.
Curious in terms of what's driving that.
And then also gross margin was I think a bit of a source of upside in 3Q that didn't continue in 4Q.
Can you give us a little bit more color within that please? Sure Eric I'll start and let Greg chime in.
So we did experience good progress in Q4 in gross margin relative to Value Improvement as I said in my comments.
It helped by 30 basis points.
As we talked about the progress in the resets Greg mentioned just over 30% done through end of 2012 which means we've got the other 70-or-so percent to take place in 2013.
That's really gives us some confidence in gross margin expansion to 2013 is the benefit associated with the remaining resets from the Value Improvement program.
Yes.
And Eric I'll add to Bob's comments as he mentioned the -- we expect the impact of it to increase sequentially as the quarters roll out to 2013.
Also we're -- we are -- and we've seen results in the fourth quarter.
We're seeing a much better balance in our promotional activity.
So as we discussed in the first half of last year we had some weakness in our attachment rate particularly in the lawn and garden part of the season.
And we're addressing that this year and we have solid plans in place.
And then when you think about the impact of this -- what I call the center of the store and being able to get a really good traction with some of the categories that had to carry high margin such as rough plumbing rough electrical hardware we're increasing -- as I discussed we're increasing the -- both the devotion of hours to those categories in the first quarter.
And we're also increasing the investment of inventory to increased service levels of all those categories.
So expect that to be a positive impact.
On the fourth quarter performance as Bob mentioned we experienced a 14 basis point impact from the impact of val prop.
We also saw a high single-digit impact from the mix shift because you did see strong performance in categories like lumber and cabinets and countertops which are below corporate average.
So when you look at that and you recognize we were 5 basis points over last year I think that's the bulk of the impacts in the fourth quarter.
And if I could just follow up on the balance of the resets what have you learned in the first 30% that as you get to the next 70% that is evolving within the reset effort? I think Eric what we've learned is to be able to manage the inbound inventory much much more tighter on a per-store basis.
So weekly our general merchandise managers sit down with Rick Damron SVP of Operations and they literally make the call on every reset that is triggered to roll out per store looking at all the indicators of whether the on-hand inventory -- how many weeks of on-hand inventory we have what are the sales rate for this category per store is the signage -- what's the readiness of the signage package what's the readiness of the inventory backup flows what's the readiness of the display factors that we have going into this reset what's the readiness of the labor that's necessary to address this reset.
All indicators go we go green.
And it's been really really critical that we do that in order to maintain a reasonable cadence of clearance and especially -- and especially and I can't emphasize this enough especially to be able to execute on a strong customer experience.
So there's no holes because we waited too long to flow in the inventory or there's not a glut in the aisles of clearance inventory because we flushed in too much too soon.
So this cadence issue is really critical to us and that's what you see lesson we've learned from the resets we've done so far.
Our next question will come from the line of Alan Rifkin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on the line review and resets.
So for the group of stores and for the merchandise categories that have undergone both the reviews and the resets would you maybe be able to comment on the comp performance in that category relative to the 100 basis point overall comp that you saw from the implementation of the Value Improvement program? So Alan we -- I indicated that we had mid-single-digit comp performance in those categories that have been reset to date and that is what we're experiencing on the sales side.
And then the margin basis point impact was approximately 100 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a follow-up if I may for Robert.
Since obviously the macro backdrop is going to be so important in 2013 as the housing environment hopefully continues to improve when you're looking at your store portfolio and you're looking at some of the markets that enter the housing crisis first and have subsequently come out and rebounded earlier than other parts of the country what type of performance on a regional basis are you seeing for those specific markets that have come out of the crisis earlier than others? Well as we talked Alan certainly in Florida some of the Gulf Coast areas the coastal areas that were so hot and got hit before the downturn we're seeing good performance.
And on the west coast some of the areas out there that we're seeing obviously good performance.
If you look at areas that had really been overheated prior to the downturn some areas in Arizona Las Vegas in the Nevada market those areas you're starting to see them come back and then performing at the average.
And as we said I think it was in the comments good performance out of Florida and continued progress in the California market so.
Our next question will come from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> I was just curious if you could maybe walk through as you set the plan for '13 how you built up to the 3.5% comp and then maybe talk about where you see upside downside risk both macro as well as company specific.
Sure Dennis.
So a couple of perspectives on the 3.5% comp.
First ticket and traffic we think it's going to be relatively balanced.
Ticket and traffic growth we think the items that Greg described relating to investments in inventory and payroll will help with close rates which will help drive transactions.
Also as it relates to ticket growth as you mentioned housing is improving so that just stimulate more demand hopefully more discretionary spending as well as some continued benefit from lumber inflation should drive ticket.
The other perspective I'll give you is regarding our initiative.
So they helped Q4 comps by 100 basis points as we described.
More resets occurring in 2013 relative to 2012.
As Greg said another 160 stores get the product differentiation treatment.
We're seeing sequential progress and sales from those endcap programs.
So we think we've got strength and continued progress with internal initiatives plus whatever benefit we get from macro and housing.
LLC</strong> If you had to bucket those last -- those pieces between internal and macro of the 200 basis point improvement is there a way to think about the split? So if we think about the 3.5% comp I would say that a healthy 3-or-so percent that's coming from internal.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then a separate question.
Can you just update us on where the Australian joint venture investments sits today both from a cash outflow perspective as well as how you think the P&amp;L will be impacted as you move into '13 and beyond? Yes.
I'll just make a few overview comments Dennis and I'll let Bob get into some of the numbers.
The 25 stores opened in Australia we're pleased with the performance of those store openings.
Their year end is June.
I think we have about another 6 stores that'll open between now and the end of June.
So in less than 2 years 31 stores opened in the joint venture.
We feel really good about the way that the -- that joint venture is ramping the quality of the people that they're able to get in and hire in the stores the experience that they're delivering.
And then they're continuing to learn and make necessary adjustments along the way.
That is one thing I'm really impressed with is how quickly when -- is they're adjusting to the market and making the necessary changes.
So I feel good about it.
It's another couple of years before they'll get into a profitable stage but I'll let Bob take you through some of the detailed numbers on that so.
Sure.
We've got through the end of 2012 just over $0.5 billion invested in the joint venture.
2012 it was a modest earnings drag.
We expect as Robert said to migrate to a breakeven in 2015 2016.
So it'll be a modest earnings drag in 2013 was well.
Our next question will come from the line of Brian Nagel with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> First a question on the buybacks.
So the new $5 billion buyback you articulated in today's press release you indicated that -- so there's no -- I guess no end date but you expect to do over 2 years.
So how should we think about -- and I don't want to sound too nitpicky here.
But you're doing $5 billion over 2 years so that would suggest a slowdown from how -- the pace at which you've been buying back stock lately.
I mean how should we think about that? So in the outlook section of my comments Brian I said we expect about $4 billion for the year with roughly $1 billion per quarter which is in line with what we signaled at the analyst conference in December that the 2-year commentary in the press release really just suggests it's not all going to be done in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay okay okay.
That makes perfect sense then.
Sorry if I missed.
And then the second question again not sounding nitpicky here but when you're looking at the re-merchandising and the resets I mean it sounds to me given -- versus the commentary you made at the analyst day it seems like the progress has slowed down a bit.
I think we initially planned to have all the line reviews completed by the end of '12 and now you said 80%.
So first though the question is is that right? And then if so is there a reason behind that and how should we think about the progress the timing of the progress through 2013? Brian this is Greg Bridgeford.
And yes I would say that it has slowed down but purposefully.
It is a -- it's a conscious decision we made.
And here are the priorities -- and you could fault me for not forecasting accurately enough the probabilities that this might happen but here's our priorities.
First is the customer experience in the aisles.
So as I described the cadence will really determine what that feels like when a customer encounters a newly reset category or a category in reset in each of our stores.
And second is the employee labor cost and distraction.
If we don't execute a reset thoroughly and we call it one-touch resets and then believe me we weren't at first then we cause a lot of rework.
And the probability is that in the crunch of the spring season at Lowe's that rework won't get done.
So you'll have an incomplete reset and we don't want to cause that kind of additional potential costs from the labor standpoint or the distraction that it causes in the store.
And the third is the financial impact.
If we don't manage the cadence properly believe me we'll be generating much more clearance which will show up in obviously in the -- in margin degradation across the quarter.
So we're -- those are our 3 priorities and that's what drives the cadencing of these resets.
We're -- as we've gone -- as we made progress obviously we're being I think more realistic by saying we had a -- the majority of the remaining resets will obviously be done in the earlier part of 2013 but they will flow into the second half of 2013 no doubt.
But again it's -- we're making a management decisions as I mentioned when -- with Eric's questions weekly to make sure that we create that good experience for the customer.
We don't incur additional cost and that we manage the financial impact of the clearance items in the categories.
Our next question will come from the line of David Strasser with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> You guys talked about some of the strengths things that drove the benefits of the business in the fourth quarter.
We were just kind of going back and looking over the last couple of quarters and it seemed in the fourth quarter in each of the last -- going back to 2010 you saw an acceleration of sales on a 2-year basis on 1-year basis.
It was the strongest sales quarter also at the expense of generally the most gross margin degradation.
And it seemed to be a trend the last couple of years.
I'm just trying to get a sense seasonally if anything is changing in your business that's driving the better sales productivity potential at the expense of the margin side.
Dave this is Robert I'll start and let the others jump in.
I think what you highlighted was if you go back over the prior couple of years yes we saw a good performance but you saw the margin degradation because we -- actually we got into particularly last year very heavy promotional cadence with deep promotions that didn't pan out the way that we'd hope not enough add-on sales.
So it drove some top line but it gave away too much margin.
And that's what I said in my comments that when pressed about going up against that heavier promotional activity from the prior year and also if you remember it was really favorable weather at the end of the quarter last year unseasonably mild weather going up against both of those things being able to expand the margin including the other offsets that Bob took you through and develop a -- and deliver a nice comp on top of last year's strong comp is that's what gives us confidence.
So we accomplished those comps in a more balanced way more balanced across the quarter more balanced across the product categories and more balanced across the country than what we've seen in the past so.
Yes.
And David I'll add to Robert's remarks set a little color.
In fiscal '11 we drove a lot of transactions in Black Friday.
And this past fourth quarter we consciously said we want a more balanced approach.
And while we gave up some sales on Black Friday we drove a better customer experience.
We drove a much more balanced mix and we drove attachment rates in the fourth quarter which was our goal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on a side note too.
Just you mentioned -- I think you mentioned during -- at some point during the call I think Robert you did that with Pro business was better than the consumer biz.
I just want to make sure I heard that right.
And if so is there a distinction between big Pro versus like the smaller Pro.
So just trying to hear any color.
Yes.
I did mention that Dave and we have for quite a while seen our Pro business doing well and running ahead of the overall company average.
Rick Damron's in the room.
So I'll let him talk a little bit about what he's seeing as far as trends in the large versus smaller Pro business.
Yes David.
This is Rick.
As you know we relaunched our ProServices midyear really with a focus on continuing to build relationship across all of our relevant commercial categories and customers.
What we saw in Q4 was we saw solid growth in ticket and transaction.
We had positive increases in both.
And as it relates to all transaction buckets we saw increases across all transaction buckets 50 -- transactions that are $50 all the way up to transactions over $10 000 also a positive increases throughout the quarter.
So we feel good that we're accomplishing a balance between managing the small maintenance and repair customer the small local repair business as well as the larger commercial accounts across the country.
So we feel good about the balance approach we're seeing across our ProServices initiative.
Research Division</strong> I'll just follow-up with this question then I'll let somebody else.
But of all of those improvements was one of them a much bigger delta than any of the others so that's we're thinking into 2013 of the different category buckets? Yes David I would say what we're seeing is the actions we've taken over the last several quarters really beginning to pay off.
The commercial val prop is really helping us drive increased visits increased transactions on an ongoing basis by providing great loyalty to the customer.
And then as part of Northlake I think what we're also seeing is Northlake is providing us the ability to showcase commercial product differently than we've done in the past.
On our endcaps you'll see a value messaging to the commercial customer in the Pro business.
You'll see us bring contractor pack quantities which are discounts on certain quantities of products out to the front of the customer and display those better and message those better throughout the store.
So I think you're seeing a lot of that really come back.
The good thing that we're also seeing that get -- makes me feel good about 2013 is we're seeing that across the country.
It's not being driven by one geographical area or one set of stores whether it be rural or metro.
We're seeing a good balance across all of the store base.
Our next question will come from the line of Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First just Bob on the operating margin leverage sensitivity of the comps you laid out which got to this year.
The 3-year view that you laid out in December assumes a little bit more than that not a lot.
But just trying to understand as we look out past '13 what are the levers in '14 and '15 that basically will create better flow-through in terms of profitability per point at comp? I mean you talked about the -- some of the insurance stuff but just wondering if there's any other buckets there we should be thinking about.
Sure.
So generally we talk in terms of each point if comp drives 20 basis points of EBIT.
That largely plays out in 2013 absent some of those cost pressures.
The reset is temporary.
We'll be past the resets in 2013.
As we think beyond 2013 continue to make progress on the top line which will allow us to leverage all of our operating costs more so in '14 and '15 than we'll see in 2013.
We'll make continued progress against gross margin.
As Greg described the cadence of the line reviews is really is about quality versus quantity.
So we're trying to make sure the experience is right.
We're just going to help us drive both sales and margin productivity.
And then obviously as sales grow we'll get depreciation leverage as well.
So really it's across all 3 of those lines that help drive operating margin expansion beyond 2015.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just secondly on the Affordable Care Act I mean can you talk about how it's impacting your hiring decisions this year if at all? I mean I know you guys are hiring more people but is it part-time full-time decision? And then maybe any thoughts on what the impact could be as we get out into '14 and '15? Yes.
So at this point it really hasn't impacted our hiring decisions.
As we think about our business it's a complement of full-time employees a complement of part-time as we announced recently a complement of seasonal workforce as we enter our peak selling season which is spring.
So no real impact on thoughts of hiring.
We continue to evaluate the rules as they are written and the implications to our business.
But ultimately as we think about the individual mandate it's the perceived value of the state and federal exchanges that are going to drive some level of participation rates in our own program.
That's going to determine the cost.
So that is yet to be determined because those exchanges have yet to be set up.
So we're continuing to monitor both the development of the exchanges as well as additional rules that are written.
Our next question will come from the line of Laura Champine with Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> My question is really about what Mike Jones is focusing on.
You have few initiatives with the store resets accelerating in the middle of the line reviews.
I mean what are his primary focuses and what does he bring to the table on the merchandising front? Laura it's Greg Bridgeford.
Well Mike's been here all 2 weeks but he actually is stepped right in and is helping to define and to fine-tune the Value Improvement plan.
Mike brings with him years of experience in process management from companies that do it the best.
And what he's doing is stepping in and taking a hard look at all the processes associated with the Value Improvement program and putting more rigor and more discipline to those programs.
I expect he'd love to accelerate it if at all possible and it'll be done with all the priorities that I mentioned earlier.
It'll be a quality experience for our customer.
It will be a -- create leverage on the operating costs line and certainly the financial impact to clearance will be well managed.
But that's just -- that's his first focus area and Mike's making progress as we speak.
He brings a consumer products background from years of Husqvarna and General Electric and he has both appliances and lighting experience at GE and outdoor power experience at Husqvarna.
Mike brings with him a fascination with how value is created all the way from supplier to the customers' hands and a deep knowledge of that.
When I said that we look forward to him creating more value for both Lowe's and for our vendor partners I mean that.
And I think that having been through the line review process with Husqvarna I think Mike knows it very well from an interesting perspective.
And I think that as this critical part of our business moves ahead I think that he'll bring a very balanced and a very disciplined perspective to driving value for the entire supply chain.
Our next question will come from the line of Mike Baker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First just wanted a quick clarification.
When you talk about line review areas going through the -- flowing through the reset does that include getting through all the clearance product? In other words is the clean number 30% of your product that has gone through fully through this process including the clearance? Michael on the whole the 30% of product is still has -- there will be clearance inventory in the system as the products are reset.
When we say 30% we mean 30% with inventory stabilized.
In other words there is not a -- the percentage of product that's being sold at market is much less than -- is less than or in some cases much less than 50% of product being sold.
So we're looking to eliminate the friction or the -- or noise out of the system.
So we understand that these are -- this is sales of new inventory.
So we're looking for the tail of the clearance but I won't tell you there's not clearance inventory in some of these 30 reset categories.
Research Division</strong> Sure fair enough.
But if so is that 30% that's seeing that mid-single-digit lift? Yes.
And that's what -- and we're saying is it's on a balanced inventory level.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay understood.
A couple of other questions.
Just thinking about the cadence of comps through the year you said gross margin should get better through the year as you go through this line review.
Should we expect that within your 3.5% guidance the same type of cadence for the comps? I think Mike if you take a look at the 2-year comp of 1.4% in 2012 and a 3.5% it gives you roughly a 5% 2-year comp.
I think about that as you model out the 4 quarters.
Roughly speaking that'll be close.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
One last one.
Just -- I understand the SG&amp;A impact of adding more labor.
But I guess theoretically my view is if you're adding this labor you expect it to drive a sales benefit such that you leverage the incremental costs.
So I'm just trying to understand how that math works I guess.
Mike it's a good question.
It's a matter of timing.
So as you think about hiring people and training and getting them knowledgeable about the products we sell and the services we offer they're not productive day one.
So it's a timing issue relative to the SG&amp;A spend coming -- in advance of sales associated with those hires.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But in -- so in general though the idea is that that program would leverage itself? As Rick talked to you in our Analyst Conference so by 2015 we expect to continue to make improvements in sales per hour.
Our final question will come from the line of Kate McShane with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if I could go back to the subject of the increase in labor hours and wondered if you could just walk us through quickly how you came to the decision that this was needed especially in light of you being through the line reviews and the Value Improvement now for a while.
And do you expect -- since you're hiring new employees do you expect any lag time from seeing a benefit from these employees being on the floor? Kate this is Rick.
I'll take the first part of that and let anyone jump in on the second piece.
Two years ago we launched our weekend teams which was initiative that we saw as we began to review our transactions on the weekend versus our sales performance.
And we felt we had an opportunity from a labor perspective to add more labor over that weekend period and really impact our close rate.
What we saw was that performance really take hold.
We did see our initial hypothesis prove out.
And as we continue to look across the week what we began to see was from a traffic perspective a balance through the week and the weekend.
But what we began to notice was that the close rate on the weekends improved much greater than the close rates through the week.
So with that identification we looked and we saw that opportunity.
As we continue to look at the stores the next component of that was and the reason we're going to roughly 2/3 of our stores is where do we see that opportunity.
This was not a one-size-fits-all exercise.
We want to make sure that we invested that labor where we saw the opportunity based upon transactions and based on traffic to really be able to leverage that to the top line sales benefits.
So that's the reason you're seeing us be very selective in the stores in the markets we're putting those hours in where we have that opportunity.
As Bob said just a few minutes ago the labor we expect with any new employee for there to be an acclimation process as they learn Lowe's as they learn the products as we get them trained and onboarded.
And we expect as we go throughout the year for those hours to become much more productive and not be a degradation to our sales-per-hour targets that we've had outlaid in December.
All right.
Thanks for your continued interest in Lowe's.
We look forward to speaking with you again when we report our first quarter 2013 results on Wednesday May 22.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's call.
Thank you all for joining and you may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the Lowe's Companies' First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
(Operator Instructions).
Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management's expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
Those risks are described in the company's earnings release and in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Also during this call management will be using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other information about them posted on Lowe's Investor Relations website under Investor Documents.
Hosting today's conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Mr.
Rick Damron Chief Operating Officer; and Mr.
Bob Hull Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the program over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in Lowe's.
Let me start by expressing our sympathy for those impacted by the devastating storms in Oklahoma and throughout the Midwestern plains.
Our team members stand ready to assist the affected communities in the days and weeks ahead and as we’ve done in the past when natural disaster strikes Lowe’s stores around the country as well as lowes.com will become official donation sites for the American Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund.
Lowe’s is contributing $1 million to the relief efforts through the American Red Cross and other partner organizations.
Following my remarks Rick Damron will review our operational performance in the quarter and Bob Hull will review our financial results in detail.
But first one housekeeping note.
For the first time we’re providing slides on our investor relations website to supplement our call.
We encourage you to download the slides to facilitate your review of our slides and to use as a reference document following the call.
Now for some highlights of the first quarter.
Our plan assumed normal weather based on historical multiyear averages but as you know temperatures were cooler and precipitation greater than normal for much of the quarter resulting in a delayed spring selling season.
As a result comparable sales for the quarter were negative seven tenths of a percent driven by a decrease in comp transactions.
The month of March was particularly soft with a roughly 10% comp decline but April improved significantly resulting in positive comps of approximately 10%.
We have maintained that positive comp momentum through the first few weeks of May and I’d like to thank our employees for their hard work and continued dedication to serving customers.
For the first quarter seven of 12 product categories had positive comps but as you might expect seasonal categories such as lawn garden and seasonal living fell short of our expectations.
In fact comps for indoor products were positive approximately 3% while comps for outdoor products declined approximately 7%.
Our west division particularly the effort northwest in California delivered the strongest performance in the quarter but we also saw strength along the Gulf Coast.
While weather was certainly more cooperative in those regions of the country they were also benefitting from sustained demand created by the housing recovery.
We continue to benefit from superstorm sandy recovery efforts in the northeast and our Pro services business outperformed the company average.
Gross margin expanded 10 basis points in the first quarter.
While the value improvement program contributed to sales and gross margin the delayed spring impact impacted the full realization of the benefits we expected.
We continued to effectively control expenses in the quarter and deliver earnings per share of $0.49.
Delivering on our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders in the first quarter we repurchased $1 billion of stock and repaid $178 million in dividends.
The team continues to focus on improving our core business through cross-functional collaboration and consistent execution in store and across our selling channels.
One proof point is our level of preparedness for the spring selling season the result of a more coordinated planning effort.
The organization worked together to build store level inventory earlier in the season to create a compelling marketing campaign from messaging to signage to promotional events and to ensure that staffing levels were adequate and timely.
We rolled our spring plans by climatic zone in an effort to match resources to spring's expected arrival across the country.
In addition to a more coordinated planning effort we are diligently working on value improvement.
The goal is to enhance line designs and maintain better in-stock positions as well as simplify deal structures that allow us to offer competitive prices every day.
We are also leveraging compelling displays and enhanced merchandizing flexibility from our product differentiation program.
Finally in the first quarter we made an incremental investment in store labor during peak week day hours to increase the proportion of selling hours relative to tasking.
And began redress the week day close rate opportunity that we previously identified.
Now looking at the balance of the year from an economic perspective.
The housing market continues to show convincing signs of life.
However growth in other key indicators particularly employment slowed in the first quarter.
We expect growth to remain modest through mid-year as consumers adjust to higher taxes and the fiscal drag intensifies.
However we do expect that the lag effect of recent gains in housing will benefit home improvement demand as the year progresses.
The macroeconomic transition from recovery to sustainable expansion together with our initiatives in improving operational collaboration give us confidence in our business outlook for 2013.
Bob will share those details in a few minutes.
Thanks again for your interest and I will now turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Robert and good morning everyone.
During my time I will provide some additional products and geographic color surrounding our results and update you on our additional investment in week days selling hours and our value improvement program.
As Robert pointed out our indoor products accounting for approximately two-thirds of our first quarter business comped roughly 1000 basis points higher than our outdoor products.
We performed particularly well in large décor products well designed promotions along with the introduction of the LG line drove strong comps and margin dollar growth in kitchens and appliances.
Flooring benefitted from strength in hardwoods laminates and ceramic tile which finished a value improvement reset last year introducing trend relevant designs including larger sizes rectangular formats and wood plank looks.
We also showed solid positive comps in interior products within core categories such as farming mill work paint tools lumber bedding materials hardware and fashion electrical.
Many products benefitted from improved line designs and deeper inventory in key items after having completed their value improvement resets.
Strength in these products is also consistent with strong performance in our post services business which continued to out-comp our DIY business especially within higher tickets as we continued to apply a particular focus on building stronger relationships with our largest Pro customers both in-store and to our field based Pro services team.
While we had solid performance from our indoor products our outdoor products did not meet our expectations.
We were well prepared for the spring selling season but we expected the season to be normal in terms of timing precipitation and temperature.
We built store level inventories earlier in the season to be fully prepared whenever spring arrived particularly in products such as Mowers String Trimmers Grills and Fertilizers.
We also added seasonal labor to the stores and staged spring by putting events by three climatic zones just in advance of the expected arrival of spring in each of these zones.
At the beginning of the quarter we expected headwinds from the unusually warm and dry conditions experienced in last year’s first quarter.
However this year it was colder and wetter and has been expected throughout the northeast southeast Midwest and plain states which we estimate further impacted our comps by nearly 200 basis points.
In fact in areas where conditions were more favorable such as the west coast Texas gulf coast and Florida we recorded solid positive comps.
In the northeast the negative impact of weather was somewhat offset by sales associated with superstorm Sandy recovery efforts which aided first quarter comps by approximately 45 basis points down from 70 basis points in the fourth quarter but consistent with our expectations.
Approximately 27 stores have seen a prolonged surge in demand as they meet the recovery needs of the most severely impacted communities.
Three categories comprised mostly of outdoor products drove our negative comps for the quarter.
Lawn and garden was double digit negative and seasonal living which includes grills patio and seasonal cooling was high single digit negative.
Lower lawn mower sales drove low single digit negative comps in the outdoor power equipment category.
These categories recorded strong comps in April and also thus far in May.
In the second quarter we expect to recover most of the outdoor sale we missed in the first quarter due to unfavorable weather conditions.
As you think about the types of sales we will recover it is helpful to divide outdoor products into two groups.
The first includes products that can only be used within a narrow window of time when weather is favorable pre- emergent fertilizers and spring flowers for example.
The second group includes products that customers will want to use throughout the spring and well into the summer months.
Examples include grills patio furniture.
Customers will be willing to buy these products as long as enough time remains during the summer to enjoy them.
Most of our outdoor products fall into the second category.
With the entire summer ahead of us and the improvement in weather we are seeing in recent weeks we expect to recoup a significant amount of outdoor sales in the second quarter.
As Greg discussed last quarter there was a gap between the percentage of customers who know what they want to purchase when they visit our stores and our close rate.
We are addressing this opportunity to improve close rate by investing in more customer placement hours during peak weekday times and through our value improvement program.
We have added an average of 150 hours per week to the standing model for nearly two thirds of our stores entirely apart from our typical seasonal staffing increase.
Previously weekday labor hours were heavily skewed towards tasking and we have identified an opportunity to better serve customers and close more sales during those hours by increasing the assistance of employees.
We completed hiring of these part time employees in the first quarter.
As these employees progress up the learning curve we expect these hours to contribute to sales growth.
We will continue to monitor the performance of this program and make adjustments as necessary.
making them more relevant to each of the markets we serve easier for our customers to shop and more efficient for our associates to maintain.
This includes reducing duplication of features and functions within price points and reinvesting inventory to increase in stock levels especially in key high velocity items customers expect us to have on hand including job lot quantities needed to complete large projects.
We are also working to lower our unit cost by reducing funds set aside by vendors for promotional and marketing support and by negotiating lower cost comps.
We continue to make progress.
At the end of the first quarter we had completed resets representing over half of our business.
Examples of resets completed in the first quarter include seasonal products by planters patio furniture and grills and year around products like kitchen cabinets and garage door openers.
We expect to finish the initial round of resets in 2013.
As Greg mentioned last quarter the financial benefit of value improvement is greatest once we have reached stabilization.
That is when we are past clearance and selling only new assortments.
We estimate that roughly 30% of our product lines were at this stage in the first quarter.
We continue to expect average mid-single digit comps and roughly 100 basis points of margin improvement rate for product lines that have reached stabilization.
From an operational perspective these resets are now flowing across our stores with minimal disruption.
Greg and I are committed to continuous learning and collaboration and expect the same from our organization.
As we [modeled] for the execution of value improvement resets during the first half of last year we identified opportunities to minimize disruptions and managing the reset process at a more granular level.
We now [find] the clearance of old inventory the arrival of new inventory the arrival of displays and signage on a store by store basis versus at a regional level.
And before we proceed with any reset a team including members from merchandizing store operations and logistics made to ensure all elements of the reset are ready.
If not we delay the reset until they are.
These steps have helped us to eliminate out of stocks and minimize disruption in our stores.
As you can see our commitment to continuous learning and collaboration supports our focus on increasing close rates.
We expect to get better every day at meeting customer's needs through improved services and product offerings which is why we have added customer facing hours during peak weekdays time.
And we continue to enhance our product assortments to our value improvement program.
We look forward to sharing our progress with you in the coming quarters.
Thank you for your interest in Lowe's and I will now turn it over to Bob.
Sales for the first quarter were $13.1 billion which represents a decrease of 0.5% from last year's first quarter.
Comp sales were negative were negative seven-tenths of 1%.
Comp transactions were negative 3.7% while comp average ticket was up 3.1% to last year.
As you heard from Robert exterior categories were negatively impacted by weather early in the quarter begin to rebound as spring finally reached most of the country.
In planning for the quarter we expected a 300 basis point headwind associated with last year's great spring weather.
However we estimate that the cooler and wetter spring this year calls comps to be almost 200 basis points below our expectation.
This cooler wetter weather impacted our seasonal business which was a driver of the negative comp transactions in the quarter.
Gross margin for the first quarter was 34.8% of sales a 10 basis point increase over the last year's first quarter.
The gross margin increase was driven by value improvement which helped gross margin by approximately 25 basis points.
Our estimate of the improvement next to clearance impact of the reset against the benefit of the stabilized line.
For the quarter the percentage of resets completed increased from 30% to 50% which was consistent with our plan while the percentage of restabilization increased from 20% to 30%.
The progress in completing the resets was greater than product lines reaching stabilization as a result of the delayed spring.
The financial benefit of value improvement is greatest once we have reached stabilization.
We are comfortable that with recent trends the percentage of stabilized resets will improve and we will achieve the anticipated margin expansion for the year.
This improvement was offset by our proprietary credit value proposition which negatively impacted gross margin by approximately 20 basis points or about 10 basis points higher than we expected.
This was driven by higher sales penetration of our proprietary credit program which reached 24.7% of sales a 190 basis point increase over Q1 2012.
SG&amp;A for Q1 was 24.62% of sales which leveraged 3 basis points.
While the leverage was modest there are a number of expense lines worth discussing.
Casualty insurance leveraged 31 basis points as a result of favorable actuarial adjustment.
On our fourth quarter call I shared three cost pressures in our 2013 plan one of which was casualty insurance.
With this favorable adjustment we now expect this item to be essentially flat from last year versus our prior expectation of deleveraging 10 basis points for the year.
incentive compensation leveraged 19 basis points as sales and earnings came in below expectations compared with higher attainment levels in last year’s first quarter.
Last year we recorded $17 million in expense associated with the voluntary separation program resulting in 13 basis points of leverage this year.
as Rick noted in addition to the normal spring hire we added incremental hours during peak weekday periods.
As a result of the additional payroll and delayed spring store payroll deleveraged 30 basis points.
We also experienced deleverage in store repair and reset expenses of nine and five basis points respectively.
The store repair was driven by planned repair and maintenance activity while the reset deleverage was caused by the higher volume of resets relative to last year.
Depreciation for the quarter was $352 million which was 2.69% of sales and leveraged 12 basis points as compared with last year’s first quarter as a result of assets becoming fully depreciated.
Earnings before interest and taxes increased 25 basis points to 7.49% of sales.
Interest expense at $1113 million for the quarter deleveraged 8 basis points from last year as a percentage of sales as last year’s bond deal occurred in mid April versus a full quarter’s interest expense this year.
For the quarter total expenses were 28.17% of sales and leveraged 7 basis points.
Pretax earnings for the quarter were 6.63% of sales.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 37.8% versus 38% for Q1 last year.
Earnings per share of $0.49 for the quarter represents a 14% increase over last year’s $0.43.
Now to a few items in the balance sheet starting with assets.
Cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of the quarter was $1.1 billion.
Our first quarter inventory balance of $10.3 billion increased $488 million or 5% over Q1 last year.
the increase is primarily attributable to delayed spring selling season.
Inventory turnover calculated by taking the trailing four quarters cost of sales divided by average inventory for the last five quarters was 3.57 a decrease of 11 basis points from Q1 2012.
Return on assets determined using the trailing four quarters earnings divided by average assets for the last five quarters increased 23 basis points to 5.68%.
Moving on to the liability section of the balance sheet accounts payable of $7 billion represents a slight increase over Q1 last year.
The increase in accounts payable is lower than the 5% increase in inventory which relates to the timing of purchases in the quarter versus last year.
At the end of the quarter lease adjusted debt to EBITDA was 2.17 times.
Return on invested capital measured using the trailing four quarters earnings plus tax adjusted interest divided by average debt and equity for the last five quarters increased 56 basis points for the quarter to 9.53%.
Now looking at the statement of cash flows cash flow from operations was $2 billion which was down 19% from Q1 2012 due to working capital.
Capital expenditures were $196 million a $141 million reduction from last year.
as a result first quarter free cash flow of $1.8 billion was down 16% versus last year.
In February we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement to repurchase $1 billion of the company’s common stock.
At this point we expect to receive about 25.9 million shares but the offered number of shares will be determined upon completion of the program in the second quarter.
Also in the first quarter the company repurchased approximately 300 000 shares of its common stock for $10 million through the open market.
For the quarter we repurchased a little more than $1 billion.
We have approximately $4 billion remaining on our share repurchase authorization.
Looking ahead I'd like to share our outlook for the year.
in 2013 we expect total sales increase of approximately 4% driven by a comp sales increase of 3.5% and the opening of approximately 10 stores.
For this fiscal year we’re anticipating an EBIT increase of approximately 60 basis points.
We expect the majority of the improvement in EBIT will come from gross margin.
Majority meaning more than half but not 100% or more of the 60 basis point improvement.
The effective tax rate is expected to be 38.1%.
For the year we expect earnings per share of $2.05 which represents an increase of 21% over 2012.
We are forecasting cash flows from operations to be approximately $4 billion.
The reduction relative to our prior outlook is due to higher forecasted inventory at year-end.
The higher inventory levels relate to investments and target service levels.
Our capital plan for 2013 is approximately $1.2 billion.
This results in estimated free cash flow of $2.8 billion for 2013.
Our guidance assumes approximately $3.8 billion in share repurchases for 2013 spread roughly evenly across the four quarters.
For the year we expect lease adjusted debt to EBITDA will be at or below 2.25 times.
Regina we are now ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Greg Melich with ISI Group.
I wanted to get a little more detail on the comp trends.
They got better and May was similar to the April numbers.
Does that mean it was actually at the April number or better or worse or you just think the trend is such that you are going to get that acceleration for the quarter.
Greg this is Bob.
The May trends to date are approximately the same as what we have experienced in April.
Got it.
And then I want to follow-up a little bit more on the margin side of the equation.
Clearly it looks like there was a little bit of delay in getting the value improvement in but also some hit from mix and some of the weather issues.
Could you help us understand that seasonal product that missed what does that do to the mix? Is lawn and garden higher margin because you own the inventory or help us out a little bit on that side? Greg I will start this is Greg Bridgeford.
With the (inaudible) that means value improvement impact we completed the reset of over 80 categories in Q1 and as Bob detailed that reset process brought us to over 50% of the categories.
But with the weather impacts and a slow sales environment many of those categories that are seasonally oriented did not reach stabilization.
And therefore moved through their clearance inventory so we could appreciate the margin gains from the new sets.
And so with that delay in weather we saw the impact of the clearance obviously hit our margin line without the benefit of having the lines reset and the margin accretion from the new cost structures and the new category set.
So we certainly have see that turnaround as the weather turns around.
So that gives us some confidence so we can -- we are going to achieve our 100 basis point improvement after stabilization in categories in the mid-single digit comps.
And the follow-on to that Greg.
So we think about the mix of products mix had a slight negative impact on margin for the quarter largely driven by lumbar and the inflation we are seeing in that category resulted in being a greater proportion of our business relative to Q1 last year.
The seasonal products themselves have a margin rate consistent with company average so it's not really a mix impact but as you think about the slowdown in March created the delay in clearing through -- the clearance activity therefore delaying the sale of products at full margin after the reset.
So we estimate a combination of value improvement about 10 basis points lower than our expectation and the value [prop] was another 10 basis points resulting in gross margin coming about 20 basis points lower than our expectation for the quarter.
Great.
That’s super helpful.
And Rick just given the initiatives to put those extra labor hours during the week did you at least get the close rate up as expected even if you didn’t have the traffic given the weather.
Greg I will answer that in two ways.
One is as we put the incremental stack in labor into the weekday teams we approached that in the same way we did the spring Black Friday events by going by climatic zone.
So in the southern markets for those hours we implement first we’re able to get the teams on board get them through training required to be as efficient and effective as we’d like to see.
We saw better results there than we did as we moved further north later in the quarter with finalizing the implementation of those hours in early April in the northern markets.
So as we progress up the climatic zones we did see improvement there.
If you look at overall close rates it was basically flat to last year due to a lot of the mix issues we saw with seasonal inventory typically driving the higher close rate the spring selling months then our interior category.
So while I’m looking at that I’m very comfortable with the results that we saw even though the close rate remained flat for the quarter because of the timing of those reset or the timing of the seasonal business and the close rates that historically come with those.
Let’s put a little color Greg on Rick’s remarks.
With seasonal business we do find that to be more of a destination shopping for items like bedding plants fertilizers grass seeds soil amendments.
And so that is you do see stronger close rates.
So as the weather didn’t improve in some of the northern regions as Rick described we didn’t see the close rate improvement but where we did see the weather improve we’re seeing improvement.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Two questions if I could.
The first revolves around the resets and that’s just getting clarity on when you expect those lines to cross i.e.
the progress starting to outpace the disruption.
And I guess related to that on this topic you talked about a couple of categories that have been through resets like paint and Millwork and you talked about a 500 basis point delta versus the company average.
I think those comps are more in line with the change this quarter.
So I’m not sure if there is anything in particular that weighed on those.
Now that we have some categories done just want to make sure that we can align the expectation with reality and make user that those sync up.
Matt this is Greg.
As Bob described our expectations post reset is 100 basis points improvement impact by category.
So what we have seen and this is really important is as we’ve seen weather improve and we see some of these seasonal categories that were reset and completed the reset in Q1 but had it stabilized.
We’re beginning to see the impact of that.
We’re seeing the basis point improvement that we expected to see and as Bob said our expectation was 10 points higher from the impact of the stabilized categories from a margin impact.
So that’s our expectation moving forward.
That’s a sequential increase over where we have been seeing and that’s the kind of progress that we’re expecting to make as we move through to see more categories stabilize at roughly 30% right now and we’re seeing -- we expect to have all categories stabilize by the end of the year.
So it is sort of -- sorry go ahead.
I would add one thing to Greg’s comment.
As it relates to the sales aspect of categories particularly in paint I think you look at paint with the same phenomenon as you did seasonal with the mix of interior and exterior paints making up the driver of the average performance.
You see the same relationship in paint as you saw the rest of the categories with the interior paint categories far outpacing the performance of the exterior categories due to the seasonable weather.
So it’s like third quarter or fourth quarter when you actually start to see this being a firmer gross margin driver across the business? Yeah.
So we do expect gross margin to improve throughout the course of the year.
As we talked about we’re at roughly 30% stabilization.
As stabilization improves we’ll see improved margins throughout the course of the year.
Yeah Matt we expect to see the impact of clearance inventory taper down as we move through the third quarter into the fourth quarter.
And just a quick follow up for Bob we’ve seen a little bit of volatility on the depreciation line and I know it’s not a focus on the operating front but the Q4 to Q1 move was pretty dramatic.
What kind of number would you expect to see for the year that’s deprecation on the P&amp;L? Is this a good base to build off of or should that number be still bouncing around a little bit? The movement you see in depreciation in largely just timing of the assets brought on board so depreciation from those if you think about the shorter duration IT equipment adding some offset really more than offset by assets becoming fully depreciated.
If you think back to a number of years ago when we were opening up 150 stores and CapEx was north of $4 billion we have got some of those assets becoming fully depreciated which causes some of that quarter-to-quarter volatility.
I think the run rate that we saw in Q1 are a little bit higher than that because of the assets being added this year is probably a good number to use.
So if last year the average through the year was something in the 3.75-3.80 per quarter run rate we are 3.50 this quarter.
It sounds like somewhere in-between those two numbers on a quarterly basis.
I think that’s right.
Your next question will come from the line of Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
I guess my question is regarding some of the merchandize resets.
What you have told us so far is that when merchandize is being fully reset and you are experiencing a mid-single digit comp gain once all the old merchandize is cleared out etcetera.
Can you give us an idea of what the range on these results are? I am assuming it's not just a steady 5% kind of level.
And then related to that has the extra labor you have been adding to the store has been concentrated towards those areas where you have the resets? Scott I will start this is Greg.
It is quite a range and I will tell you in some of the categories the hard liners categories that we reset early on we have seen strong response to new values.
Especially as we market assorted.
And I guess the categories within some of our paint departments plumbing departments that are seeing a double-digit comp increases.
But included in the value improvement line reviews are categories like plywood and dimensional lumber we are not seeing double-digit comp increases because in realty those categories are open market and you have literally if we did see those kind of increases I would be very suspicious.
So it is a mix it is a range.
And where we have had the categories stabilized it does take a while depending on the traffic hitting that category for the customer to encounter those values to encounter the new ranges and the market assorting impacts.
But we are seeing the impact.
Yes Scott this is Rick.
I will discuss the extra flavor for a moment.
The thing to keep in mind as we talk about incremental investment to the weekday teams was that was in addition to our normal seasonal build of temporary labor to handle the normal seasonal ramp up.
So the focus of the weekday teams is on the core categories which is where the predominant number of the resets have taken place thus far to the program.
So the seasonal temporary labor are still skewed to the outdoor lawn and garden departments the seasonal departments.
The weekday teams are focused on the interior core categories which line up very well with the activity around the value improvement initiative.
So I guess my question I guess my follow-up question on that is on the labor front are you seeing any kind of direct correlation to sales improvement when you add the extra labor.
Scott I think when you look at that we talk a lot about the close rate into the first quarter performance.
The thing to keep in mind with the incremental labor and I think we will be able to provide you probably better clarity into the performance into Q2 is the impact of weather across the country when we talk about the incremental labor investments where we are.
The thing to keep in mind like I said earlier is we rolled out that incremental labor not at one time in the beginning of the quarter but we staggered that reset to time better with when we thought the extra weather would be cooperative in adding that labor throughout the country.
So we did it in three stages.
In the southern markets the central markets and in the northern markets.
So we turn it that way.
The thing to keep in mind is the fact that in the southern markets where we first rolled the labor investment out we have been pleased with the results that we have seen as the employees have come up to speed on training and through our orientation processes and got acclimated to the stores.
And we are seeing the second tier perform better than the third tier.
So a lot of it has to do with the timing of that we brought the incremental labor hours on as well as timing through the normal seasonal build process.
So we will be able to give you more clarity into the exact results hopefully at the end of Q2 but like I said earlier we are happy and pleased with what we have seen as we progress through the timing of the incremental hour's investments.
Just to add on to that.
As Rick said the weekday teams primarily are focused on the interior of the store on core categories throughout the interior store.
We did layer it on by climatic zone as traffic is starting to build.
If you go back to my comments I did reference that in our Indoor product categories we saw a 3% positive comp.
On exterior categories we had a 7% negative comp.
Part of that is obviously due to weather.
But I think obviously part of it is probably attributable to where we did have the weekday teams in place as Rick said they weren’t there for the entire quarter.
And to layer on Rick’s comment once as customers are in there and they are starting to see I think a greater level of service in the aisle.
I think certainly that will help with our close rate and will pay dividend for us in future quarters as those customers make return trips to the store and also we get those employees up the learning curve as we had to do with any employees.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin McGranahan with Bernstein.
Just in terms of 1Q couple of markets that maybe didn’t have a weather extremes.
Can you talk a little bit about what the performance look like in those markets? Colin this is Robert.
I think we talked about – and I have Rick and others chime in.
We talked about one a couple of things recovering markets.
We also talked a little bit about the West Coast and whether you are talking about California whether you are talking about Florida whether you are talking about Arizona whether you are talking about Nevada.
We saw a nice strong positive comps in the majority of the stores in those markets out there.
Robert just to maybe I understand those in the market that took the biggest hit during the housing and are fully in recovery mode.
But is there any market you can point to that’s f a more normal market that would reflect what the business looks like not in hard hit markets and not in weather impacted markets? And I'm scratching my head if that’s like Tennessee or something? Yeah.
Well if you look at across our Southern tier where we had better performance better weather we certainly saw much better performance positive comps across the Deep South Southern tier when weather broke and we had more opportunity to capitalize on seasonal business across those markets.
Carl this is Rick.
I'd just add when you look at a lot of the markets Tennessee as an example was impacted tremendously by the weather swings.
I would say the Gulf Coast is probably more reflective of more normalized markets that performed very well as far as the Southern markets go in comparison to the rest of the country.
That gives us confidence in what we've seen from a value improvement initiatives as well as our investments back into store labor and inventory.
As Robert said California performed extremely well being our highest comping state for the quarter.
And then we saw good performance across the other markets particularly the West Coast and Florida as those markets continued to rebound.
Then in May -- and I'm probably thinking this because obviously there was a lot of noise in the quarter trying to understand what you're doing and how weather impacted it.
But in May how are the indoor categories performing or the non-weather impacted markets? Colin this is Greg.
We've not seen a fall in performance of the indoor categories.
They're doing well.
They actually benefit from the foot traffic that's brought in from the seasonal business.
And as Rick was describing earlier you actually see an impact.
The penetration rates aren't as great obviously as you move from winter months towards summer months.
But in the interior paint categories you see all the interior paint categories sundry and accessories benefit from the foot traffic that's driven in by the exterior categories that are now taking off as we've seen weather turnaround from south to north.
Final quick question just on the credit proposition 20 bps the margin impact versus expected 10 higher penetration.
Are you getting a commensurate lift in sales and benefit to the comp and are the returns what you expect at this point? Yeah we still see improvement in top line.
So as we think about the 190 basis points roughly a fourth of that would be incremental and the balance of that would be (inaudible) shifts.
So we are seeing some incrementality.
In addition as we think about switching from other forms of tender yes we do have a 5% off on the proprietary credit.
That’s in lieu of promotional financing that they might have taken us up on otherwise it’s a reduction and expenses for the program.
It's also a reduction of bank card fees that we might have incurred.
So we are pleased with the continued progress of the credit program.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Binder with Jefferies.
You talked a lot about the labor add back and the cadence to that.
I was curious if you can give us a little bit of color on what kind of training you are putting behind the added labor if there is a bigger concentration on in the aisle training or online training.
And how you are using that additional labor? I know it's two full time equivalents but is it being split up across different parts of the store so that you get four different bodies in there at different times.
Any color on that? Sure Dan.
This is Rick.
As it relates to training I will address that first.
We have very specific training for these individuals as they come on board in addition to our normal orientation programs that we put them through.
Our training is both in aisle and online through our Lowe's learning courses that we do with the employees.
The thing to keep in mind with these employees is the training is very concentrated as we talk about.
These employees are focused on the interior categories.
So it could be very structural training such as paint.
How to mix paint how to engage our customers in the paint aisles or in specific areas throughout the store that we had them assigned to.
As it relates to how they work across the store we take and have been focused under very two very particular timeframes that the stores are allowed to use these incremental hours.
And those timeframes were based upon when we saw the highest concentration of customer traffic throughout the day.
So they are scheduled to either in mid-morning timeframes or in early to late afternoon timeframes to hit those peak customer traffic times throughout the day.
And we scheduled them in ways to make sure that we are taking advantage of our sales and planning processes understanding where the business is being dictated where the business is coming through so that we are able to schedule them in accordance to where we think that we will be drawing traffic into the store and make sure that they are prepared and ready to engage the customers there.
So it is a very holistic approach and the hours are not they are not being just simulated across the store it is very focused very structured which enables us to train them more in depth and allows us to target them into areas where we know the customer traffic will be more concentrated throughout the day and the week.
And as a follow-up what is the next areas for the resets in the coming season? Well the next areas Dan in terms of categories? Yeah.
There is -- we still have from a reset standpoint half of our categories to go.
So there is about 100 and half left.
So it's quite varied.
I mean I think it will be less obviously seasonal.
As we move into summer they will be more hard line focused and probably more focused in some of the areas of plumbing fashion electrical some in millwork that I am aware of.
But it is spread across the store.
And as you enter fall you will see some more seasonal resets come back and obviously as you move towards the Christmas season you will see trim [tree].
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lasser with UBS.
When you look back at the first quarter why did you think that either you were more impacted by the weather than the broader home improvement category and your largest competitor? Or alternatively maybe you didn’t benefit as much from the strength in the indoor category as much in the market.
My understanding is I think that both of us were certainly impacted by weather and I think that was -- what they also said on their call yesterday.
So I think it’s not about being more or less impacted by weather on seasonal categories.
I think part of it is one for example we talked about the strength in the West Coast particularly areas like California where we don’t have as many stores.
So to the extent that you have those markets that had favorable weather yes we benefited from the favorable weather but as a percentage of our total base obviously we don’t have as many stores there.
And then the other thing I think I would point to is we don’t have a strong -- as strong of affiliation as a percentage of our business with that professional customer.
I think that would be something to look towards.
I think if you look at in the Hurricane Sandy market we don't have as many stores and that immediately affected area as obviously they would.
And then the last thing Michael I would point to would be just what we've talked about on the call today that we still have a lot of disruption going on as we go through the reset process the transition of the lines those type of things and selling through existing inventory.
Even though we’re getting good sell-through on the inventory and we're pleased with the margins we're getting compared with what we normally sell our nonproductive inventory through that you're still selling units at less than what would otherwise be a full retail value obviously.
You're selling unit and that's having an impact on your top line comp performance as well.
So I would point to that as maybe some of the differences not saying that weather impacted one of us more than the others.
No that’s helpful.
I guess I was being a little too cute in how I ask my question.
And Robert if the penetration of the Pro business is a little lower at Lowe's how do you think you could -- will you be able to fully participate as that customer segment becomes fully reengaged in the business and what can you do to increase your penetration there and share? Thanks Well we've got a number of initiatives and I can have Rick speak to those as well.
But once again as you look at where recovery is taking place in many cases it is in some of those.
The early recovery and rebuilding from let's say a new construction standpoint is in some of those markets Florida California those places Arizona where we were so heavily hit during the economic downturn.
And once again those are areas where we have stores.
So we've got some things we're working on to try and obviously growing our share of business in those markets.
But we've got some overall initiatives that we've got working on too in those markets across all markets to be able to continue to improve our relationship with the commercial customer anything from the things like we've talked about last year or so ago adding value prop to that commercial -- to what we offer to that commercial customer to a lot of other things.
And Michael I'll chime in and Rick has some notes too but it's an important opportunity for us.
As you have heard and this is consistent in Q1 our sales to the pro customer the commercial customer outpaced our sales to the consumer from a growth rate standpoint.
And we need to take advantage of what the market will provide us.
So from two critical points as we restructure our lines through value improvement and you go into categories like hardware or rough electrical rough plumbing as you address that opportunity in tools.
And we've purposefully made sure that we whether it was in particular brands and especially quantities and depth of inventory we've reset those lines with that in mind.
With the investment that Rick helped drive in inventory at the onset of the year we've been able to provide much greater on-hand depth in some of those key categories as we set these categories through value improvement and that's crucial because with that customer time is so important.
So we're seeing the benefit of that depth of inventory.
We're seeing the benefit of lines that are structured against that opportunity.
and Rick you may have a few more comments.
Yeah Mike this is Rick.
I just wanted to highlight a couple of things and Robert touched on a few of those that I think will add tremendous value to the professional customers.
We continue to work toward building stronger relationships with that group.
I think a couple of things when you talk about one is what we’re doing to showcase value to this customer differently than we have in the past.
And as Robert mentioned we introduced val prop value proposition to the customer last year giving this customer the 5% off for all purchases on proprietary credit through our vehicles there.
And we’ve seen tremendous adoption of that from a consistency point of view in what we're offering from a value perspective to those customers every day in every market.
Second to that is also we talked about last year changes we made to our inventory investments as part of the value improvement initiative particularly in increasing targeted service levels across all items in the stores which really help us build greater depth in key product categories that are relevant for our pros that shop us every single day to make sure that we have that inventory available in stock across the store particularly focused on improving our depth of what we call job lot items.
Those items that pros need in multiple qualities every single day to be able to complete the jobs.
And we’ve invested a greater depth of inventory into those specific items in a very targeted way to make sure that we’re able to meet the demands across the store in those areas where we know they have particular quantity needs on a day-to-day basis to invest in that area.
The third component of this is what we’ve talked a lot about from product differentiation and our ability to begin to show this product differently to these customers than we ever had in the past.
One of the key items there that I’ll highlight is our contractor pack program which offers these customers discounts for quantity purchases on those items whether it’d be electrical boxes switches whether it be drywall repair whatever those items that we've identified.
We're able to present those on the end caps in a collective way to the consumer in that area of the store differently than we've in the past by freeing up those incremental end caps to be able to show these customers different value whether it be in contractor pack quantities or whether it be in that national brands or proprietary brands that are relevant for them.
So those things I think are adding tremendous value and are leading to helping us to have the pro-customer segment out comp our DIY segment for the last several quarters since we've launched those.
The fourth component of that we introduced last year being our reorganization of our outside sales teams to focus on building those relationships with their largest customers where we know that we have a tremendous opportunity to gain share with them and to take a greater share of their spend and we're working to continue to refine that.
That organization was implemented at the end of Q4 taking place in Q1.
So we feel very comfortable and very good about what we're seeing that organization being able to do long-term.
So when you look at this I think it's a holistic approach in what we're doing from showing value to how we show product to building an organization that helps us strengthen the relationships across that category.
Our final question will come from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
I was wondering if you guys could maybe talk a little bit longer-term once you get past some of the investment you're making in the store payroll this year and the resets and repairs and things that maybe fade away as the recovery takes hold.
How would you like us to think about fixed cost leverage or SG&amp;A leverage with a rising comp environment in '14 and '15? Dennis this is Bob.
I think the framework that we've provided in the past which is basically 20 basis points of EBIT improvement for each 1 point of comp still holds true.
Obviously there might be some fluctuations quarter-to-quarter but on balance kind of '13 and beyond that’s what we would expect.
And is that inclusive of changes in D&amp;A and gross margin as well? It is.
Are you assuming that’s flat within that? So what would the SG&amp;A component of that look like? So the majority of the movement would be in SG&amp;A as you think about fixed cost leverage.
Similarly we get leverage on depreciation as sales improve and then once we get past the value improvement process our expectations for gross margin improvement are modest.
Around 10 or so basis points per year.
So the majority of that’s going to come from SG&amp;A first depreciation second and then gross margin third.
Okay.
Great.
And then separately if we were to look at the seven categories that you flagged as being above average I was wondering if you could put maybe some absolute numbers behind some of those.
Were there any categories that were up let’s say 4% or better in the quarter? This is Robert Dennis.
Yes we had categories were up that much.
We’re not going to go and give you the detail category by category.
But yes we saw that a lot of the swing in categories.
And those would be led by where you’ve had more stabilized resets? Well we saw the interior categories as we said overall were up 3%.
But yes I mean those that we would have had some -- we’ve either invested the depth of inventory or we’ve had some of the reset activities surely would have contributed to that performance.
Thanks and as always thanks for your continued interest in Lowe's.
We look forward to speaking with you again when we report our second quarter 2013 results on Wednesday August 21.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you all for joining and you may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the Lowe's Companies' second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator instructions.].
Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management's expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
Those risks are described in the company's earnings release and in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Also during this call management will be using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other information about them as well as reference slides pertaining to second quarter results posted on Lowe's Investor Relations website under Investor Documents.
Hosting today's conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock chairman president and chief executive officer; Mr.
Rick Damron chief operating officer; and Mr.
Bob Hull chief financial officer.
I will now turn the program over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in Lowe’s.
Once again this quarter we have provided slides on our investor relations website to supplement our call.
While we do not plan on speaking directly to the slides we encourage you to download them to facilitate your review of our results and to use as a reference document following the call.
After my remarks Rick Damron will review our operational performance and Bob Hull will review our financial results in detail.
But first I’ll provide some highlights of the quarter as well as our view on the economic landscape for the second half of the year.
Comparable sales for the quarter were positive 9.6% driven by a healthy balance of ticket and transaction growth.
As expected we recovered most of the outdoor sales we missed in the first quarter from unfavorable weather conditions and we also capitalized as planned on consumers’ natural mindset shift during the second quarter from lawn maintenance early on to outdoor enjoyment in the mid to latter part of the quarter.
Our Time to Shine campaign resonated with customers looking forward to spending time outdoors and celebrating summer with family and friends.
While outdoor categories were strong we also saw strength in indoor categories.
In fact all 12 product categories had comps at or above 5%.
Likewise all regions had positive comps in the quarter and our pro services business continued to perform well.
We’re focused on improving our core business through cross-functional collaboration and consistent execution in store and across other selling channels.
I’d like to thank our employees for their hard work and continued dedication to serving customers.
Home improvement demand was strong during the quarter and the team’s improving execution allowed us to capitalize on it.
Gross margin expanded 42 basis points in the second quarter as we made further progress with our value improvement initiative.
We also continued to effectively control expenses and deliver earnings per share of $0.88 for the quarter a 37.5% increase to last year’s second quarter.
Delivering on our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders in the second quarter we repurchased $1 billion of stock and paid $174 million in dividends.
I’m also pleased that we made further progress with our previously announced bid for Orchard Supply Hardware.
The government antitrust review has concluded and yesterday the bankruptcy court approved our bid for the 72 stores that we chose to include in the transaction.
We expect the deal to close at the end of August and to be funded with operating cash flow.
Strategically the transaction will provide Lowe’s with an attractive opportunity to increase our footprint in California where we’re currently understored through a neighborhood format that is complementary to our strength in big box retail.
Orchard’s hardware and backyard stores have a loyal customer base and are situated in high density prime locations.
We see significant potential for Orchard as a standalone business within Lowe’s portfolio and we look forward to the opportunity to participate more fully in California’s economic recovery.
Now looking at the landscape in the second half of the year the stronger than expected pace of home improvement industry growth so far this year was fed by modestly stronger gains in housing turnover and job growth than originally forecast further offsetting the negative effects of higher taxes.
Industry outlook for the second half hinges on the impact of steep increases in mortgage rates experienced over the last few months.
The rate increases will likely take some sting out of the recent housing market rebound but shouldn’t derail it as long as job gains persist homes continue to appreciate and rates rise more gradually going forward.
The macroeconomic transition from recovery to sustainable expansion together with our initiatives and improving operational collaboration give us confidence in our business outlook for 2013.
Bob will show those details in a few minutes.
Before I turn it over to Rick I’d like to share why I’m enthusiastic about Lowe’s long term prospects.
Our business is sound and our brand is strong.
We’re the second largest player in the home improvement market which provides tremendous buying power and economies of scale.
Additionally we’re generating solid cash flows even as the economy emerges from the worst housing downturn in generations.
We will use that cash flow first to make strategic investments in our core business and other opportunities that draw on our ability to serve developing home improvement markets second to pay dividends and third to repurchase shares.
Thanks again for your interest in Lowe’s.
Rick? Thanks Robert and good morning everyone.
As Robert shared with you our performance for the quarter was balanced across categories where comps range from mid-single digits to double digits and across regions where our comps also range from mid-single digits to double digits.
Additionally ticket and transaction growth contributed evenly to our overall performance.
We also saw balance throughout the quarter with comps above 8% every month.
Finally we were pleased that this top line sales performance was accompanied by continued improvement in gross margin rates.
We achieved this balanced growth by executing well within the second quarter’s strengthening home improvement market and ensuring we were ready to sell outdoor products as customers responded to the warmer spring and summer weather.
In fact our outdoor product comps increased approximately 13% in the second quarter compared to a decrease of 7% for the first quarter resulting in an outdoor comp of 3.5% positive.
We achieved very strong second quarter growth in products needed to improve and maintain the yard tools and outdoor power equipment and lawn and garden were among our best-performing product categories in the quarter.
However strong growth wasn’t limited to outdoor categories.
Kitchens and appliances also outperformed in the quarter driven by robust growth in appliance sales as the LG line gained further traction after its first quarter rollout.
We are excited about the innovation that LG adds to an already strong lineup of national brands and the most extensive in stock offering of appliances in the home center channel.
In fact this month JD Power and Associates ranked Lowe’s highest in appliance retail customer satisfaction for a fourth consecutive year.
We were also pleased by strength in the core of the store where categories such as hardware paint and fashion electrical not only achieved mid single digit comps but did so with solid growth and gross margin rates.
This balance of sales and gross margin rate improvement within these categories reflects the progress we’re making in our value improvement initiatives.
At the end of the second quarter we had completed resets representing approximately 70% of our business and we expect to substantially complete the initial round of resets in 2013.
Examples of resets completed in the second quarter include core products like plumbing tools and wall plates and core products such as blinds and shades ceiling fan accessories and hardwood flooring.
A recent example of how value improvement was used to more effectively assort a product grouping was in power tools sandpaper where the team created a clear and practical progression and enhanced inventory productivity.
They eliminated price point and design duplications and established exclusives within the mass retail channel with the Gator Grip and Shopsmith brands.
Gator Grip offers opening price points and the Shopsmith line offers premium [film backed] ceramic grain sandpapers which are more aggressive and durable and sell primary to the pro customer.
As a result the financial benefit of value improvement is greatest once we have reached stabilization.
That is when we are past the clearance and selling only new product assortments.
We estimate that roughly 50% of our business was at this stage in the second quarter.
We continue to expect average mid single digit comps and roughly 100 basis points of improvement in gross margin rate for product lines that have reached stabilization.
As I mentioned earlier our performance in the second quarter was not only balanced across categories but across regions as well with all regions achieving mid single digit comps or above.
Those regions that have struggled from cooler and wetter weather in the first quarter including most of the East Coast and Midwest recouped most of those sales in the second quarter.
In our north division we achieved our strongest performance in the upper Midwest which suffered from droughts last year and experienced a delayed spring this year.
Additionally we estimate that the stores most affected by Superstorm Sandy contributed approximately 30 basis points to our total comps.
Housing recovery markets on the West Coast and Florida and healthy markets along the Texas Gulf Coast continue to show high single to double digit comp improvement.
We expect to see continued strength in these markets and further improvement along the south to east coast and in the Midwest where the recovery is now taking root.
Looking at payroll as expected strong second quarter sales growth generated solid payroll leverage across all regions of the country as we leveraged the fixed component of store labor hours.
As a reminder we added approximately 150 hours per week to the staffing model for nearly two-thirds of our stores.
These additional hours are dedicated to the interior sales floor.
We continue to monitor performance and make adjustments as necessary.
As Bob will share with you our expectation for year-end inventory is approximately $200 million higher than we had forecasted last quarter.
Part of this increase is due to air conditioners and ceiling fans.
The cooler and wetter summer to date has greatly reduced our sales of these items.
We expect to sell them until the end of the summer but we will carry over the remainder to sell next year.
The greater part of this inventory increase reflects our commitment to further lean into increasing demand as we bolster job lot quantities to benefit pros increase overall in store service levels and present compelling end cap displays.
We expect that these incremental inventory investments will be completed this year and that we will be positioned to achieve greater inventory productivity in 2014.
Before I hand it over to Bob I am pleased to share that for the first half of this year approximately 80% of our U.S.
stores have qualified for a service and sales employee incentive or SSEI payment.
As a reminder SSEI is a profit sharing program for hourly associates.
This quarter’s payment will be the highest we have made since the start of this program.
Thank you for your interest in Lowe’s and I will now turn it over to Bob.
Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
Sales for the second quarter were $15.7 billion which was an increase of 10.3% driven by positive comp sales and new stores.
In Q2 total customer transactions increased 5.3% and total average ticket increased 4.7% to $65.60.
Comp sales were 9.6% for the quarter.
Looking at monthly trends comps were 9.5% in May 8.5% in June and 11.3% in July.
For the quarter comp transactions increased 5% and comp average ticket increased 4.4%.
With regard to external factors we estimate that the recovery of lost Q1 sales from a delayed spring aided second quarter comps by approximately 120 basis points.
Also lumber deflation and sales related to Superstorm Sandy recovery efforts added roughly 60 and 30 basis points to comps respectively.
Our internal efforts including value improvement product differentiation lowes.com proprietary credit value proposition outside selling positions and the weekday labor hours investment drove approximately 250 basis points of the Q2 comp.
The balance of the comp growth 5% or so we believe was driven by improving execution and strengthening industry demands.
Year to date sales of $28.8 billion were up 5.1% versus the first half of 2012 driven by a 4.6% increase in comp sales and new stores.
Gross margin for the second quarter was 34.35% of sales which increased 42 basis points over Q2 last year.
The biggest driver of the increase was value improvement which helped gross margin by approximately 55 basis points our estimate of the improvement nets the clearance impact of the reset against the benefit of the stabilized line.
For the quarter the percentage of resets completed increased from 50% to 70% while the percentage of resets stabilized increased from 30% to 50% which was consistent with our plan.
Also more effective promotional activity relative to Q2 of last year aided gross margin by an estimated 20 basis points.
This improvement was offset somewhat by the following items.
First our proprietary credit value proposition negatively impacted gross margin by approximately 15 basis points.
This is driven by higher penetration of our proprietary credit program which reached 24.7% of sales a 90 basis point increase over Q2 2012.
Also the mix of products sold negatively impacted gross margin by 14 basis points.
Lastly lumber inflation negatively impacted gross margin by rough 10 basis points.
Year to date gross margin of 34.56% of sales is an increase of 26 basis points over the first half of 2012.
SG&amp;A for Q2 was 21.73% of sales which leveraged 53 basis points.
During the quarter store payroll leveraged 30 basis points.
Payroll dollars were up approximately 7% versus Q2 of last year which includes the additional weekday hours investment that Rick noted.
While payroll grew in the quarter it was at a lower rate than sales resulting in expense leverage.
Similarly insurance both casualty and employee advertising utilities rent profit taxes and other cost leveraged as a result of the 10.3% sales increase.
Also expenses incurred last year for the voluntary separation program resulted in roughly 10 basis points of leverage this year.
These items were offset somewhat by incentive compensation expense which deleveraged 31 basis points as a result of higher expected attainment levels relative to last year.
Year to date SG&amp;A was 23.04% of sales which leveraged 36 basis points to the first half of 2012.
Depreciation for the quarter was $367 million which was 2.33% of sales and leverage 26 basis points compared with last year’s second quarter as a result of the sales growth.
In Q2 earnings before interest and taxes or EBIT increased 121 basis points to 10.29% of sales.
For the first half of 2013 EBIT was 9.02% of sales which was 82 basis points higher than the same period last year.
For the quarter interest expense was $110 million and deleveraged 2 basis points to last year as a percentage of sales.
In Q2 2012 we settled various tax matters that resulted in lowering interest accruals by $22 billion causing an interest expense deleverage in this year’s second quarter.
Total expenses for Q2 were 24.76% of sales and leveraged 77 basis points.
Year to date total expenses were 26.31% of sales and leveraged 52 basis points to last year.
Pre-tax earnings for the quarter were 9.6% of sales.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 37.5% which is down slightly from Q2 last year.
Net earnings were $941 million for the quarter an increase of 26% over Q2 2012.
Earnings per share of $0.88 for the second quarter were up 37.5% to last year.
The $0.88 per share compares with our plan of $0.83 with a nickel beat driven primary from higher planned sales.
For the first six months of 2013 earnings per share of $1.36 represented a 27% increase over the first half of 2012.
Now to a few items on the balance sheet starting with assets.
Cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of the quarter was $1.1 billion.
Our second quarter inventory balance of $9.1 billion increased $407 million or 4.7% versus Q2 last year.
The increase was driven by higher inventory levels to support demand inflation in lumber and building materials as well as the air conditioner and ceiling fan carryover that Rick noted.
Inventory turnover calculated by taking the trailing four quarters cost of sales divided by average inventory for the last five quarters was 3.73x or essentially flat with last year.
Return on assets [measured] by using the trailing four quarters earnings divided by average assets of the last five quarters increased by 114 basis points to 6.38%.
Moving on to the liability section of the balance sheet accounts payable of $5.7 billion represented an 11% increase over Q2 of last year caused by the timing of purchases this year relative to last year.
At the end of the second quarter lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 2.05x.
Return on invested capital measured using a trailing four quarters earnings plus tax adjusted interest divided by average debt and equity for the last five quarters increased 201 basis points for the quarter to 10.62%.
Now looking at the statement of cash flows cash flow from operations was $3.4 billion an increase of $560 million over last year largely due to the timing of purchases that contributed to the higher accounts payable balance as well as growth in net earnings.
Capital expenditures were $376 million a 40% decrease from last year.
As a result year to date free cash flow of $3 billion was 37% higher than the first half of 2012.
For the quarter we repurchased 24.4 million shares or a little bit more than $1 billion.
Also in the quarter we received approximately 2.7 billion shares as part of the final settlement associated with the accelerated share repurchase program executed in Q1.
We have approximately $3 billion remaining on our share repurchase authorization.
Before getting into the details of the Lowe’s business outlook I’d like to note that the income statement impact from the Orchard’s Supply acquisition is not expected to be material and except for [unintelligible] related expenses is not included in these figures.
Also I wanted to note that our outlook for the second half of the year is unchanged from our prior outlook.
Our 2013 outlook combines the above planned sales and earnings performance in Q2 with our previous assumptions for the second half of 2013.
Now to our outlook for 2013.
We expect total sales to increase by approximately 5% driven by comp sales of approximately 4.5%.
We expect continued momentum for our internal efforts tampered by moderating home improvement industry demand.
We expect to open approximately 10 stores for the year.
For the fiscal year we are anticipating an EBIT increase of approximately 65 basis points.
The effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 37.9%.
As a result of these inputs we’re expecting earnings per share of approximately $2.10 which represents an increase of 24% over 2012.
For the year we are forecasting cash flow from operations to be approximately $3.9 billion which is lower than our prior forecast due to the higher inventory levels that Rick described offset somewhat by higher earnings.
Our 2013 forecast for fixed assets required is approximately $1 billion.
The decline from our prior expectations relates to spend rationalization lower expected costs and project timing primarily related to information technology.
This results in an estimated free cash flow of $2.9 billion for 2013.
We expect to close the Orchard transaction in the quarter.
Our guidance assumes approximately $3.6 billion in share repurchases for 2013 which is lower than our prior expectation as a result of the $205 million Orchard purchase price.
For the year we expect lease-adjusted debt to EBITDAR will be at or below the 2.25x.
We continue to execute against the long term strategy that we outlined during our analyst investor conference last December.
Our initiatives are gaining traction and we are pleased with our results for the first half of 2013.
In addition housing is turning.
So for the first time in a while both internal and external forces are moving in the right direction.
We will not be holding an investor conference in 2013 but look forward to updating you on our strategy in mid-2014.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
[Operator instructions.] Our first question will come from the line of David Strasser with Janney Capital Markets.
Bob I just wanted to follow up on a comment you made as you were talking about the guidance about the moderating home improvement demand.
July seemed like the strongest category.
It seems accelerating throughout the quarter.
As we think about Q2 I talked about some of the improving execution.
So we have implemented some procedures specifically sales and operations planning that allows us to work on behalf of the customer in a more collaborative and coordinated fashion.
So that’s aiding this year’s performance.
But if you think back to Q2 last year we had a lot of moving pieces as it relates to the value a voluntary separation program the change in commission for some of the sales folks in the store floor.
We had some reset challenges the execution of resets related to value improvement.
We had inconsistent promotion activity in Q2 of last year.
So some of the benefit in Q2 was specific to recovery of some disruption in Q2 last year.
Also as you think about the external factors I just described there was the recovery of the lost sales from Q1 lumber inflation and Hurricane Sandy 200 or so basis points largely doesn’t continue into the second half of the year.
And then lastly I’ll talk about interest rates.
We’re seeing positive momentum in housing but the wildcard is interest rates and the impact that has on housing affordability.
So we’re kind of watchful of that potential impact.
I guess along those lines one follow up question.
Yesterday Best Buy and Home Depot talked about really strong appliances.
You’re talking about really strong appliances out there.
Is there something in the industry that’s happening that’s driving such dramatic demand in that space? Each person has incremental brands and so on but it just does seem like the category has expanded fairly dramatically recently.
And just trying to understand a little bit more about what may have driven that.
I think part of it is underlying economic fundamentals we talked about which we attributed part of the increase in the quarter to.
As home prices started to move up I think it does have homeowners feeling gradually better about willingness to spend particularly as you get to big ticket durables.
And I think some of appliances - some of those things are probably some of the purchases that consumers have otherwise delayed during the downturn because they could get better clarity with regard to where the value of their home was moving.
So I think we’re seeing part of that come into play.
It’s no different than what you’re seeing in the auto industry and other places where you’re seeing consumers have a willingness to move towards some of those big ticket durables as they’re feeling gradually better about things.
I agree with Robert that from a household economic trend standpoint I think we are seeing the impact of what’s been some delayed spending now coming into our favor.
And what’s worked for us and what drove our share increases in Q2 was innovation.
The launch of LG continues to provide a lot of momentum for the category.
Also new innovative products from Samsung innovative products from Bosch some new rollouts of GE and Whirlpool.
That’s been driving our sales in appliances.
And I think we’ve gotten into the cadence.
You know Bob mentioned it earlier.
I think we’ve gotten into the cadence of the proper balance of traffic driving promotions and ticket building promotions too so that’s been a big hit in terms of driving sales and driving margins simultaneously.
Your next question will come from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
My first question comes on the penetration of the pro business.
Typically I think it’s been around 20% for you.
Can you give us some flavor and comment of what you’re seeing in the pro and maybe how that penetration is moving? We continue to see good growth in the pro for the quarter.
Our pro business outperformed our sales totals or comp totals.
You look at it overall it’s roughly we say approximately 25% of our total volume at this point in time.
If you think back to several initiatives that we launched mid year last year we’re gaining traction with those.
When you look at the focus that we’ve got on the MROs the maintenance repair customers when they come into the stores as well as the reorganization that we went through and talked about.
Our account executive pro services in the field getting them focused on building strong relationships with our core customers.
And really pulling that together as a cross-functional program across the organization to make sure that we’re really doing the things that benefit the pro.
I talked a little bit about it in our opening comments the job lot inventory just making sure we have the right depth of inventory being able to present those effectively to the pro customer has really benefited.
You look at [inaudible] and our product differentiation aspects and the freeing up of end cap space has allowed us to present our contractor pack value offerings to the pro customer which is a way to give them discounts on multiunit purchases.
And then the everyday value proposition on our proprietary credit has also really benefited that category.
So we’ve been extremely pleased with the programs the teams have built the progress we’re making and the traction we’re making as the pro continues to rebound in the marketplace.
And my follow up really has to do with the air conditioner issue.
Did I hear you correctly that you’re going to pack away about $200 million worth of air conditioners? Just my question is what risk of obsolescence do you have and have you done this before? And what risk is there in this particular strategy? The $200 million relates to many factors not just ACs.
So it does relate to as Rick described as we think about going through the lines we’re adding greater depth of inventory to the products that are the eight items the highest velocity items.
So greater in stock levels there.
So that’s the bulk of it.
We do have some carryover from both air conditioners and ceiling fans.
As we think about seasonal product we evaluate the quality of that product whether it makes sense to mark it down at that point in time or carry over.
ACs is a category where there’s not much change year over year.
So as we think about carrying over air conditioners there’s really no impact to the 2014 line there’s no risk to the line there’s no risk of damaging the product as we carry it over through the season.
So yes we have done that before and feel comfortable with that decision.
Your next question will come from the line of Laura Champine with Canaccord.
I understand the air conditioner and ceiling fan issue but given those strong sales trends in Q2 how are your in-stock positions as we move into Q3? I think we feel really good about our in-stock positions.
A lot of the cross-functional work that we’ve talked about certainly our strength with our extensive logistics and distribution network that we have out there has allowed us to stay very comfortable with in-stock positions that we have.
And we said the seasonal categories the air conditioning there’s still time to sell through part of that and it’s an easy product to carry over to next year.
So we feel really good about in-stock.
As you think about inventory in general I think it’s important to go back and realize some of the changes that we’ve made to our strategy this year that are helping us impact our in-stock levels in the stores today and what we’re continuing to do.
We talked about previously as we looked at opportunities for inventory moving into 2013 that we saw some opportunities to improve our in-stock positions.
Actions that we took were greater depth of the job lot inventory meaning that we have greater depth of inventory available for our pros and our DIY customers when they come into the stores to complete those projects.
We also increased our in-store targeted service level across many items particularly those that have gone through the value improvement line initiatives to drive greater in stock levels of that inventory when those categories come out of that line review.
So that has helped us meet those demands as well.
And then as it relates to Q2 related to seasonal categories remember we talked about in Q1 the way that we built our inventories more aggressively to hit those high seasonal peaks and demands for the consumer allowed us to capture that upside from that initial spike when the consumer was ready.
And that allowed us to proactively flow that inventory for the remainder of the season.
So I think collectively all of those initiatives have played out very well and have us in a good position going into the second half of the year.
The only thing I’d add to Rick’s comments would be that when you look at the top four categories that had above average performance for the quarter three of the four are what we’d call flow through and sell out categories.
And one of the keys to the quarter was really a tremendous performance on the part of our vendors our logistics teams and our store operations teams from being able to flow through that much inventory and putting it in the hands of the customers whether it’s in outdoor power equipment live goods lawn and garden hardlines or appliances.
That was one of the keys to the quarter.
Your next question will come from the line of Brian Nagel with Oppenheimer.
You called out as part of your outlook some concern with respect to the potential for rates to climb higher.
The question I have is interest rates already ticked higher by a bit here.
Have you seen any indication yet in your business that this is having an effect? And given the history you have with Lowe’s if interest rates continue to climb higher how could that impact Lowe’s business in the coming quarters or years? Certainly if you look at any of the numbers out there with regard to refinancing or new home sales housing turnover those types of things certainly you’re seeing the impact of interest rates starting to show up in some of those numbers.
As I said earlier I think however the biggest positive impact that we had seen so far on the business to date has been the fact that overall from a macro environment home prices starting to move up and the strong housing turnover job gains that we’ve seen to date we think that’s contributed to what we’ve seen in the business.
Yeah interest rates since May or something are up about 110 basis points or so.
So it is starting to have an impact on refinancings those type of things.
As long as it kind of stays in this area moves up a little more gradually we think it has some impact but we’re not overly concerned about it.
If you were to start seeing interest rates that were to move north of the 6% interest rate for a 30-year mortgage we think that that would probably start to have some impacts that we would start feeling in the business.
And then maybe just a quick follow up.
Any update on the remerchandising and resets and what lift you’re seeing in your comps in the areas of the store you touched? As we discussed we’re making a lot of progress with value improvement.
We did perform a normal amount of resets for the second quarter and provided the bulk of when you look at the lift that Bob detailed the 55 basis points we attributed to value improvement we’ve continued to see progress being made in what I call the interior categories which is the center of the store.
When we execute resets and refresh the lines that’s provided a strong basis for the business.
Because you saw very balanced performance across the categories for Lowe’s.
And then going into the season obviously we perform line reviews pre-season for categories such as lawn and garden.
And we actually do line reviews about twice a year on the appliance categories as new models and innovations roll out.
So continue to be a major foundational factor in our performance and it’s at the point now as Rick mentioned with 50% of lines reaching a form of stabilization where it is becoming part of our business.
And it’s a solid foundation for our business.
Your next question will come from the line of Michael Lasser with UBS.
On the 150 labor hours that you added at the store how much do you think that you have opportunity to much a little further on that increase service levels even more? And what sort of benefit might you be able to see from that? Right now we’re comfortable with the program that we have in place and executing against that 150 hours.
I think when you go back and you look at the analysis that we did when we put those numbers those hours back in we felt confident that that would get us back to where we were from a service level and an hours level to meet the sales needed for the quarter.
So we feel confident in that program.
We’re still making adjustments to that program as we move into Q3 and looking at how we allocate the hours what departments we allocate the hours into and how we mix them across the floor.
But we’re still comfortable that the 150 hours is the appropriate number and we don’t see at this point in time a need to increase those hours.
And my follow up question is on your outlook.
I’m curious about the level of conservatism that you’ve baked into your outlook.
Can you kind of frame how you see the upside downside and potentially what type of momentum have you carried into the current quarter from that very strong July? If you remember back at the end of the first quarter when we fell short of what our internal plan was we didn’t really change our guidance because we anticipated that with the impact we saw from a delayed spring we would make up the majority of that in the second quarter.
And the second quarter we actually covered most of those sales and then had actually performance above what our internal plan we’re seeing.
So our thought process has been we take the amount we exceeded our internal plan for the second quarter roll that into the annual guidance combined with what our plan was basically for the second half of the year.
So we’ve got good momentum going into the third quarter so that gives us additional confidence.
There are some additional headwinds out there as Bob outlined in his comments including some unknowns out there with things like interest rates that we just went through and the impact that that could have potentially on the industry.
So we feel good about the outlook for the second half of the year but that’s kind of how we got to building the revision to our guidance for the year.
Two comments.
One related to your guidance question.
You asked about where we were so far.
If you think about our 4.5 comp outlook for the year relative to the 4.6 that implies a comp of 4-4.5% in the second half of the year.
I would tell you that August to date we are running somewhere between that 4-4.5% and the 11.3% we ran in July.
So nice big range for you.
The other point I’ll make really ties together your question on payroll and prior questions on inventory.
So as we think about the second quarter we saw a ramp in industry demand that we haven’t seen for quite some time.
In fact we recorded our highest quarterly comp in almost 10 years.
So we were focused on capitalizing on the opportunity.
As you heard from Rick we’ll focus on the inventory productivity that we outlined in 2015.
We’ll get there but we didn’t want to lose sight of the opportunity that was in front of us in this quarter.
That’s a pretty wide range that you could drive a sledgehammer through that.
No chance you could narrow that for us? You can do it with your model as you see fit.
Your next question will come from the line of Greg Melich with ISI Group.
I wanted to talk a little bit about guidance but rather the top line on the flow through.
It’s specifically in the margin guidance you basically only increased the guide by 5 basis points even though second quarter was up 100 basis points.
So I’m just wondering why that was.
Is there something going on with the flow through from the resets maybe a little different than you thought? Or on the SG&amp;A side? As comps decelerate help us understand the difference based on whether that deceleration is traffic or ticket in terms of the leverage.
So following up on Robert’s response to Michael’s question our outlook for 2013 is a function of taking our year to date performance plus our prior expectations for the second half of the year.
So yeah it looks like on a 1% sales increase the EBITDA only goes up 5 basis points.
We didn’t change our second half outlook.
We do expect a 4-4.5 comp in the second half to be balanced across ticket and traffic.
We do have some expense pressures that we talked about previously the 10 basis points from additional labor hours.
Reset expense is actually 20 basis points.
We talked about 10 basis points previously it’s now 20 basis points for the year instead of comp.
We’ve modeled the year at performance at target.
Given where we are today sales and earnings are forecasted above our plan which means that we’re accruing a bonus above target which is another 10 or so basis points.
So we’ve got some expense pressures that are probably resulting in the flow through rate looking less than what we’ve guided in the past which is the 20 basis points for each point of comp.
That’s what’s taking place in the second half of the year.
And then if I could on the D&amp;A that’s been pretty choppy and bouncing around.
Should we use this quarter as the right run rate? Or how should we think about that? I think you can use a number of about $1.5 billion for the year.
As an average and then just accept that it’s bouncing around a little bit more? It should be more steady going forward.
As we think about the nature of timing of asset adds so [my key was just 3-year lives].
That caused some of the lumpiness that we saw in 2012.
I think we’ll see more consistent depreciation going forward.
I have one follow up question on guidance and then one question on demand.
My question on guidance just sort of phrasing it another way it looks like the implied operating margin guidance for the second half of the year would be up about 10 basis points.
And that’s actually a little less than you did in the first quarter with a 1% comp decline.
Obviously you levered much more in the second quarter on a much bigger comp decline despite throwing a lot of money into expenses probably a little more than you had initially intended.
Are the expense pressures those discrete pressures you discussed sufficient to limit operating leverage to 10 basis points? Or should you comp [four] or so? Or could that be a conservative number in the event that the top line gets to that level? I’m not sure where the 10 basis points comes from.
We’re at 82 for the first half of this year expect 65 for the second half.
I guess I was looking on a non-GAAP basis.
That might be the difference.
We report on GAAP and guide to GAAP.
Understood.
We can move on from there.
I guess the second question relates to the kind of visibility of big ticket sales.
If you could talk about some of the projects that have sort of longer life cycles from the consumer’s initial visit to completing the project what is traffic in some of those categories looking like today? And what can you glean about the sustainability of demand from your interactions with consumers in your stores? What we’ve seen is probably one of the most balanced performances that I’ve ever seen from category performance.
We saw strong demand for the bigger ticket project categories in a way that we haven’t seen in recent time periods.
Whether it’s kitchen cabinets whether it was appliance sales or whether it was fashion plumbing sales we’re seeing strength in those categories and interest and traffic in those categories that we haven’t seen in previous quarters.
So as we look at the focus of a lot of our [unintelligible] work over the last nine months we’re coming into somewhat of a sweet spot as we get into the second half of the year because 60% of fall project sales comes from flooring paint bath and appliances.
And we put a lot of effort in those categories to make sure that we’re able to capture that customer demand.
As I mentioned before we’re really working hard to execute and maintain a good cadence of promotional activity that is margin accretive that’s foot traffic driving builds basket and is margin accretive in the process.
And that’s part of this plan as we head into the second half of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Christopher Horvers with JPMorgan.
Looking at the benefits from the value improvement program the gross margin was a big higher than the math would suggest based on the percentage of resets completed and through clearance and so forth.
So that was a little better there.
Was that a catch up from the first quarter? And then thinking about the math both on the comp and the gross margin into the back half should that normalize back into what the basic math of the percentage completed and through reset and times a percentage the mid single digit and 100-basis point comp lift? Your first question was on the 55-basis point improvement relative to the 50% of lines stabilized? Yes.
It’s really somewhat a function of the lines that are reviewed and the timing of the reviews within the quarter.
As Rick outlined in his comments we still believe and still are seeing the average mid single digit comp increase 100 basis points of gross margin stabilize.
So nothing to indicate that we would see anything different in the second half.
And then thinking about the acceleration during the quarter and looking at two-year [stacks] accelerating during the quarter clearly the seasonal business peaks in the Memorial Day to July 4 timeframe so can you just talk about the texture of demand within July? How much was the moisture levels maybe carryover impact in July versus what you would consider more core and sustained demand as you look to the back half? We did see probably more moisture on a nationwide basis in July more moisture in the ground than we’ve seen in years maybe a decade.
And it did drive the opportunity for sustained live goods sales bagged goods sales and in particular outdoor power equipment sales as the normal dryness that hits in July and August didn’t retard the growth of grass.
So we had a very strong performance in the outdoor power equipment categories in particular.
And we were able to execute against that because we were ready.
You mentioned two-year comps in Q2.
Given that we had some shift in demand between Q1 and Q2 I’d encourage you to take a look at the two-year stack for the first half which is 5.6% and then you take a look at the outlook for the second half basically assumes that our two-year comp would be in the 5.5-6% range.
So we do have tougher comparisons in the second half of the year but on a two-year comparable basis we’re expecting relatively the same performance second half versus first half.
And one final one.
As you think about the disruption last year around the promotional variation throughout the quarter and things that were successful and not successful was that more of a June issue last year impacting comps? Or was that more of a July issue? A little bit of both.
I think specifically as we talk about last year we had probably too light of promotions for Memorial Day didn’t get the attachment rate.
We responded by larger big ticket promotions.
We didn’t get the unit movement.
So I think it’s a little bit of impact all across the quarter.
I’d agree with Bob.
It was a May to mid-June issue and then a separate issue in the latter half of the second quarter.
The cadence and the integration and the collaboration that we’re executing through our sales and ops planning process today is helping to drive the balanced performance that you saw in Q2.
We intend to improve on this process and it’s really enabling us to meet expectations in terms of our performance.
Our final question will come from the line of Eric Bosshard from Cleveland Research.
Wondering if you could give a little bit more color.
I understand you talked about adding some inventory to the business but curious of how the progress the focus that you’ve had on margin it seems like you’re having obviously very good success with sales but how you’re thinking about sales and market share performance relative to margin and how that’s playing out in the strategy and how you’re executing the strategy.
What’s changed or what’s evolving within that if you could speak to that.
Certainly as we’ve talked about with our sales and ops planning I think we’re doing a much better job approaching the business on a cross-functional basis which is helping get the promotional cadence right helping with the lines making sure that we responded to demand that we saw in the second quarter.
And certainly with the resets the value improvement those types of things we think we’re starting to hit our stride so that we’re moving through those got a good cadence to them continuing with the markdown and clearing of the older inventory as the offsets get more normalized after we’ve done that sell through.
We’re starting to continue to see the margin performance that we anticipated.
So we’re optimistic about the path we’re on and as we’ve indicated expect a majority of those resets to be done by the end of the year.
So we feel good about that and our ability to be able to deliver our margin goals for the second half.
I would just add a couple of things to that.
First and this reference is back to the sales and ops planning that Greg’s talked about [Vince Knowles] and the store teams have done an outstanding job this year in driving attachment of items to the project item.
Much better than we’ve done in the past.
Increasing the basket size so that we’re able to add the entire margin components onto the total transaction from a store standpoint.
That goes back to a lot of the training that he and the leaders of store operations rolled out in the past year of selling at Lowe’s getting the stores to really understand attachment and assisting the customer throughout the entire project has really been benefit to helping us drive that margin.
And again that goes back to a lot of the sales planning that Greg’s talked about earlier.
The other thing that I think we’ve done a great job on is understanding the reset activity itself.
We’ve talked about a lot of missteps when we first started rolling this out last year going back into understanding the flow of the reset making go no go decisions based upon preset guard rails and criteria before we allow it to hit the store driving a better overall reset for the store to execute against with the consumer when they come in helping us manage the amount of nonproductive inventory to a greater degree so we’re not seeing that have as big a drag on us as we did last year at the same time.
And probably the last element would be our big ticket categories we performed very well with the balance of driving sales and driving margin.
So as you can tell from the categories that performed above average you wouldn’t see that kind of margin performance unless we manage those very well and it was great execution I think on the part of the teams on the sales floor.
They were able to be able to deliver these big ticket projects and items to customers with a good margin outcome.
As always thanks for your continued interest in Lowe’s.
We look forward to speaking with you again when we report our third quarter 2013 results Wednesday November 20.
Have a great day.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Lowe's Companies Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Also supplemental reference slides are available on Lowe's investor relations website within the investor packet.
While management will not be speaking directly to the slides these slides are meant to facilitate your review of the company's results and to be used as a reference document following the call.
During this call management will be using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The supplemental reference slides include information about these measures and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management's expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
Those risks are described in the company's earnings release and in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Hosting today's conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Mr.
Greg Bridgeford Chief Customer Officer; and Mr.
Bob Hull Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the program over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in Lowe's.
I'm pleased that we've delivered another solid quarter driven by balanced performance.
Comparable sales for the quarter were 6.2% once again driven by balance of ticket and transaction growth.
We grew positive comps in 11 of our 12 product categories in the quarter.
In fact outdoor power equipment the only outlier was achieving solid positive comps into the last week of the quarter when faced with a substantial headwind from the sales of generators the result of Superstorm Sandy.
We also saw strength in all regions of the country with double-digit comp performance in Florida as well as particular strength in California and Arizona.
Markets for the housing recovery is well under way.
And our ProServices business continued to perform well across the country.
Our balanced performance is a testament to our enhanced sales and operations planning process applied to the stronger base we've been building with value improvement product differentiation and our store labor investment.
I'm also pleased with our performance in Canada.
We have a new leadership team in place and for the second consecutive quarter they've delivered double-digit comps in local currency.
Gross margin expanded 26 basis points.
We effectively controlled expenses and we delivered earnings per share of $0.47 for the quarter a 34.3% increase to last year's third quarter.
Delivering on our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders in the third quarter we repurchased $761 million of stock and paid $191 million in dividends.
As I mentioned we've enhanced our sales and operations planning effort a process that is led by our customer experience design team within Greg's organization.
The intent is to better understand and anchor around the consumer mindset season-to-season and to change the way we go to market through coordinated planning across channels that binds together every function on our organization.
That cross-functional effort has produced a comprehensive and coordinated view of the path ahead allowing us to leverage resources to drive sales and margin.
Greg will provide more details in a few minutes leveraging our All for Fall campaign as a tangible example of this effort.
Now looking to consumer landscape going forward.
Our most recent consumer sentiment studies suggest that consumers are adopting a more resilient mindset and as a result embracing a broader perspective.
During the recession consumers had a very focused perspective the result of household budgetary constraints.
Their primary concern was how to adapt to what felt like a free fall.
That perspective has started to broaden as consumers have gained a foothold and we're seeing it play out strengthening home improvement affinity metrics an increasing number of installed sales leads as well as in the strength of large project category performance.
So despite the recent government shutdown and falloff in home affordability the home improvement industry is poised for persisting growth in the fourth quarter.
As for our year-to-date performance and outlook for the balance of the year we've raised our fiscal year 2013 guidance.
We expect further acceleration of industry growth next year.
Stronger job and income growth improving household financial conditions and the lagging benefit of the recovery in home buying will be key drivers.
In closing our sales and operations planning process applied to the stronger base we've been building with value improvement product differentiation and our store labor investment together with our associates' hard work and continued dedication to serving customers has improved our level of execution allowing us to more fully capitalize on market demand in 2013.
Thanks again for your interest.
And with that let me turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Robert.
Good morning everyone.
Our third quarter performance reflected our improving collaboration and execution within a strengthening home improvement market.
We performed particularly well in large project categories such as flooring and kitchens and appliances.
The strength of these large project categories reflects an emerging willingness among consumers to finally replace items that are worn or outdated or to make significant enhancements to their homes.
Large project discretionary spending is still far below prerecession peaks but we are seeing steady improvement.
We also performed well in fashion fixtures and paint as we were well prepared with the right products and advice to assist customers as they spruced up their interiors in advance of the holidays.
We're pleased that our improved performance is enabling us to take advantage of home improvement market growth.
This is due in large part to our enhanced sales and operations planning process.
Through this process we have addressed an opportunity to improve seasonal planning including the cadence of product introductions promotions and staffing.
We've always planned and executed these seasons in our stores.
Previous planning was completed function by function and reconciled to minimize conflicts.
Now the process starts earlier and is anchored on the customer mindset for the season.
The process more thoroughly considers detailed input from all functions to determine resource allocation and it enables Lowe's to provide a consistent message and experience across all selling channels: stores Lowes.com contact centers and in-home selling.
Our recent All for Fall campaign which ran from late August through the end of October is a great example how the enhanced process works.
Our planning began earlier than it would have under the legacy process.
And instead of each function separately developing its own plan to achieve our comp and margin targets we started with 2 key customer mindsets for the fall.
First customers wanted to complete fall maintenance projects such as prepping the lawn for next spring planting and sealing windows and doors to save energy during the winter.
And then they transitioned to make their homes' interior more inviting to holiday guests.
We anchored in the mindsets to determine the projects customers would complete the key products needed which of those products should be promoted to drive traffic what product should be merchandised nearby as project completers helping to build the basket how much inventory would be needed when it would need to be available and what staffing and training was needed for each store department.
Then we staged the introduction of new product and sets based on climatic zone.
This planning process while capturing input from many different teams was centrally managed by Bob Gfeller's customer experience design team.
Bob's team communicated the final plans both the underlying insights and the implementation steps.
This approach drove better understanding of each function's role in the plan's success and consistency of execution across channels.
This season's theme All for Fall was also clearly and consistently messaged across all media and was used in theme store displays built across merchandising.
We believe that our particularly strong performance in fall interior project categories like flooring kitchens and appliances fashion fixtures and paint is evidenced that our coordinated All for Fall campaign resonated well with customers.
And remember this enhanced sales and operations planning process is made more effective by other elements of our transformation undertaken since 2011 including the organizational changes we made last year our product differentiation initiative which drives customer engagement through better display techniques and facilitates the smooth execution of seasonal themes and product introductions and our value improvement initiative which is providing the right product assortments and inventory depth by location.
All these elements work in concert to improve the customer experience.
Having just mentioned value improvement I'd like to take a moment to update you in the progress of this initiative.
At the end of the third quarter we had completed resets representing approximately 80% of our business and we expect to substantially complete the initial round of resets in 2013.
As a reminder the financial benefit of value improvement is greatest once we have reached stabilization that is when we are past clearance and selling only new assortments.
We estimate that roughly 2/3 of our business was at this stage at the end of the third quarter.
Value improvement is captured in our improved comp performance and we continue to obtain average gross margin rate improvement of roughly 100 basis points for product lines that have reached stabilization.
Beginning in 2014 value improvement would be fully operationalized and no longer separately tracked as an initiative.
Examples of resets completed in the third quarter include core products like thermostats and electrical tools; decor products such as wall sconces and decorative shelving; and seasonal products such as leaf blowers and fireplace gas logs.
In addition to the value improvement resets we are investing to improve the customers' in-store experience.
One example of our implementation -- is our implementation of mobile functionality that helps customers locate products in our stores.
Customers can create a shopping list and plan their route before arriving at the store.
While there they can check items off the list as they shop ensuring they get everything they need accurately and efficiently.
We'll share further plans to improve our customer experience as we enter 2014.
Likewise we continue to invest in inventory.
Using intelligence provided by value improvement together with our sales and operations planning process we are leaning into increasing demand as we bolstered job-like quantities to benefit pros increase overall in-stock service levels and present compelling end cap displays.
We expect that these incremental inventory investments will be completed this year and we'll be positioned to achieve greater inventory productivity.
We've also invested in additional weekday labor hours to improve close rates.
As a reminder we added an average of approximately 150 hours per week to the staffing model for nearly 2/3 of our stores.
These hours were allocated to interior areas of the store supporting key fall projects identified within the sales and operations planning process.
While we realized improving benefits from this program in the third quarter this incremental investment caused payroll deleverage as expected at this point in the program.
We continue to monitor this initiative's performance and will make adjustments as necessary.
Finally I am pleased to share that through the first 3 quarters approximately 87% of our U.S.
stores have qualified for a service and sales employee initiative or SSEI payment.
As a reminder SSEI is our profit-sharing program for hourly associates.
Thank you for your interest in Lowe's.
And I'll now turn it over to Bob.
Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
Sales for the third quarter were $13 billion which was an increase of 7.3%.
Total customer transactions increased 5.7% and total average ticket increased 1.5% to $64.07.
As you know we acquired 72 Orchard Supply Hardware stores on August 30.
Orchard's smaller format neighborhood hardware stores are located in densely populated markets and offer a product selection focused on paint repair and dockyard categories.
As a result Orchard stores had more transactions per square foot but fewer per store and a lower average ticket than a traditional Lowe's store.
So while Orchard aided total sales by approximately 75 basis points and added roughly 175 basis points to our transaction growth it negatively impacted average ticket growth by almost 100 basis points.
The Orchard stores are considered non-comp and will be included in our comp sales calculation after the anniversary of the acquisition in Q3 2014.
Comp sales were 6.2% for the quarter.
Looking at monthly trends comps were 7.3% in August 5.6% in September and 5.8% in October.
For the quarter comp transactions increased 3.6% and comp average ticket increased 2.5%.
As Robert noted our sales and operations planning process applied to a stronger base we've been building with value improvement product differentiation and our store labor investment allowed us to more fully capitalize on market demand.
Additionally inflation added roughly 25 basis points to the comps while last year's hurricanes Sandy and Isaac were a headwind of approximately 45 basis points.
Year-to-date sales of $41.8 billion were up 5.8% versus the first 3 quarters of 2012 driven by a 5.1% increase in comp sales new stores and the acquisition of Orchard Supply Hardware.
Gross margin for the third quarter was 34.58% of sales which increased 26 basis points over Q3 last year.
The biggest driver of the increase was value improvement which helped gross margin by 52 basis points.
Our estimate of the improvement net the clearance impact of the resets against the benefit of the stabilized lines.
This improvement was offset somewhat by the following items.
First our proprietary credit value proposition negatively impacted gross margin by 14 basis points.
This is driven by higher penetration of our proprietary credit program which reached 26.6% of sales an increase of 145 basis points over Q3 2012.
The negative margin impact was more than offset by expenses leverage associated with the program which I will comment on in a moment.
Also competitive pressures in the market impacted the level of appliance promotions which reduced gross margin by an estimated 10 basis points.
Lastly the mix of products sold modestly hurt gross margin in the quarter.
Year-to-date gross margin of 34.57% of sales is an increase of 27 basis points over the same period last year.
SG&amp;A for Q3 was 24.56% of sales which leveraged 47 basis points.
In the quarter we incurred long-lived asset impairment and discontinued project expenses of $10 million.
This compares to $52 million in similar charges last year resulting in 35 basis points of SG&amp;A leverage in this year's third quarter.
Risk insurance leveraged 35 basis points in the quarter.
We are self-insured for certain claims related to workers' comp and general liabilities.
Due to the duration of the claims we discount our liability.
As discussed in Q3 of last year we reduced the discount rate applied to incurred but not reported claims which increased Q3 2012's insurance expense by $33 million and was the primary driver of expense leverage this year [ph].
Also we experienced 31 basis points of leverage associated with our proprietary credit program.
The leverage was driven primarily by lower operating costs including costs associated with promotional financing.
Contract labor leveraged 20 basis points as we cycled against an elevated level of spending for information technology projects in Q3 last year.
These items were somewhat offset by incentive compensation expense which deleveraged 41 basis points as a result of higher expected attainment levels relative to last year.
During the quarter store payrolls deleveraged 16 basis points.
Payroll dollars were up approximately 9% versus Q3 last year which includes the additional weekday hours investment.
Resets and remerchandising expense deleveraged 16 basis points driven by the efforts Greg described to improve customer experiences.
Year-to-date SG&amp;A was 23.52% of sales which leveraged 39 basis points versus the same period last year.
Depreciation for the quarter was $373 million which was 2.88% of sales and leveraged 20 basis points compared with last year's third quarter as a result of the sales growth.
In Q3 earnings before interest and taxes or EBIT increased 93 basis points to 7.14% of sales.
Year-to-date EBIT was 8.43% of sales which was 85 basis points higher than the same period last year.
For the quarter interest expense was $125 million and deleveraged 2 basis points to last year as a percent of sales.
Total expenses for Q3 were 28.41% of sales and leveraged 65 basis points.
Year-to-date total expenses were 26.97% of sales and leveraged 54 basis points versus last year.
Pretax earnings for the quarter were 6.17% of sales the effective tax rate was 37.6% which was essentially flat to last year.
Net earnings were $499 million for the quarter an increase of 26% over Q3 2012.
Earnings per share of $0.47 for the third quarter were up 34.3% to last year.
The $0.47 were roughly $0.05 per share higher than our expectations.
Year-to-date earnings per share of $1.84 represents a 29.6% increase over the same period last year.
Now to a few items on the balance sheet starting with assets.
Cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of the quarter was $1.1 billion.
Our third quarter inventory balance of $9.6 billion increased $598 million or 6.7% versus Q3 last year.
The increase was driven by higher inventory levels to support demand and the addition of 72 Orchard Supply stores.
Inventory turnover calculated by taking a trailing 4 quarters cost of sales divided by average inventory for the last 5 quarters was 3.71 a decrease of 4 basis points versus last year.
Return on assets determined using a trailing 4 quarters earnings divided by average assets for the last 5 quarters increased 98 basis points to 6.72%.
Moving on to the liabilities section of the balance sheet.
Accounts payable of $5.8 billion represented a 6.6% increase over Q3 last year which was consistent with the increase in inventory.
In the third quarter we issued $1 billion of unsecured bonds.
The bonds were split between 10- and 30-year issuances with a weighted average interest rate of 4.44%.
At the end of the third quarter the lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 2.17x.
Return on invested capital calculated using the trailing 4 quarters earnings plus tax adjusted interest divided by average debt and equity over the last 5 quarters increased 187 basis points for the quarter to 11.26%.
Looking at the statement of cash flows.
Cash flow from operations was nearly $3.9 billion an increase of $351 million over last year largely due to the earnings growth.
Capital expenditures were $610 million a 36% decrease from last year.
As a result year-to-date free cash flow of nearly $3.3 billion was 27% higher than last year.
In August we entered into a $500 million accelerated share repurchase agreement.
At this point we expect to receive 10.5 million shares but the ultimate number of shares will be determined upon completion of the program in the fourth quarter.
Also in the third quarter we repurchased 5.5 million additional shares for $261 million through the open market.
For the quarter we repurchased a total of $761 million.
We have approximately $2.2 billion remaining on our share repurchase authorization.
Looking ahead I'd like to address several items detailed in Lowe's business outlook.
Based on our year-to-date performance and our outlook for the fourth quarter we've raised our 2013 guidance for the second time this year.
We expect total sales to increase by approximately 6% primarily driven by comp sales increase of approximately 5%.
We expect to open 9 stores for the year.
We're anticipating an EBIT increase of approximately 75 basis points.
The effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 37.8%.
As a result of these inputs we're expecting earnings per share of approximately $2.15 which represents an increase of 27% over 2012.
For the year we are forecasting cash flow from operations to be approximately $3.8 billion our forecast for capital expenditures is approximately $900 million.
This results in estimated free cash flow of $2.9 billion for 2013.
Our guidance assumes approximately $3.7 billion in share repurchases for 2013.
For the year we expect that lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR will be at or below 2.25x.
Regina we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bob can you give us any more details on what the impact that Orchard had on the quarter specifically on gross margin and SG&amp;A? And I know you listed out some items already on SG&amp;A but I'm particularly curious on that line item.
Scot so Orchard had relative modest impact.
I gave you the sales impact which is 75 basis points.
Orchard's gross margin is modestly higher than the company's.
But remember we only had 2 months of activity in the 3-month quarter.
From an SG&amp;A perspective not much impact other than we had roughly 5 basis points of deal-related expenses included in the quarter.
That obviously was included in our guidance for the quarter but would not have been included in Q3 last year.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then the compensation that you noted the 41 basis points that's executive compensation? Is that separate from the incentive comps of the stores? Can you just give us more clarity on that and kind of the way to think about that part going forward? So Scot that is all incentive compensation.
That would include the SSEI that Greg spoke of that is entirely store-based that would be the store manager program that would be DCs and that would be the corporate office.
By far the largest share of that expense is stores.
Also recognize that there's some timing involved in the accruals for incentive compensation.
So while it's up 41 basis points to last year in the third quarter it's only supposed -- expected to be up roughly 15 basis points to last year for the year.
So you have to think about the rate of accrual this year versus last year.
But it did have a pronounced impact in Q3 this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> I was wondering if you could just talk about how you're thinking about the pace of growth transitioning from 3Q into 4Q if you take the approximate 6% comps this quarter and then the pace down to I guess 4-ish implied by the guidance.
Well Dennis I'll start.
Certainly there's a couple of things that we spoke about.
Certainly cycling against Hurricane -- Superstorm Sandy last year and the sales associated with that.
So that's obviously a headwind in the quarter.
As you know in most years the fourth quarter's probably our most weather-susceptible quarter.
And so certainly not knowing what the weather is going to hold last year if you remember the month of January had extremely favorable weather.
So we are cycling up against even if it's not unfavorable weather this year we are cycling against a fairly favorable weather last year.
So we took all of that into account.
And so it's just a case of always wanting to be somewhat conservative closer to the end knowing that it's out there.
So I think all of those would be implied into the top line in the comp guidance which was in our updated outlook.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just based on that last comment of conservatism is it fair to say that November so far is running above that guidance? Yes I don't think you would sense there Dennis that we feel more comfortable with our outlook for the balance of the year.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just secondly can you elaborate a little bit more on the appliance promotion headwind that you talked about in the quarter? Greg? Yes Dennis.
This is Greg Bridgeford.
I'll be happy to elaborate on that.
It is a -- relative to larger-ticket categories and appliances is the key one.
It is more of a promotional environment out there and there's a lot of media out there.
And we've indicated early on in the year we're going to drive it as what we believe to be an effective blend of traffic-driving promotional activities and especially through the sales and operations planning process make sure we are coordinated across the channels and across the messages we were sending and especially in store.
And that's what we did in Q3.
It was as promotional as we expected it to be and there is a -- this is a peak period for appliance sales pre-Thanksgiving.
So we did see -- we performed well in appliances one of our best-performing categories.
And we're excited the addition of LG this year has meant a lot to be a leader in innovation in appliances with both LG and Samsung promoted and highlighted on our floors.
Our next question will come from the line of Mike Baker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So you talked about the large-product discretionary sales still being below past peak.
Can you talk about -- can you sort of quantify that where you are versus past peak and also the trough after the recession? And I didn't hear -- maybe I missed it but I didn't hear you talk about growth in tickets less than $50 or greater than $500 as you sometimes talk about.
Mike we have those figures and we'll come back to that.
But let me start by giving you some context.
We've done that 2 by 2 that you've seen so often about small ticket/large ticket nondiscretionary/discretionary.
And in the discretionary large ticket category it really hasn't moved appreciably.
We are seeing in sales some movement but we think it's from a -- it's relatively a small segment of the market right now that has the income that feels confident to spend on some discretionary categories.
But overall we still think it's a slow build because as we've tracked this through the last 6 years we're still seeing that large discretionary spend inch up as opposed to make some significant leaps.
Bob do you want to talk about that too? I got it.
Mike this is Robert.
On the slides that we provided for you that detail is in those slides on 2 of the slides but I'll give it to you.
Less than $50 up 3%; $50 to $500 up 5.6; and greater than $500 up 8.6%.
Research Division</strong> I haven't seen the slides yet.
The -- one other question just this quarter there were some incentive comp and other things.
But can you remind us the kind of comp that you feel like you need to leverage your SG&amp;A excluding all onetimers that show up? So like we've talked about generally speaking we need a one comp to get to a flattish and then beyond that 1 point of comp drives roughly 20 basis points of EBIT growth.
Obviously my response to Scot's question I mentioned there is some fluctuations quarter-to-quarter in how incentive compensation's accrued relative to last year.
So that's a pronounced impact this year.
Also in both Greg and my comments we talked about reset and remerch activity.
Think about that as preparing for next year's sales.
We're including -- that included resets and customer experiences separate ad events since Q4 and beyond.
So that's not necessarily a periodic expense more of an investment for future sales.
Research Division</strong> But generally we can keep that rule of thumb for -- on an annual basis.
Generally speaking yes.
Our next question will come from the line of Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just one thing on the third quarter.
You said that the earnings were $0.05 better than your plan.
I assume that the sales were favorable.
But can you break it down a little bit how much of it was sales and then gross margins presumably a little less than you had anticipated just a little more color around that.
Sure Pete.
This is Bob.
Our sales were roughly $300 million higher than our implied guidance for the third quarter.
The margin rate was modestly worse largely due to the impact of the credit value proposition.
The performance and the customer take on the program continues to be above our expectations which is a good thing.
As I noted we had more than offset by lower promotional financing costs within SG&amp;A.
And then we only added roughly about $20 million of SG&amp;A higher than our implied guidance.
So that really drove the $0.05 beat.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful Bob.
And then a bigger picture question.
Just trying to understand your current store portfolio and how it compares to how the company looked back in 2005 when you guys had your peak sales productivity and operating margins.
I mean you've added about 500 stores since then.
Can you help us understand that bucket of stores and how they're performing right now relative to the rest of the business? Are they in line? Are they noticeably better? Are they lagging? What can you tell us about that? So relative to 2005 our average sales since 2005 were roughly $37 million.
The traditional big-box stores this year will do just a hair below $30 million.
So to a degree all boats have fallen based on what happened to housing in prior years.
As we think about store performance age of store is less of a predictor.
It's more about location of the store and the local market performance and the state of housing.
Yes there were some stores that were opened in the 2006 '07 '08 timetable that underperformed.
Some of those closed in 2011.
But as we culled the pipeline and reduced the number of new store openings the productivity of those stores has been really really positive over the past couple of years.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Feldman with Telsey Advisory Group.
I wanted to get a little more color on the Pro customer.
I know you mentioned the ProServices were solid.
But can you just give any more color on maybe how the trends were percent of sales any incremental changes that you're noticing and maybe what they're buying are they making bigger purchases on the trips or not? Joe I'll start and then I know Rick is going to add in.
We've seen -- as we've mentioned we've seen that particular segment of our customer base outperform any other segment.
And that is intuitive given the strength of commercial sales in the marketplace today under -- as you look at any third-party research.
We have a number of Pro initiatives going on.
I'll start in merchandising.
We've actually restructured our merchandising group to make sure that we have -- are providing relevant commercial assortments project-based assortments that both have the breadth of product and the depth of product that we needed.
Thus the inventory investment we made earlier this year.
It was targeted to what we call the center of our store which is rough plumbing rough electrical hardware power tool accessories some of those categories that are key to commercial customer supply.
Rick may want to add in some comments on Pro.
Yes absolutely.
When you look at this Joe when you look at our Pro sales we had strong performance across all operating divisions.
And as Greg mentioned the sales of Pro continue to outpace our DIY consumer and did so again in this quarter.
Our average ticket increased by $2.38 year-over-year driven primarily by ticket size and transaction.
But ticket was the primary grower/driver of the performance growing at 8.2 -- 8.9% when you look at it from that way.
We saw traffic increase in all ticket buckets with the greatest amount being driven in the medium-range ticket growth area.
Got it.
That's great.
And then another kind of similar question.
I know you mentioned that all regions were positive.
I was kind of curious.
Again if you kind of look at what was selling in the various regions are you seeing any big differences beyond the normal like maybe the housing markets that are recovering a little faster at the moment is what they're spending on different than some of the slower-recovering markets? Yes this is Robert Joe.
I mean we're seeing obviously as we said widespread strength across the country.
Certainly I've talked about California Florida Arizona areas where we're seeing housing recover.
As we've said is that -- one of -- we feel good about now the recovery is taking place out there in housing.
We expect that to continue through the fourth quarter and obviously into 2014.
And one of the big drivers is where home values are increasing consumers are feeling better about moving gradually into larger and larger projects.
So whether that's -- in some markets that may be windows when they're doing work there.
At other times it may be refreshing the inside of the home the bath those types of things.
Obviously we -- how I end up a lot of the categories when you think about flooring kitchen appliances paints all of those being above average for the company where you're seeing the consumer reinvest in the home.
So we saw a nice balanced strength across the country and we expect that to continue as housing values continue to recover.
Joe this is Greg.
To layer on to Robert's comments where we've seen some particular category strengths in some of the areas where we're -- where housing is on quite an upturn is in the fashion fixtures category in kitchens and appliances.
And it's really interesting because it's more of a refresh than a remodel activity.
So you're seeing some delayed -- in some cases it's projects that may have been delayed for 4 years in particular parts of the country where housing values have been on a rise for the last 18 months and the last 12 months.
So we're -- our focus is on bath refresh and kitchens and appliances where the opportunity is available.
And that's -- that did very well for us in Q3.
Perfect.
That's really helpful.
And if I can indulge one more question.
The buyback trend seems a little bit slower than I think what we had initially thought.
Any color you can provide there? No I think Joe coming into the year we said the buyback would be roughly pro rata across the 4 quarters.
It's modestly lower in the third quarter but we're still targeting $3.7 billion for the year which is up $100 million from our thinking 90 days ago.
Your next question comes from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess I have 2 questions.
First on Orchard Supply what's implied in the guidance for Q4 and will it be accretive? Or how do you think about that? I'll start just with overall.
Just remind me and I'll have Budd then I'll have Bob jump into the guidance.
As you know we bought assets at 72 locations.
We didn't buy the entire company.
So coming out of bankruptcy we bought the assets of 72 locations.
That's why they're not comped.
We don't have prior districts built in the numbers.
So it's just from the performance of those 72 locations from the August 30 date going forward.
And so Bob what's built into our guidance? Yes I think as we think about fourth quarter Budd should add about $125 million in sales or about 110 basis points to sales growth.
For the year Orchard is going to be modestly dilutive about $0.01 per share which does include the deal cost I mentioned previously.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just on that just making sure what was it in this quarter? Was it the $0.01 in this quarter or would the $0.01 be in the fourth quarter or is it a half and half? Half and half.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my second question really goes to appliances.
You talked about 10 basis points of margin degradation.
Appliances are about 10% of your overall business if it's still true as it was in 2012.
That implies that the overall appliance margin was down about 100 basis points on the appliance sales.
What's the outlook for Q4? How does that impact overall gross margin? Are you going to get any help from the vendors? Maybe you can go into a little detail of what's implied in your guidance and how we should think about all that.
Yes Budd I'll start.
This is Greg.
The focus on our work in Q4 is that -- is to make sure that we continue the sales momentum.
And I think we're always adjusting the balance of promotional activity from ticket to traffic-driving and basket-building.
And that's the work of that process I talked about today called sales and ops planning.
So as we move past Thanksgiving we move into seasonal categories.
We move into gift-giving opportunities like tools and hardware.
We move into home fashions.
We move into cleaning and home organization.
So we're in a -- we have to drive against those occasions appropriately and we're watching that balance very very carefully.
We're continuing to work on value improvement which we're moving further down the cycle virtually completing all the resets at the end of this quarter and moving to stabilization on a significantly larger portion of the business.
We have resets going on in value improvement in Q4 because we have capacity to reset particularly in December.
So when you put that body of work together we're -- we recognize that there is opportunity in the appliance category right now.
We're trying to manage it appropriately through sales and ops planning.
We also have lots of other opportunities on the occasion and we will carefully manage and lead the blend of that business.
Our next question will come from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to start out by asking about the labor investment and just get a sense from you as to the return on that labor investment that you think you extracted this quarter and how that compares to your big picture expectations for that program.
Matt I'll start just a little bit and turn it over.
Obviously everything we're doing we're talking about value improvement product differentiation labor all of those things I think come together to see some of what you're seeing in the comp performance that we've had out there.
We're starting to see an improvement on our close rates.
So I think the investments are I think resonating with the consumer.
Certainly as you know our average customer doesn't shop every day.
So when we went into this we knew with the incremental labor investments that it is something that we recognize the customer would build over time.
So -- and I think we talked about in prior calls that it takes a little while to get the jobs filled with the right people ensure with everybody that they work permanent weekday positions.
We feel really good about where we're at now and we're starting to see the benefits of that.
But no we knew it would be a drag at this point because as we said we're making an investment really to build that experience that will build over time so -- Rick? Absolutely Matt one of the things I think that we learned as we move from the first half of the year into the back half of the year is how we allocate those hours across the store.
We communicated in the initial rollout that they were used as flex moving across the store interacting with customers throughout.
As part of the sales and operation planning focus during the second half of the year we've allocated those hours into the departments as Greg highlighted that we expect to drive incremental traffic to.
So we're redeploying them more specifically into areas therefore being able to provide greater depth of training into the areas that we'll be focused in this quarter.
As Robert highlighted the hours investment along with value improvement product differentiation go-to allow us to capitalize on the market that is being driven in the marketplace.
We went into the second quarter we talked about gaining momentum coming out of the quarter.
Pleased to say that momentum continued throughout Q3 and drove approximately 200 basis points of close rate improvement in Q3 compared to last year.
Research Division</strong> If I could just follow up I guess on expenses more broadly.
The incremental operating margin that you drove this quarter clearly I think it was a bit lighter than where the Street was.
I guess many of us looked at the numbers excluding the impairments last year.
I know those are real dollars but we don't really build them into our base.
And I guess the labor investment and the incentive comp were probably the 2 outliers I would guess to Street numbers.
So Bob if you think about the -- whether you view this quarter as sort of an outlier from an expense growth perspective or whether this is sort of the run rate that you think we should consider would be very helpful color for us for the go-forward.
Sure Matt.
So you mentioned potential outliers from where the Street were and 2 items you mentioned were incentive comp and labor investments.
The third item I would give you is the reset and remerchandising expense.
So as we think about our business they're not all periodic expenses.
As Robert mentioned with the labor hour investment just because you add somebody in a department today doesn't mean the customer shows up the same day and they're able to interact with that associate.
So some things do take time.
As I mentioned with the incentive comp it's lumpy based on the rate of accrual going forward.
I think Matt in prior conversations a lot of discussion regarding Lowe's ability to capitalize on the market how well are we doing from a comp sales perspective how well are we doing from a market share perspective.
For the first 3 quarters of 2013 we are growing with the market something we couldn't have said in prior years.
We feel good about that.
As we think about investing in our business we expect to generate returns on these investments whether it's SG&amp;A or inventory it just doesn't show up in the same quarter.
Research Division</strong> And consequently the dollar growth rate would you expect it -- I mean clearly incentive comp is lumpy but as you think about the end impact for labor for the next couple of quarters should that persist and just sort of wait for the business to build? The labor will persist until we cycle the investment last year.
As was described previously as we think about the training and classification and positioning of those employees to better match up with the seasons and the sales and ops planning process to ensure that their positioned for how likely to incent with customers and generate a return.
Your next question will come from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Two questions.
First of all I think within the numbers that if I remember right the October improved a little bit from September.
And I know October is when the Sandy compare began.
I'm just wondering if you could give a little bit more color on the month of October.
In light of that were there other areas that improved in October that might be sustainable? Or was more of your Sandy influence showing up later into November? Eric relative to last year we did have Sandy improvement sales associated with Sandy towards the tail end of Q3 last year obviously all hitting in October not a substantial amount of money.
As I think about the rate of growth I think we saw some improvement in some of the bigger-ticket categories in October relative to September.
And Greg can probably...
Yes we did Eric.
And that was -- one of the keys was that some of the big-ticket categories related to prepping home for the holidays began to kick in in October real strength in flooring strength in kitchens strength in appliances strength in fashion fixtures and most specifically fashion bath.
So those were -- that was some of the impact that you saw sequentially from September to October.
Great.
And then secondly if you could give us a bit of an update of as you're working through the line review process and wrapping that up here shortly what the next phase of that might look like how that is continuing or evolving from the first effort given the pace of what you're doing in those areas as we move into '14 and beyond relative to what you've experienced over the last 12 or 18 months.
Yes absolutely Eric.
The -- what you're seeing in the fourth quarter now is a completion of the resets of what we would call the first round of accelerated product line reviews or value improvement category programs.
In some categories we are actually in round 3.
So this is an ongoing process.
But we have taken a step back and we did this beginning 9 months ago.
And we reset kind of the cadence of the process about 6 months ago and said "Here's the categories that we're going to go through full line reviews on at least an annual basis." And as you know in some categories appliances for example because of new product introductions and staying on top of innovations we actually have to review categories in some cases more than annually on a cadence.
In other categories we said we're going to review those on a mini basis in excess of more than -- in excess of a year 18 months or 24-month basis.
And in some categories we're going to go in and do some tweaks some business reviews in those categories.
On kind of a constant basis we probably could be on a 3-year rotation.
So we really stratified the 400 categories into what's appropriate for those categories and where -- and but again it's an ongoing process.
The key is that if you -- and we all tend to forget the focus of why we're doing it.
We're doing it to create values from using the insights and the information that customers give us about the buying occasions that these categories are represented in and to drive better line design and therefore drive better productivity out of that.
So that's helped us quantify what's the timing of each of these.
Does that make sense? Yes and within the timing -- I appreciate that.
Within the strategy in implementing or executing this is it fair to say that similar to sort of the earlier part of today's discussion that it's a little bit more balanced than achieving market share progress in comps or with margin and inventory progress? How is the balance of that different in the second or third version of this relative to the first? I think it is.
What we're actually trying to drive through the ongoing improvements to this category that Mike Jones is leading in merchandising is to go back and make sure we've utilized the consumer insights and research.
Because line design as the primary focus of we think has -- we've hit the marks in a fairly large percentage of the reviews but we still have some improvements to make there.
If we do that we get that better balance.
We get better productivity out of the lines.
We do it each share but we achieve better what I would call operating margin flow-through.
This is Bob.
Just 2 points back to your first question on monthly comp progression looking back at Q3 last year we did a 3.4% in September and a 1.3% in October.
It's a little bit easier comparison in October.
As it relates to storm activity in Q3 last year we saw sales associated with Isaac and Sandy in Q3 '12 roughly offset by Irene sales in Q3 '11.
So storm activity was relatively flat for Q3 last year.
Your final question will come from the line of Christopher Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
So big picture you mentioned the 20 basis points of EBIT margin expansion per point of comp above 1.
But to your point Bob as you think about next year you get the major reset expenses behind you.
You're going to lap the incremental labor that you put into the stores.
And there should still be a lag benefit from -- to the gross margin line from the reset activity.
So shouldn't that 20-bp rule look a bit better as we get this stuff behind us? As we think about 2014 and we'll certainly provide a lot more color on 2014 on our Q4 call.
As we think about what's next beyond value improvement and the works of Bob Gfellar's organization in the sales and ops planning process there will be some other investments in customer experience design.
Some of that is taking place in Q4 of this year.
And then the second thing as we think about 2014 Chris is our prior outlook regarding '13 '14 and '15 did not have any expenses associated with the Affordable Care Act.
We have open enrollment at this point in time as we think about the individual mandate and the number of employees that are on our insurance plans in '14 relative to '13 is still unknown.
So we'll certainly provide more color on that and other initiatives on the Q4 call.
Research Division</strong> And then more as it relates to the fourth quarter.
Just to check my math based on what you said about the incentive comp pressure for the year about 15 basis points it looks like -- does that imply about 5 basis points or so of incentive comp accrual pressure year-to-year in the fourth quarter? And should the reset benefit to gross margin improve sequentially given the number of categories through stabilization? So yes as we think about the reset benefit that should be greater because greater lines stabilize in Q4 relative to Q3.
Having said that Greg noted this is peak time for appliances.
When we think about Black Friday morphing into Black November there's some risk on the margin line there that we're proceeding with caution.
As it relates to expenses Chris I'll give you some color on pushes and pulls for expenses for Q4.
The biggest delever is reset and remerchandising.
Call that 40 basis points; risk insurance about 20 basis points largely because we had huge favorability Q4 last year; credit about 20 basis points.
Again huge favorability Q4 of '12.
And then similar deleverage in operating salaries because of labor hour investment offset by incentive comp leverage of roughly 10; some contract labor impairment; and legal benefits in the 5- and 10-basis-point range.
Thanks again for your continued interest in Lowe's.
We look forward to speaking with you again when we report our fourth quarter 2013 results on Wednesday February 26.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's call.
Thank you all for joining and you may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Lowe’s Companies’ Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
(Operator Instructions) Also supplemental reference slides are available on Lowe’s Investor Relations website within the investor packet.
While management will not be speaking directly through the slide these slides are meant to facilitate your review of the company’s results and to be used as a reference document following the call.
During this call management will be using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The supplemental reference slides include information about these measures and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management’s expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
Those risks are described in the company’s earnings release and in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Hosting today’s conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Mr.
Greg Bridgeford Chief Customer Officer; and Mr.
Bob Hull Chief Financial Officer.
I would now turn the program over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Good morning and thank you for your interest in Lowe’s.
We delivered comparable sales growth of 3.9% for the quarter with positive comps in 10 of our 12 product categories and a continued balance of ticket and transaction growth.
And our ProServices business continued to perform well.
We achieved this growth despite a holiday season where the retail sector experienced softer sales than anticipated.
Through continued use of our enhanced sales and operations planning process we balanced softer sales of seasonal gift and holiday decorations with solid performance in core categories for interior refresh projects.
We continued to see strength in recovery markets with particular strength in California Arizona and Florida where the housing recovery is well underway.
In fact even with pressure exerted by extreme weather late in the quarter in the northern and central areas of the country we recorded positive comps in all regions except for the region most directly impacted by Superstorm Sandy recovery activity last year.
I am also pleased with our performance in Canada where the team has delivered double-digit comps in local currency for the third consecutive quarter.
Gross margin expanded 40 basis points in the quarter driven by a number of factors that Bob will discuss.
And we delivered earnings per share of $0.29 for the quarter which included approximately $0.02 of charges related to long-lived asset impairments.
For the year we delivered comparable sales growth of 4.8% our strongest annual comp since 2005.
Earnings per share were $2.14 a 26.6% increase over fiscal 2012.
Delivering on our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders in the quarter we repurchased $958 million of stock and paid $189 million in dividends.
For the year we repurchased $3.7 billion of stock and repaid $733 million in dividends.
Looking at the landscape for 2014 economic forecast suggest moderately accelerating growth.
Stronger job and income growth should create a more favorable environment for consumer spending which coupled with the lagged benefit of the housing recovery should generate continued growth in the home improvement industry.
While credit conditions remain tight relative to the housing boom years conditions are improving and household finances continue to strengthen which should also contribute to stronger growth in 2014.
Also supporting increased home improvement market growth is positive progression in consumers’ views around personal finances and home values that we saw in our fourth quarter consumer sentiment survey.
Homeowners continue to believe the value of their home is increasing and report that they are less likely to decrease spending.
With consumers more willing to invest in their homes the job and the income growth forecasted for 2014 should provide the wherewithal for continued home improvement spending.
In 2014 we will continue to capitalize on opportunities within an improving economy.
We will build on the momentum established in 2013 as we further optimize our business model.
We have substantially completed our initiatives to enhance retail relevance including value improvement product differentiation and our store labor investment and we will operationalize and refine these initiatives in 2014.
Our top line performance improved this year as a result of our focus on cross-functional collaboration and consistent execution along with our strategic initiatives which allowed us to more fully capitalize on market demand.
Now we are focused on improving our profitability even while investing in key capabilities to drive sales growth.
Over the longer term we remain committed to satisfying customers’ needs whenever and wherever they choose to engage with us into differentiating with better customer experiences than any other home improvement provider.
Determined to be a customer-centered omni-channel retailer we have been investing in infrastructure both systems and processes.
Our focus on transforming our current multi-channel offering in-store online including mobile technology in-home and by phone to an omni-channel experience with our brand.
Through enhanced customer service tools we expect to improve our associates’ ability to sell seamlessly across channels introduce new project management tools and to expand fulfillment capabilities beyond our bottom line pickup in store are partial fulfillment of online orders both of which we do today.
And we will cultivate personal and simple connections with customers over and above what was accomplished to-date with MyLowe’s.
These new capabilities are projected to be in market in 2015.
We will differentiate Lowe’s by delivering better customer experiences.
In order to help customers visualize our home improvement projects we will offer a cohesive group of products that provide relevant occasion-based solutions and will present them in an inspiring manner.
Greg will discuss further how we will begin building customer experience design capabilities in 2014.
The commitments we have made to improve for customers and shareholders require unrelenting determination.
Completing the transformation we have undertaken is not like flipping a switch it’s more gradual and deliberate like turning up the dial as we add new capabilities.
I want to thank our employees for their dedication and hard work toward this long-term commitment.
The momentum created by retail relevance initiatives are strengthening execution and our keen focus on productivity and flow-through give us confidence in our business outlook for 2014.
Bob will share those details in a few minutes.
Thanks again for your interest.
And with that let me turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Robert and good morning everyone.
We continue to drive balanced performance in the quarter with strong execution and further momentum from our initiatives.
We offset a soft holiday gift giving environment by assisting customers in preparing their home for guests and cleaning and organizing after the holidays.
For instance many customers were looking to replace their older appliances.
Using our enhanced sales and operations planning process we have tightly coordinated advertising promotions and inventory.
As a result we drew customers to Lowe’s and we met their needs through a broad assortment of innovative appliances which combined with our service advantages of next day delivery and haul away and in-house facilitation of service calls provides the best in customer service and simplicity.
We also drove strong sales of fashion fixtures both by making incandescent bulbs available to customers working to beat the government deadline and by providing compelling new fashion plumbing products and sets for customers who are refreshing their bathrooms.
And we know that winter weather can be unpredictable.
So we are ready to respond quickly to the demand for items needed to cope with the January storms across many markets in the northern and central areas of the country.
Customers needed snow blowers space heaters heating fuels snow shovels and ice melt as well as pipe fittings to replace those that burst from the extreme cold.
Working with our vendor partners we drove strong performance in these products using our distribution network to quickly and efficiently move them to where they were needed most.
Our performance in the quarter is also a testament to the improved line designs and inventory depth resulting from value improvement.
I am pleased to share that at the end of the quarter we had completely finished the first round of value improvement line reviews and substantially all of the associated resets.
We will continue to conduct line reviews in the normal course of business but the annual volume of resets will be lower going forward.
Examples of resets completed in the fourth quarter include core products like pliers and wrenches décor products such as bathroom vanities and pedestal sinks and seasonal products such as house and patio plants.
Value improvement is now fully operationalized.
This means that the improved line review and product reset processes are woven into our everyday business and are being used at an appropriate cadence for each of our nearly 400 product lines.
Even so we expect the initial round of value improvement resets to further contribute to our profitability in 2014 as we obtain a full year of benefits from resets completed over the course of 2013.
We are now better positioned to meet customers’ product needs and drive better inventory productivity.
We are also pleased that we modestly leveraged payroll expense in the quarter.
We have made the store labor investment more productive by refining our allocation of these hours by store and by selling department.
In the quarter we increased sales per hour by approximately 2%.
As we lap the introduction of the store labor investment in the first quarter we expect to obtain even greater leverage which will contribute to greater 2014 operating profit.
The store labor investment and value improvement are two of our initiatives designed to enhance retail relevance.
Our third is product differentiation which is intended to drive excitement in our stores through better display techniques including our revised end cap strategy and revamped promotional spaces.
Product differentiation has been reset in 1 400 stores to-date and will be rolled to the remaining U.S.
home improvement stores in the first half of 2014.
In addition to operationalizing our most recent initiatives in 2014 we will focus on driving more of our revenue growth to the bottom line through expense control and disciplined execution of our plans.
We will also focus on three priorities to drive further top line growth.
The first two aimed to capitalize on opportunities within an improving economy.
First we will use our enhanced selling and operations planning process to address micro-seasons by market.
And second we will improve our product and service offering for the pro customer.
Our third priority will be to build customer experience design capabilities.
Through our sales and operations planning process we have addressed an opportunity to improve seasonal planning including the cadence of product introductions promotions and staffing.
While we have always planned and executed these seasons in our stores previous planning was completed function by function and then reconciled to minimize conflicts now the process starts earlier and is anchored on the customer mindset for the season.
The process more thoroughly considers detailed input from all functions to determine resource allocation and it enables Lowe’s to provide a consistent messaging experience across all selling channels; stores Lowes.com contact centers and in-home selling.
We also have an opportunity to better capitalize on pro market which is growing faster than the consumer market.
We will do this by enhancing our product and service offering with this important customer.
While pros shop across the store the penetration of sales to pro customers is highest within the traditional building and maintenance categories including lumber and building materials millwork rough plumbing electrical and tools and hardware.
So we grouped those categories into the leadership of a general merchandise manager who is focused on ensuring we have the types of products and brands that pros demand.
Of course winning the pros business also requires great service to make doing business with us as quick and convenient as possible.
So we continue to ensure we reach out to pros through multiple channels whether in-store where we have dedicated specialists to answer questions and dedicated loaders to help and get back to the job quickly or the pros’ place of business where our account executives help regional maintenance repair and operations customers order and replenish products across multiple stores or through the national account representatives who assist the customers doing business with Lowe’s across the country.
In the second quarter we will re-launch LowesForPros.com which will provide a dedicated platform for pro customers to purchase online from Lowe’s.
LowesForPros will also allow pros to access contract pricing develop requisition list and view purchase history and LowesForPros will be enabled for convenient mobile access.
We also have an opportunity to more broadly enhance the customer experience.
Customers already give us credit for a better customer experience and we are strengthening that advantage.
We are developing a process to coordinate the elements of great occasion based customer experiences.
To clarify I would like to define occasion.
Customers don’t simply shop for products they shop to repair something to replace something to refresh a room or complete a major remodel.
These are occasions and we have the opportunity to build experience around these occasions that will inspire customer diversion differentiate Lowe’s in the marketplace and ultimately lead to superior business results.
To do so our customer experience design team is getting under the hood with customers understanding how they think about home improvement projects from planning shopping and buying to using and enjoying and based on these insights designing an ideal experience with all channels in mind.
Now that experience must meet three critical criteria.
First it must be desirable to a target customer.
Second it must be feasible in other words must fit within our organization’s competencies.
And third it must be viable something that we can deliver in a profitable and sustainable way.
In 2014 we will begin building these customer experience design capabilities.
We also – we will also introduce a number of changes to our stores and website that will become a stage for future experiences.
We will invest in experiences that we expect to drive market share growth and solid return for investors.
We expect 2014 reset expenses to be approximately flat to 2013 as declining expenses associated with line reviews are offset by increased customer experience design resets.
As Robert said we continued to turn up the dial of our transformation.
Even as we focus on optimizing our business model driving profitability and capitalizing our market opportunities within an improving economy we are investing in customer experience and omni channel capabilities to drive future sales growth.
Thank you for your interest in Lowe’s and I will now turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
Sales for the fourth quarter were $11.7 billion which represents a 5.6% increase over last year’s fourth quarter but was approximately $100 million below our expectations as the result of extreme January weather Robert mentioned.
Total transaction count increased by 4.4% and total average ticket increased 1.1% to $63.08.
As discussed last quarter the Orchard Supply smaller format neighborhood hardware stores are located in densely populated markets and offer a product selection focused on paint repair and backyard categories.
As a result Orchard stores have more transactions per square foot but fewer per store and a lower average ticket than a traditional Lowe’s store.
So while Orchard aided total company sales by approximately 100 basis points and added roughly 260 basis points to our transaction growth it negatively impacted average ticket by almost 150 basis points.
The Orchard stores are considered non-comp but will be included in our comp sales calculation after the anniversary of the acquisition in the third quarter of 2014.
Comp sales were 3.9% for the quarter.
As you heard from Greg further momentum from our initiatives and improving execution drove balanced performance in the quarter.
Comp average ticket increased 2.4% and comp transactions increased 1.4%.
Looking at monthly trends comps were 3.3% in November 6.3% in December and 1.4% in January.
For the year total sales were $53.4 billion an increase of 5.7% driven by a comp sales increase of 4.8% the Orchard acquisition and new stores.
For 2013 comp average ticket increased 3.2% and comp transactions increased 1.6%.
Gross margin for the quarter was 34.67% of sales an increase of 40 basis points over last year’s fourth quarter.
Value improvement helped gross margin by approximately 40 basis points in the quarter.
Also sales mix and lower inventory shrink aided gross margin but these items were essentially offset by markdowns necessary to clear seasonal product and our proprietary credit value proposition.
For the year gross margin of 34.59% represents an increase of 29 basis points over fiscal 2012.
SG&amp;A for Q4 was 26.12% of sales which de-leveraged 69 basis points.
The SG&amp;A de-leverage was driven by a variety of factors.
In the quarter we incurred $32 million in expense for asset impairments.
This compares to $8 million for asset impairments and discontinued projects last year resulting in 20 basis points of expense de-leverage for the quarter.
Risk insurance de-leveraged approximately 10 basis points due to favorable adjustments experienced last year that didn’t repeat this year.
Property tax expense de-leveraged approximately 10 basis points due to an increase in property valuations and cycling of favorable adjustment from last year.
The strengthening U.S.
dollar cause losses in market values of forward cash position and forward contracts causing almost 10 basis points of de-leverage.
Also building and site repair reset and proprietary credit expenses each de-leveraged about 5 basis points in the quarter.
For the year SG&amp;A was 24.08% of sales and leveraged 16 basis points versus 2012.
Depreciation expense was $370 million for the quarter which was 3.17% of sales and leveraged 56 basis points.
The leverage was driven by the increase in sales as well as assets becoming fully depreciated.
Earnings before interest and taxes for the quarter were $627 million which represents a 27 basis point increase to 5.38%.
EBIT was about $15 million below our expectations driven by lower sales and the impairment expense.
We are pleased with our efforts to manage expenses to mitigate these two items.
For the year EBIT of 7.77% represents an increase of 72 basis points over 2012.
Interest expense at a $128 million for the quarter de-leveraged 11 basis points as a percentage of sales.
The increase in interest was attributable to the $1.4 billion increase in total debt relative to last year.
Pre-tax earnings for the quarter were 4.28% of sales.
The effective tax rate for Q4 was 38.7% which was consistent with our expectations.
The higher rate this quarter relative to the 36.7% last year was driven by expiring tax provisions which impacted year-over-year earnings growth by approximately $10 million.
For the year the effective tax rate was 37.8% compared to 37.6% for 2012.
Q4 net earnings of $306 million increased 6.3% versus last year.
Earnings per share of $0.29 for the quarter were up 11.5% to last year.
The asset impairment expense resulted in an EPS drag of approximately $0.02 for the quarter.
For fiscal 2013 earnings per share of $2.14 were up 26.6% versus 2012.
Now to a few items on the balance sheet starting with assets.
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the quarter was $391 million.
Inventory at $9.1 billion was up $527 million or 6% over last year.
Approximately 30% of the increase was driven by Orchard Supply and the remainder to support demand.
Inventory turnover is calculated by taking a trailing four quarters’ cost of sales divided by average inventory for the last five quarters was 3.74 times which was flat to last year.
Asset turnover is determined using the trailing four quarter sales divided by average assets for the last five quarters increased 12 basis points to 1.59 times.
Moving on to the liabilities section of the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $386 million in commercial paper outstanding.
Accounts payable at $5 billion was up nearly 8% to last year.
The increase in accounts payable relates to the timing of purchases.
At the end of the quarter lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 2.23 times.
Return on invested capital measured using a trailing four quarters earnings plus tax-adjusted interest divided by average debt and equity for the last five quarters increased 217 basis points for the quarter to 11.5%.
Now looking at the statement of cash flows.
For the year cash flows from operations were $4.1 billion.
Cash used for capital expenditures was $940 million resulting in free cash flow of almost $3.2 billion which was a 24% increase over 2012.
During the quarter we repurchased 19.9 million shares for $958 million through the open market.
Also in the quarter we received approximately 1.6 million shares as part of the final settlement associated with the accelerated share repurchase program executed in Q3.
For the year we repurchased almost 87 million shares for a total of $3.7 billion.
I am pleased to announce that our board has approved an incremental $5 billion share repurchase authorization.
With $1.3 billion remaining on the prior authorization we had total share repurchase authorization of $6.3 billion at year end with no expiration date.
Looking ahead I would like to address several of the items detailed in Lowe’s business outlook.
As Robert noted the economic forecast suggests modestly accelerating growth in home improvement industry in 2014.
We are optimistic about our improving execution but with a recent slowdown in both housing activity and jobs growth we have taken a cautious approach to our 2014 outlook.
For the year we expect total sales increase of approximately 5% driven by a comp sales increase of 4% and the opening of approximately 15 big-box stores in 5 Orchard Supply locations.
We expect to have our highest comp in Q1.
This is an important quarter for home improvement and the easiest compared to last year.
In addition we expect the first half comp to be modestly higher than the second half of the year.
We are anticipating an EBIT increase of approximately 65 basis points.
As we have discussed in the past 20 basis points of EBIT expansion per point of comp above 1% is a good rule of thumb for the year.
However there might be some choppiness quarter-to-quarter.
Let me offer two items that will put some pressure on the flow-through for the first quarter.
In Q1 last year we had a negative comp and reduced bonus accruals.
This year we have planned to accrue the target levels resulting in de-leverage of 20 basis points in Q1 while leveraging roughly 20 basis points for the year.
Also we will experience risk insurance de-leverage in the first quarter as we cycle favorable adjustments from Q1 last year.
This item is expected to de-leverage 20 basis points in the first quarter but only 10 basis points for the year.
We expect EBIT improvement will come from both gross margin expansion and SG&amp;A leverage.
Our initial focus during our transformation was on market growth.
While market growth is still a priority we are also focused on flow-through.
The effective tax rate is expected to be 38.1%.
The higher rate is driven by the expiration of tax provisions at the end of calendar 2013.
The higher rate impacts earnings per share by almost $0.01 per share.
For the year we expect earnings per share of approximately $2.60 which represents an increase of 21.5% over 2013.
Our 2014 outlook includes approximately $35 million of incremental expenses associated with the Affordable Care Act or about $0.02 per share.
We are forecasting cash flows from operations to be approximately $4.1 billion.
Our capital plans for 2014 is approximately $1.2 billion.
This results in estimated free cash flow of $2.9 billion for 2014.
We expect to issue incremental debt during the year as we manage through the 2.25 times lease adjusted debt to EBITDA target.
Our guidance assumes approximately $3.4 billion in share repurchases for 2014 spread evenly across the four quarters.
Regina we are now ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from the line of Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Hi thanks.
I wanted to ask strategically on the store expansion the 15 big boxes where are they going and also why add Orchard Supply stores what do you see there and how you are thinking of using them? Greg this is Robert.
On the Orchard Supply stores I think we got about five of them we are planning for this year.
There is a lot of focus on remodeling the existing 72 stores that we purchased.
As you know those stores have not had a lot of investment put in them number of years and we are seeing a nice lift in the remodeled stores.
So that’s a big focus.
And I think at about 10 remodels or so that they will be able to accomplish this year.
So we are continuing to be – any new stores for Orchard are really focused on dense urban metro areas that would have some clear air from a big box so that you can really focus on being a community store and go to market with the key categories that they focus on.
Beyond that on the other 15 stores we have got about 6 in the U.S.
4 in Canada and about 5 down in Mexico.
Okay great.
And then on SG&amp;A I think Bob you mentioned that proprietary credit only hurt SG&amp;A by 5 bps did your credit penetration decline or what was behind that in terms of the outlook? Any color you could give on that the test of additional labor you did last year whether you expect to do more of that or how the traction is on that? Sure Greg.
I will take the credit question and let Rick speak to you about plans for labor productivity in 2014.
So credit penetration in fourth quarter was 26.5% which is 160 basis point increase relative to the comparable quarter last year.
As we think about the credit de-leverage there is really – we had some favorable developments in loan loss reserves in fourth quarter last year.
We had a little bit less favorable performance this year creating some expense pressure which drove the 5 or so basis points of de-leverage from a credit perspective.
Okay Greg this is Rick.
Regarding the labor investment we made a decision at the end of Q3 to move the test into a permanent part of our staffing model and completed that session this past year.
We were very pleased with what we saw as our employees learned more about the store we are able to get them into departments and get them trained.
We saw greater productivity from that which ultimately led to an improvement in close rate of 80 basis points in Q3 and Q4.
So we were very pleased with the results and we do not foresee any incremental investment required or any additional test necessary.
We are very comfortable with the investment we made and we will continue to drive greater leverage and productivity through 2014 with it.
That’s great.
Good luck guys.
Thanks Greg.
Your next question will come from the line of Laura Champine with Canaccord.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Your close rate performance was impressive how do you measure that? Laura so a couple of different ways so of late we have been using satellite imagery.
So we take pictures of parking lots throughout the course of the year.
We max that up with actual transaction counts in stores.
Of late we have been actually using some technology that involves traffic counters in the stores which gives us close rate by day by hour which is going to further allow Rick and the team to optimize labor going forward.
We have tested both methodologies for the same stores and got similar results.
We are pretty comfortable with the methodology.
It allows us to forecast and see actual improvement in close rates.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Michael Lasser with UBS.
Good morning and thanks Rob for taking my question.
I wanted to dig in a little bit on the – some of the investment spending you are going to do this year so last year you underperformed the benchmark of 20 basis points of leverage for every 1% of comp above and beyond that 1% and due in part to some of the investment spending.
So I guess the expectation was there may be a little bit of a catch up this year.
It sounds like you are going to perform in line with your rule of thumb.
When - at what point do you start to see the leverage some of those investments pull back and the flow through really start to hit the P&amp;L or do you have to continually invest in order to maintain that market share? Michael the first part the rule of thumb if you take the 4.8% comp and subtract 1 that gives you 3.8 times 20 which suggests 76 basis points of EBIT expansion.
We had 72 so we modestly missed the target.
Remember we guide off of GAAP and our target is based off of GAAP.
There are some non-operating fluctuations year-over-year but it is what it is.
So I would suggest we are fairly much on our rule of thumb for 2013.
Greg do you want to talk about investments and experiences relative to resets? Sure so as Bob was describing right now Michael we are going forward and cycling down the massive amount of reset activity that we had through value improvement which is obviously going to allow for more flow through.
But we are in the process of testing and piloting some customer experience work within the stores that we think is very important for now for the foreseeable future.
There will be more of a balance of the total spend when you look at the resets remerchandisings associated with customer experience and the decline in the large amount of resets that for the first round of value improvements that we have seen over the last two years.
So it somewhat balances out when you look at all the reset remerchandising spend per store.
Okay and a follow-up question is on the $3.4 billion in share repurchases that you are expecting this year that’s a little bit below what you have done for the last two years so what’s influencing that part of the outlook? Thanks.
Yes so we have talked about a little cautious outlook coming into 2014.
So as a result our comp outlook of 4% is below what we would have intimated at the Analyst Conference in December 2012 for 2014.
If you think about 2013 our initial comp outlook was 3.5%.
We delivered 4.8% that’s roughly $650 million higher versus the expected comp plan.
In addition our EBIT was about $175 million higher than plan which is about a 26% flow through rate.
So if the market opportunity is there we are going to capitalize on the opportunity and we are going to deliver enhanced profitability.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question will come from the line of Brian Nagel with Oppenheimer.
Hi good morning.
Congratulations on a nice quarter.
Thanks Brian.
I wanted to ask a question this will be a quick one just on the weather.
You mentioned the weather a lot of (indiscernible) talked about the weather but is there a simple way we should think about what impact the weather had upon that comp and what the comp would have been had it not – have you not seen the weather.
And then as a follow-up to that what about gross margins was weather a cause for negative gross margin in the quarter? Thanks.
The $100 million that I have referenced is approximately 100 basis points in the comp Brian.
So it would have taken the 3.9 to approximately 4.9.
And then as it relates to gross margin I mentioned mix had a modest positive impact based on the mix of products sold so slight favorable impact on gross margin rate.
Okay.
And then and I don’t know if weather has actually turned in any part of the country yet I am sitting in Nashville and it’s still pretty cold here.
Are there parts where you have seen the weather start to turn and do you have any indication that you are seeing in sales in those markets so far? Yes Brian this is Robert.
Obviously that was an extreme weather and as I mentioned in my comments Bob gave you the impact that we thought it had on the fourth quarter.
But in those parts of the country where we have seen the weather improve or where we haven’t been as impacted by the extreme weather we have been pleased with the comp performance we are delivering so.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thanks Brian.
Your next question will come from the line of Aram Rubinson with Wolfe.
Hi thanks.
Thanks for taking my question.
Two quick things if it’s okay.
One I am still trying to make sure I understand this customer experience.
It sounds great but can you guys walk us through kind of for instance or two to make sure that it kind of clicks in my mind? And then I had a follow-up.
Sure Aram.
It’s Greg I will be happy to.
So when you go back to the question that we talked to – Michael talked to about a minute ago with investment spend some of the programs that we are testing right now have to do with going deep into customer research and see what’s important for customers and make sure that we can start to build an experience that hit the attributes that they are looking for both from all phases of a project all the way from inspiration to planning to getting started to getting supplies all the true enjoyment.
I mentioned to you a couple of years ago that we devoted six research – some research analysts from our research team to the merchants to begin this process a couple of years ago.
So for instance going on right now and we are probably about half way through this reset.
We have looked at the fashion bath area and it was a challenge for customers to try to pull together a bath refresh project.
They don’t go behind the wall in a refresh but they potentially change out faucets vanity tops mirrors lighting a lot of details on the – kind of on this side of the wall of the bathroom.
So what they told us that they wanted was they wanted to visualize the results of this project.
They wanted to bring they struggled to bring style and finishes together and look across the entire array of fixtures and accessories.
And they want to understand what this looks like in end use but they also wanted to touch and feel of the projects with the different products.
And they wanted styles that met their taste.
So what we did was we literally created pods these are 8 foot to 16 foot pods to bring these different styles and finishes together in these categories faucets bath hardware bath lighting mirrors wall surfaces and even countertops.
And then in these pods we brought the height down.
So literally all of these projects these products would be within reach of the customer which was an important aspect of the shop for them.
And then with the work we have been doing through the value improvement program and the cluster work that we have been using we are able to localize those assortments.
So when they go into the store that’s in their market those styles and those finishes and even things like a four inch center spread or an eight inch center spread for a faucet will be more relevant to that market than before we entered into this process.
So we are trying to bring all of those elements together that reflect the needs that they told us they really that provided them value and inspired them in a bath refresh project.
So its baby steps in a process that we are engaging in we are piloting we are learning from some of these first few projects but you will see more of it as we move into the latter part of 2014 and certainly in 2015.
Great that was such a helpful response.
So I think I will spare you my second question and pass on the queue.
Thank you.
Thanks Aram.
Thanks Aram.
Your next question will come from the line of Seth Basham with Wedbush.
Good morning.
I wanted to follow-up on that regarding the customer experience design and that was a really helpful response I agree but if you could help us understand a little bit in terms of the cadence of investment and then the expected benefit in 2015? That would be helpful.
I have a follow-up.
These are a rotating series of programs.
In ‘14 you will expect – you should expect that we will do a lot of piloting as we learn what’s working within these different tests.
We will be at trial in probably five or six categories but it will be stretched out through the year.
So we will begin to see the payoff until ‘15 in virtually all of these different projects.
The bath refresh we might see a payoff in this latter part of ‘14 but I would say for the other pilots that we are doing we will see returns begin in ‘15.
And when you think about the returns in some cases it’s going to be – it’s going to come back to us in different ways.
For example if we do an outdoor living reset and we accessorize product with the what we call the anchor product of a project for example accessorized complete patio set.
One of the goals there would be to sell the set with the accessories at full price prior to the end of the season.
That has significant financial implications in that category.
That’s different from the timing and the type of project that you are engaged in if you are doing a bath refresh.
In that case it might be able to create that entire look of product and to be able to offer installation services and whether we would be able to offer the complete project installed for customers.
So there is different financial components that will be part of the outcome and that because that we are trying to build these experiences around the attributes that customers are saying these are gaps – these are gaps or pain points in my current experience.
So as I said earlier that as we approach these customer experience design we have to make sure that we have the capabilities to offer these attributes to customers and meet them and we also need to make sure that these produce the financial results that are sustainable.
So we look – we start with the customer we look at the potential to recreate that experience.
We look at the attributes that we are going to offer make sure they fit our capabilities and make sure we have clear understanding of the financial outcome.
And it can be very different based on the occasions that we are trying to serve the customers through experience design.
Just to tie back to Greg’s comments and part of your question and remember because he talked about the amount of investment we are making on in-store resets as we are rolling off all of the line review value improvement resets but he said the amount of reset activity would be fairly similar year-to-year last year to this year because we are now – because some of the customer experience resets that Greg talked about that we will be investing in.
That’s really helpful.
And just a follow-up I mean these investments play right into the increase we are seeing in big ticket comps relative to small ticket comps can you give us those metrics for the fourth quarter and else how you expect them to play out during ‘14 and ‘15? So in the fourth quarter the tickets above 500 were 8.9% comps tickets below 50 were 1.2% and the middle was – the 50 to 500 was 2.2%.
As we think about the four comps in 2014 about two-thirds of that will be driven by ticket one-thirds by increasing transactions.
So we do expect to see continued performance in the above 500 category.
Great thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Thank you.
Just to dig in on your last answer on the 8.9% on the growth in 500 tickets within the categories were there any ones that stood out there to help drive that number? The biggest one in the fourth quarter was outdoor power equipment.
We also had strength which is snow throwers and then appliances and fashion fixtures those were the three categories that propelled the big ticket growth in the fourth quarter.
And Keith also flooring was a strong category.
This is Greg.
And it always tells you a lot about the weather when your top selling sub-category is snow throwers.
We hit historical highs in sales of snow throwers.
I am sure you have in places where you normally don’t have historical highs.
One follow-up question you had mentioned about more installed sales can you elaborate that a little more? Are there certain categories you are going to be pushing more on that or any detail will be helpful? Yes Keith this is Rick.
As we look – think about installed sales we continue to see strength across all of the major drivers of our programs this past year.
As Greg mentioned flooring performed extremely well and we continue to see growth in that category as customers look to update flooring into new styles and new trends.
The other components of that Keith that we have invested in over the past couple of years have been our in-home selling models as we talk about our strategy to be able to meet customers anytime anywhere they like we realized that in-home was a major component of that.
So we now have our project sales exterior specialist in all stores in all markets across the country.
We also have our interior specialist programs which we had significant test for the past couple of years in two regions and some other geographical areas.
We are continuing to roll that out in 2014 and we will grow that into five additional regions in this upcoming year.
Okay thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Kate McShane with Citi Research.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
My question is on gross margins I am just wondering how you are thinking about managing this going forward while you continue to push the gross margin higher and if so will that be reinvested or flowed through? So Kate if you think about our outlook back from the Analyst Conference in December of ‘12 we talked about a third of the EBIT improvement coming from gross margin which is about 90 basis points.
In 2011 and 2012 our gross margin fell roughly 84 basis points.
So really we are just talking about recovering back to 2010 levels.
Once we do that we don’t expect significant margin expansion on annual basis after that it’s more of a maintenance mode.
I think Kate this is Greg.
I would also say that the work we do in sales and operations planning I think tries to create the proper balance between driving transaction driving ticket.
And in doing so we try to drive basket builds.
So the outgoing gross margin is something that is accretive for us.
So it’s a good mix that we have been getting better and better I think over the last 18 months since we have instituted this process of making sure that what we direct customers to through our advertising and through our in-store merchandising it creates the gross margin outcome that we want as we drive the entire basket of attachments and anchor items.
Okay thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Mike Baker with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks.
Two questions.
So since you keep referencing that December 2012 outlook I think of that outlook you talked about 9.7% operating margin even with the 65 basis points that you talked about in 2014 you will be away from that.
Can we still expect 9.7% by 2015 which would imply a pretty big jump in 2015 versus ‘14? So Mike as we think about the rule of thumb of 20 basis points of EBIT expansion for point of comp hopefully we will see strength in 2014 and be able to over-deliver above the sales and EBIT plan in 2014 which would suggest a much lesser increase required in 2015.
So simple math if you take a look at the rule of thumb that would suggest 20 basis points for point of comp above 1 a 5.5 comp in 2014 and 2015 gets you there.
However if there is a more modest comp and there is an opportunity to further focus on expense productivity there might be another way to get there.
So we do have line of sight to drive market growth and enhance profitability was as through line design and building baskets as Greg just described or as Rick talked about further optimizing the labor investment we have already made in our stores we are really focused on that.
Okay thanks.
So that was my longer term question the short-term one so first quarter is guided above 4% is that what you are seeing in February or is it more of a function of March it was – I think last March was down 10% so very easy comparison coming but then again of course April was a tough comparison so where are you I guess relative to that 4% – higher than 4% plan for the first quarter? So we did have a negative comp in the first quarter last year.
The first two weeks of February were tough.
Trends have improved significantly since then and we are very comfortable with our outlook for the first quarter and for the year.
Okay thank you.
Thanks Mike.
Your next question will come from the line of Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey guys.
Can you provide any more color in terms of what you are seeing on the pro or contractor front and frankly I don’t know how granular you can get but what kind of impact do you expect as you start to expand the services and products for the pros as you previously referenced? Okay I will take the first part of that and I will let Greg jump in on the categories and products.
Scot we had been very pleased.
As you know we have been focused on the pro extensively for now for about the past 18 months and looking at how we went to market and the opportunities or guests that we saw that we needed to close to continue to gaining share and be more relevant with the pro.
We have completely redesigned our operating model regarding the pro this past year which really took place in January and how we went to market from a service perspective with the pro.
And Greg referenced that this morning as we talked about our in-store specialists meeting the needs within the local market.
Then we also redefined our account specialists in the market to really go after the larger MRO accounts and contractors within the market to give us the ability to meet them on their job sites or in their place of business.
And then also we established our national accounts team which focuses on those pros who deal with us across many states and many stores and make it much more simple for them to shop with us.
The other components of that that we have really took and really made sure that we continued to evaluate was the value proposition.
As you know the pro receives 5% value product discount on anything on proprietary credit.
That continues to resonate well with the pro as well as our Close Program on very large orders.
And then also the value that our Contractor Pack program provides which is really purchasing bulk quantities within the stores.
So we think we really addressed that with looking at how we went to market from a service standpoint also providing great value everyday to the pro.
And then quite frankly we are extremely excited about the relaunch of LowesForPros which will happen late Q1 early Q2 this year which provides them much greater access to product as well as to purchase history and purchase information.
So Greg I don’t know if you want to talk a little bit about price.
Thanks Rick.
I think Rick really described very well our ability to deliver in a sense the delivery system against expectations for the pro.
And so the key is that I want to talk about is what do we have to deliver what’s the content.
So we spent if you go back in the last two years we spent a significant amount of value improvement process improvements on looking at the categories that are extremely relevant have a high penetration of pro sales whether that’s hardware tools rough plumbing rough electrical power tool accessories handheld power hand tools building materials and we have tried to make sure that from an – and as you know we have also tried to make sure so if we get our cross structure right try to make sure form an inventory standpoint that we have the proper inventory.
We have worked hard.
We have been very avert about what we have been doing with inventory specifically focused on the categories.
Earlier in 2013 we said we need even a greater focus on this.
So we have subdivided merchandising.
When Mike Jones came in one of the first things he did within three months was subdivided the merchandising divisions and put a heavy focus on what we call the building and maintenance categories with a new GMM.
That’s provided the kind of longer term strategy and shorter term tactics that we think we need to meet the needs of the pro and to address all the attributes that’s important for them.
So we have got a very very heavy focus on it right now what’s the proper offering and for this discrete type of pro customer for this segment whether it’s an MRO customer whether it’s an R&amp;R customer and are we meeting those needs.
And we are using research for going back to the basic approach with the experience design.
Even in building and maintenance we are saying okay what are the experience attributes that are important for these sub-segments.
So armed with that we are building longer term strategies to be important for that customer and shorter term tactics that we think can optimize this great category this great business one of the best businesses at Lowe’s and one that we have a long long history.
When Rick and I joined Lowe’s sales to pros were 60% in terms of our sales mix so we both are dedicated to seeing relevance in this category.
Excellent thanks a lot guys.
Regina we got time for one more question.
Our final question will from the line of Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
Hi guys.
A couple of questions here first a week or so ago you guys outlined your spring seasonal hiring plans I think you said like 25 000 associates this year that was down pretty materially from last year just could you give us some color as to what drove the decrease? Sure Peter this is Rick.
As it relates to the announcement from last year keep in mind some of the changes that we implemented last year.
The weekday team that we hired was a component of that announcement last year with the 40 000 hires that we announced last year versus the 25 000 hires this year.
As I said earlier those positions moved from temporary or seasonal into regular or part-time positions throughout the year.
So when you look at that we were able to maintain a much higher base of level of employees this year compared to the previous year which frankly helps us from a training perspective and on boarding perspective and we were able to carry those employees throughout the year versus having to go so heavily into the spring hiring process.
We were able to continue to manage our full-time part-time mix to give us much greater flexibility and help us manage the payroll in a – during Q4 especially in the latter half when the weather really turned bad gave us the ability to use that flexibility to continue leverage payroll but also maintain our existing employee base.
So we were carrying many more employees through the winter and in the addition of the weekday teams also helped us to be able to pull that number down.
Got it that makes sense.
And then just two quick ones for Bob Bob you mentioned that the reset expansion in ’14 will be flat relative with 2013.
Can you remind us – and I apologize if you mentioned this already how much reset expense was incurred in 2013? And then on the depreciation line obviously D&amp;A was down around 10% in the fourth quarter on a year-over-year basis can you help us understand what your outlook for 2014 assumes in terms of D&amp;A on the income statement? Thank you.
Yes so depreciation should be flattish from a dollar perspective 2014 versus 2013 which drives some modest leverage as a percent of sales.
As we think about the reset expenses we haven’t broken out the specific aspect of resets.
We have talked about maintaining our stores giving them the updates that meet whether that’s the physical property or the updates to the product space and customer experience that Greg described.
So that’s kind of embedded in our operating model going forward is based on part of maintenance CapEx if you will.
Okay great thanks guys.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks for your continued interest in Lowe’s.
We look forward to speaking with you again when we report our first quarter 2014 results on Wednesday May 21.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference call.
Thank you all for joining.
And you may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Lowe's Companies first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
This call is being recorded.
(Operator Instructions).
Also supplemental reference slides are available on Lowe's investor relations website within the investor packet.
While management will not be speaking directly to these slides these slides are meant to facilitate your review of the Company's results and to be used as a reference document following the call.
During this call management will be using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The supplemental reference slides include information about these measures and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management’s expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the Company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
Those risks are described in the Company’s earnings release and in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Hosting today’s conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Mr.
Mike Jones Chief Customer Officer; and Mr.
Bob Hull Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the program over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in Lowe’s.
We delivered comparable sales growth of (9/10 of a 1%) [ph] for the quarter driven primarily by an increase in comp average ticket.
While prolonged winter weather exerted pressure on our business our enhanced sales and operations planning process along with our distribution infrastructure allowed us to align resources such as inventories staffing and marketing more effectively bioclimatic zone.
In the south and west where weather was more favorable comps were in the mid single digits.
The northeastern part of the country which was the most impacted by poor weather conditions during the quarter experienced negative comps and some of these regions faced additional headwinds from last year’s Superstorm Sandy recovery activity.
For the quarter seven of our 12 products categories had positive comps; overall indoor products which accounted for roughly 65% of sales had solid performance with positive comps of approximately 2%.
In fact in areas of the country where weather was more cooperative indoor comps were mid-single digits.
However outdoor products declined approximately 1.5% overall.
We continue to see strength in our ProServices business which outperformed the Company average during the quarter and I am pleased to share that our team in Canada delivered double digit comps in local currency for the fourth consecutive quarter.
We remain focused on improving our profitability even while investing in key capabilities to drive sales growth.
For the quarter gross margin expanded 70 basis points driven by a number of factors that Bob will discuss.
Additionally we effectively controlled expenses in the quarter and delivered earnings per share of $0.61 which included unfavorable charges related to long life asset impairments and favorable impact of a lower tax rate for the quarter for a net benefit of $0.03 per share.
Delivering our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders in the quarter we repurchased $850 million of stock and paid $186 million in dividends.
Moving onto the economic landscape for the remainder of 2014.
The backdrop for home improvement industry growth remains positive despite the slow start to spring.
Economic forecast still suggests a moderate improvement in growth for the year.
Growth and key indicators such as employment income and consumer spending have recently begun to improve from weather effective levels earlier in the year.
All the signals from the housing market are mixed with existing home sales declining in recent months.
While home values continue to increase we believe stronger job and income growth and gradually loosening credit conditions indicate that the environment for home improvement spending should remain favorable.
These macroeconomic data points align with our first quarter consumer sentiment survey.
According to the survey home owners increasingly believe that improvements made to their homes will increase their value and consumers’ views around personal finances continue to improve as homeowners report that they are less likely to decrease home improvement spending.
With these factors in mind we believe underlying home improvement industry demand remains intact despite pressures exerted by unfavorable weather in the first quarter in fact performance has already improved in May and continued improvement in the macroeconomic landscape and consumer sentiment together with our strengthening execution strategic priorities and keen focus on productivity and flow through continue to give us confidence in our business outlook for 2014.
Before I turn the call over to Mike I want to highlight a couple of recent organizational changes.
At the end of April Greg Bridgeford retired from Lowe’s after providing 32 years of world-class service to the organization.
Succeeding Greg as Chief Customer Officer is Mike Jones who previously served as Chief Merchandizing Officer.
Mike brings extensive leadership experience expertise in key product categories and a clear focus on the customer.
In his new role Mike will be responsible for creating experiences that better serve customers and differentiate us from our competitors.
He will oversee U.S.
home improvement strategy and customer experience design merchandizing and marketing and communications.
Filling the Chief Merchandizing Officer role is Mike McDermott.
Mike has more than 20 years of experience in leading global product management and merchandizing teams and driving innovation.
Mike McDermott will ensure continued refinement of our improved line review of reset process now that value improvement has been rolled into our base operations.
And he will continue the effort he started as general merchandizing manager of Building and Maintenance to ensure that we have the products and brands per customers’ demand.
Lastly Mike Mabry has been named US Home Improvement Strategy and Experience Design Executive.
He will oversee our efforts to satisfy customers’ needs with a seamless omni-channel offering and to differentiate with better customer experiences than any other home improvement provider.
Both Mike Mabry and Mike McDermott report to Mike Jones.
I look forward to the continuing contribution from our more than 260 000 employees and I’d like to thank them for their dedication to serving customers and for their efforts to continue building on the momentum established in 2013 as we further transform our business model.
Thanks again for your interest and with that let me turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks Robert and good morning everyone.
We executed well during the quarter despite an unexpected prolonged winter in many areas of the country.
While we saw reduced demand for many outdoor products we bolstered performance in our seasonal categories by helping customers dig out from snow and ice as we positioned truckloads of weather relevant products at our regional distribution centers which enabled quick deliveries to our stores in areas hardest hit by winter weather.
We also offered customers a new outdoor living experience that inspired them to buy patio furniture and accessories even when the weather didn’t cooperate in parts of the country.
I’ll share more on this experience in a few minutes.
In rough plumbing and electrical we generated strong sales by providing ample supplies of products customers needed to repair pipes damaged by the severe cold as well as repair the HVAC systems for spring.
Moving to interior projects we drove strong sales in fashioned fixtures we saw particular strength in light bulbs driven by LED and other energy efficient products and in fashioned plumbing products such as bath faucets vanities and toilets.
We are providing compelling new styles in coordinated sets for customers refreshing or remodeling the bathrooms and our in home project specialists are simplifying the process by guiding customers to inspiration design and installation.
We continue to drive solid performance in kitchen appliances where extensive offering of major brands along with service advantages of next day delivery and haul away and in-house facilitation of repairs and maintenance provides a best-in-class customer experience.
We also drove solid performance within tools and hardware particularly in power tools where our line-up of Bosch handheld power tools and accessories performed very well.
We are focused this year on three priorities to drive further top-line growth using our enhanced sales and operations planning process to optimize performance in micro-seasons by-market improving our product and service offering for the pro customer and building customer experience design capabilities.
Through our enhanced sales and operations planning process we have addressed an opportunity to improve seasonal planning including the cadence of inventory allocation staffing associate training and marketing.
This quarter this process helped us drive ticket growth and support traffic against the unfavorable weather backdrop.
The theme for this year’s spring plan was spring is calling.
It didn’t call as early as we initially expected but when it did we were well prepared and where it did we performed well.
We built plans by climatic zones in order to get the most from our investments in inventory staffing and marketing.
For instance we staggered our spring Black Friday campaigns.
The earliest roll-out occurred in the Deep South in March and the last roll-out took place in the north just after beginning of May.
All occurred at appropriate times for each geography when customers planned to clean and prep their outdoor spaces for enjoyment throughout the spring summer and fall.
Our second area of focus is to better capitalize on the pro market which is growing faster than the consumer market so we are enhancing our product and service offering for this important customer.
While pros shop across the entire store the penetration of sales to pro customers is highest within traditional building and maintenance categories including lumber and building materials mill work rough plumbing and electrical and tools and hardware.
So we have grouped these building and maintenance categories together to focus on assuring we have the types of products and brands pros demand.
For example the mix in customer shopping electrical wire is roughly 70% pro and 30% DIY.
We are losing share in this core category particularly with electricians so within last year’s line review we focused on why and what we needed to change.
We identified pro purchase drivers by attaining insights from our vendors and surveying our dedicated pro sales team.
We then validated our initial findings with pro customers.
We found that while we had opportunity to enhance our offering for pros working our residential jobs we had even greater opportunity to enhance our offering for pros working on commercial jobs.
In the end we added to our selection of wire types gauges and colors as well as full rows of wire and cable to supplement the offering of wire sold by the foot along with contractor packed pricing so pros could benefit from buying bulk rolls.
We also launched our new hand tools from South Wire a brand of electricians known in trust.
Of course winning the pros business also requires great service in our omni-channel environment to make doing business with us quick and convenient.
This quarter we will relaunch lowesforpros.com testing it with our pro customers before rolling it out more broadly.
This relaunch will provide a dedicated platform for pro customers to purchase online from Lowe’s in addition to align pros to access contract pricing develop requisition list and view purchase history.
And Lowesforpros will be enabled for convenient mobile access.
Our third area of focus is developing a process to coordinate the elements of great customer experiences.
To do this our dedicated customer experiences line team is working with customers to better understand how they think about specific home improvement projects from planning shopping and buying to using and enjoying.
And based on these insights this team is designing an entire experience from inspiration and product assortment to purchase and fulfillment.
That experience must meet three critical criteria.
It must be desirable to our target customer.
It must be feasible.
In other words it must fit within our organization’s competencies and must be viable something we can deliver in a profitable and sustainable way.
An example of what can be accomplished with this approach is the outdoor living experience we rolled out to the majority of our stores in advance of our key spring selling season.
We started with the research and determined that customers shopping for outdoor living products rely mostly on in-store display for inspiration.
Further while selection price and coordination of patterns and colors our customers top shopping attribute brand does not index as high for this product category.
Customers are looking for inspiration as they seek to create an extension of their home and to use their outdoor space during more of the year.
They want to directly interact with the patio furniture to access its comfort and to envision using it and they want their ability to build a collection over time.
With these attributes in mind we examined our previous outdoor living area and determined that customers cannot navigate easily through aisles filled with product and that coordinating products colors and trends was more difficult when they were not close to one another.
In short we were selling isolated products not helping customers build their outdoor room.
We then used these insights to evolve our outdoor living experience.
And with two-thirds of our stores we removed 15 bays of steel racking to create a showroom fill with about 35% more open space which is made possible by our larger store format.
It helped customers envision their outdoor space were displaying patio sets with coordinating rugs umbrellas and accessories like pillows lanterns and planters along with grills and other outdoor products just as you would expect in your own backyard.
Customers can also customize their sets.
Special orders can be delivered from distribution centers to stores in seven days or less and coordination extends to lowes.com.
Customers can find style at every price point.
In fact this area showcases several sets under $500.
This new experience better positions Lowe's as a destination for outdoor living and should drive sales to more improved close rate and attachment.
In this case because we have determined brand to be a less important shopping attribute for outdoor living products we can leverage our direct sourcing capability to buy these high quality products at a competitive cost which should benefit both sales and gross margin.
We’re pleased with the performance of the outdoor living experience so far.
As the year progresses this space will provide a flexible stage display other seasonal products such as holiday decor.
Even while we are building customer experience design capabilities our merchandising team continues to bring exciting new products to Lowe’s customers.
For instance we just recently introduced stain master pet protect and exclusive in the home center channel.
This carpet is made with a new fiber specifically designed to withstand the toughest pet stains reduce pet odor and lessen the time required to vacuum pet hair.
In February we became the authorized dealer of [indiscernible] whose interior lighting collection has the highest market share with pro customers.
We are also excited about our recent roll-out of Valspar Reserve which will be our most technologically advanced paint formulated with a new coloring system to increase durability scrubbability and adhesion to challenging surfaces and to provide unparalleled hide and coverage.
These are just a few examples of how we continue to work day-in and day-out with our vendors to bring more innovation and value to customers even while we work to better capitalize on the pro market and differentiate through customer experience design.
Thank you for your interest in Lowe’s.
I will now turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Sales for the first quarter were $13.4 billion an increase of 2.4% over last year’s first quarter.
Total transaction count increased 2.9% while average ticket decreased one-half of 1% to $64.68.
As previously discussed the Orchard supply stores have more transactions per square foot but fewer per store and a lower average ticket than a traditional Lowe’s store.
So our Orchard aided total sales by approximately 110 basis points and it added roughly 240 basis points to our total transaction growth it negatively impacted total average ticket growth by approximately 130 basis points.
The Orchard stores are considered non-comp but will be included in our comp sales calculation after the anniversary of the acquisition in the third quarter of 2014.
Comp sales were up nine-tenths of 1% comp average ticket was up eight-tenths of 1% and comp transactions were up one-tenth of 1%.
Looking at monthly trends comps were essentially flat in February 2.5% in March and flat in April.
While the late Easter holiday did not affect comp sales for the quarter it did impact the monthly spread.
We estimate that normalizing for the timing of Easter holiday March and April comps would have been eight-tenths of 1% and 1.9% respectively.
We are encouraged that both ticket and transactions adjusted for the Easter shift improved sequentially each month of the quarter.
This trend has continued into May.
Gross margin for the first quarter was 35.5% of sales a 70 basis point increase over last year’s first quarter.
The increase was driven primarily by value improvement and the mix of products sold.
SG&amp;A for Q1 was 24.76% of sales which deleveraged 14 basis points employee insurance deleveraged 18 points primarily due to the Affordable Care Act which drove a 10% increase in enrollment.
We incurred long-lived asset impairment expense of $23 million which resulted in 17 basis points of deleverage.
These items were somewhat offset by proprietary credit which leverage 23 basis point due to continued growth in the program and lower operating costs.
Given the sales shortfall relative to our expectations we are pleased with our efforts to manage the expenses in the quarter.
Depreciation for the quarter was $373 million which was 2.78% of sales and deleveraged 9 basis points compared with last year’s first quarter as a result of the timing of information technology assets placed in service.
For the year we expect depreciation expense to be essentially flat to last year.
Earnings before interest and taxes increased 47 basis points to 7.96% of sales.
Interest expense at $124 billion for the quarter deleveraged 7 basis points to last year as total debt increased approximately $1.1 billion versus last year.
Pretax earnings for the quarter were 7.03% of sales.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 33.8% versus 37.8% for Q1 last year.
The lower tax rate which aided earnings per share by $0.04 for the quarter relates primarily to a settlement of prior year tax matters.
Earnings per share of $0.61 for the quarter represents a 24.5% increase over last year’s $0.49.
The $0.61 per share includes both the $0.04 favorable tax rate impact and the negative $0.01 impairment impact.
Now to a few items on the balance sheet starting with assets.
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the quarter were $658 million.
Our first quarter inventory balance of $10.5 billion increased $241 million or 2.3% over Q1 last year the majority of the increase was driven by the addition of the Orchard supply stores.
Inventory turnover was 3.61 an increase of 4 basis points over Q1 2013.
Asset turnover increased 14 basis points to 1.59 times.
Moving onto liability section of the balance sheet accounts payable of $7.1 billion represents a slight increase over Q1 last year.
The increase in accounts payable is lower than the 2.3% increase in inventory due to the timing of purchases in the quarter versus last year.
At the end of the quarter lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 2.14 times.
Return on invested capital increased 249 basis points for the quarter to 12.02%.
Now looking at the statement of cash flows.
Cash flow from operations was $2 billion.
Capital expenditures were 194 million resulting in free cash flow of $1.8 billion.
In the quarter we repurchased 17.9 million shares or 850 million in the open market we have approximately 5.4 billion remaining under share repurchase authorization.
The remaining 60 million of the $910 million shown on the statement of cash flows as repurchase of common stock relates to shares repurchased from employees that satisfy statutory tax withholding liabilities as well as the timing of share repurchase settlement across quarters.
Looking ahead here’s our business outlook.
We believe that we’ll recover the majority of the Q1 sales shortfall.
As a result we have not adjusted our outlook for the year.
Our sales outlook for the year we expect the total sales increase of approximately 5% driven by a comp sales increase of 4% and the opening of approximately 10 big-box stores and five Orchard Supply locations.
We’re anticipating an EBIT increase of approximately 65 basis points and expect the improvement will come from both gross margin expansion and SG&amp;A leverage.
After reflecting the favorable tax settlement from this quarter the effective tax rate is expected to be 37.2% for the year.
Given the lower tax rate and Q1 impairment expense we expect earnings per share of approximately $2.63 for the year versus our prior outlook of $2.60 which represents an increase of 22.9% over 2013.
We’re forecasting cash flows from operations of approximately $4.1 billion; our capital plan for 2014 is approximately $1.2 billion.
This results an estimated free cash flow of 2.9 billion for the year.
We expect to issue incremental debt during the year as we managed to the 2.25 lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR target.
Our guidance assumes approximately $3.4 billion in share repurchases for 2014 spread roughly evenly across the four quarters.
Carmen we’re now ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question will come from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
My first question relates to sales and my second question a follow up if you will relates to SG&amp;A.
Would it be possible for you either to quantify the sales that you think you lost to the weather in Q1? Or talk about the first half versus second half sales relationship that you’d expect for 2014? So Matt we think the weather impacted our Q1 sales by approximately 150 basis points about 35% of our sales are outdoor or mix related so I had a pretty good impact on Q1.
As we said in our prepared comments we do expect to recover the majority of that in the second quarter.
And as we think about the base that you had added that to -- should we think about the run rate that you have in a non-weather impacted markets and then add 1.5 to that or is that too simplistic of a calculation? Probably too simplistic since we’ve got tougher Q2 compares as we indicated our (maze) [ph] off to a good start we’re running at about mid-single digit comp driven by good balance of (taking traffics) [ph] we feel good about the start to Q2 and our ability to recover loss sales from Q1.
Great.
And then on expenses I just want to refer back to some of the color that I think you gave us after Q4 about a couple of expense items that you didn’t reference.
I think you had originally expected bonus from retirement to deleverage for you a bit you had also called out a property tax I am sorry store payroll item in terms of significant leverage.
Can you talk about what impact bonus accruals had on SG&amp;A and if it’s possible to quantify the labor leverage it would be very helpful.
So Matt I think a couple of items we talked about were risk insurance would be unfavorable because of an unfavorable -- excuse me to a favorable adjustment we had in Q1 ’13.
We actually experienced a favorable adjustment this quarter as well but that was somewhat offset by the impairment higher utility and some removable costs associated with the weather.
We did think that bonus was going to leverage -- excuse me de-leverage in the quarter it actually provided some leverage.
If you think about our experience in first quarter we missed our sales and earnings plan our bonus plans are predicated on operating profitability so the tax pick up had no impact on the bonus accruals we did leverage bonuses of 9 basis points in the quarter.
And your next question is from the line of David Strasser with Janney Capital Markets.
Two questions first of all on the balance sheet you had an impairment charge that you intent to take unusually in Q4.
You took it in Q1 of this year.
Can you just give a little background on what -- where the impairment came from? And sort of why the timing of it? Sure so we’ve got a process to evaluate the profitability and liability of store locations.
That process occurs throughout the course of the year there is a footnote in our 10-K that explains a process in some detail as we take a look at cash flows for the rolling 12 months to evaluate.
There is no magic about what quarter that trigger occurs and when impairment occurs it does relate to two operating locations that did give rise to the $23 million charge in Q1.
Back in February you had -- Bob you had made a comment that Q1 would be the best comp of the year.
obviously the weather kind of impacted that.
As you kind of -- and I am asking Matt’s question a little bit differently but as you kind of look at for the first half of the year how substantial of a recovery do you need to sustain in Q2 to kind of hit your first half estimate -- to hit your first half sales estimates? I mean can you see a deceleration as that tough comp continues and the tough comparison from last year continues through Q2 and still get to your first half plan or is that kind of mid-single that you talked about a kind of number that you sort of need to hit? Yes so on the Q4 call we talked about Q1 being our -- coming to the year we thought that Q1 would be our best performing comp Q2 would be our lowest performing comp really based on compares relatively to 2013.
Obviously weather is going to push some sales from Q1 to Q2.
Q2 looks like it’s going to be our highest comp in quarter at this point in time even with [indiscernible] but having said that the band between comp for Q2 3 and 4 is fairly narrow.
Your next question is from the line of Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I was curious your quarter ends on Sunday and Home Depot’s quarter ends on Friday so we’re out on the stores that weekend and it was a pretty nice weekend in the East Coast so do you think that was some of the delta in the comp performance because you probably had a really not a great first week in the February weather wise and then you had -- you missed what looked like on the East Coast the Northeast a pretty nice weekend weather wise in the beginning of May? Yes Chris this is Robert.
Actually what you said was that we end of Friday and they end on Sunday [indiscernible] what you meant that you -- like you say you stated it backwards but yes certainly as you think about the extent of the conversation that we’ve had so far today weather was very difficult in the quarter certainly pretty wide spread we’ve actually looked at to numbers and said if we had adjusted and we looked at just the days that would have picked up that last weekend and dropped up the first weekend of the quarter it would have made a difference on our first quarter comps of about 50 basis points favorable.
Okay that for the base lines.
And then two (exchange) [ph] questions one I might have asked it but did you say anything about any negative impact in gross margin from proprietary credit and then also on D&amp;A when you say flat year-over-year is that -- I assume that’s a dollar number? So there was no negative impact no significant impact to gross margin from the proprietary credit program and the 5% off [indiscernible].
As relates to depreciation we do expect dollars to be essentially flat to last year therefore driving some leverage that contributes to the EBIT increase of 65 basis points for the year.
Your next question is from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my question.
Just a couple of quick ones pro sales penetration in the quarter where was it as a percentage of sales and where do you think it will wind up for the year with your new programs? Bud this is Rick.
We’ve looked at pros now approximately 30% of our total mix of business and we continue to work on that daily the thing that we’ve really looked at pro we looked at Q1 it was roughly three times our comp number for the company and I think we’re giving some credit for the continued progress of the initiative when you look at the pros they’re reacting very strongly to our structure that we implemented last year of the in-store specialist to really manage and handle the customers when they come inside the stores our market account specialist which manages the larger accounts within the marketplace and then our national accounts program which manages those accounts that do business across many stores across the country that process and that program is working extremely well.
Keep in mind the investments that we’ve made in the inventory as well as the proprietary credit discounts that we offer them to give them additional incentives as well as our normal contractor pack processing which Mike spoke about earlier as well as our other programs there to help continue to provide great value for them.
We see the re-launch of Lowe’s for pros to be a significant opportunity to continue to drive share and increase penetration with that customer.
As Mike said we'll begin to test that with some customers in Q2 with the expected pro launch to be in Q3 from that program as well.
So we feel very good about where we are from a pro standpoint currently.
We believe they reacted very well to our initiatives and our programs that were put in place over the last 18 months and we continue to see that to progress into this quarter.
And Mike I’ll turn it over to you let you talk about some of the initiatives from a merchandizing standpoint we’re working on from a brand and assortment standpoint.
Absolutely we continue to make good progress on being more relative with pros.
Inventory depth is certainly critical.
Localization continued to make progress on as well as on brand.
Continue to work through our brand portfolio to ensure that we have the right brand step that pros need so we feel very good that our holistic approach of separating out those divisions that lean very heavy towards categories that have a heavy penetration (approach) [ph].
I spoke about earlier lumber and building material tools hardware rough electric rough plumbing mill work that putting them together under a single leader has helped us put more focus there and the team continues to make progress on those savings that are critical for pros.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Binder with Jefferies.
So I had a couple of questions.
First was on labor training and kind of where you are with labor and back and training.
I think last fall you had thought you needed to maybe add some more training hours so maybe an update on that? And then on gross margin as you know your main competitor has essentially put a cap on where they want to see gross margin go for competitive reasons and I’m curious what your point of view is on that as it pertains to Lowe’s and where you think your gross margin should be? Dan this is Rick.
I'll take the first part of that question then turn it over to Mike to answer the question around margin.
From a labor perspective we feel very good about where we were and what the operations teams with Dennis Knowles was able to accomplish in the quarter as we continue to look at payroll to provide positive leverage during the quarter during a very difficult environment from weather perspective was an outstanding job on their part.
And we feel comfortable that the labor that we added back in gross stores last year as part of our weekday teams helped us fill that void that we had during the peak selling times of the weekdays and we think there is no need to continue to add any incremental labor back into that environment.
So currently what we’re looking at of course is as sales improve we continue to add labor to match sales rate.
That’s where staffing programs and plans work.
And our part-time mix gives us the flexibility to flex up and flex down to meet sales trends throughout the quarter and that’s what really helped us continue to provide solid leverage during Q1.
As it relates to training we spoke about training in Q3 from a perspective of making sure that our investment of those weekday team members was as solid as we can get it and we realized there were some training gaps there and then we made some adjustments to the program to help solve that issue by placing them into specific departments versus allowing them to work in multiple departments therefore able to provide them much better training to assist the customers in those departments.
We feel good about that.
The other aspect that we talk about as we continue to migrate to become an omni-channel retailer is to continue to develop the skill sets of our employees in the stores and we vested a substantial amount of training time last year making sure that they were able to address our customers when they came into the stores looking at the type of trips they were into shop whether that be the customers in on a specific mission trip whether it was a project trip or whether they were into stores seeking inspiration.
We did a substantial training with every associate on being able to recognize those and being able to adapt to the customer what they wanted to focus on.
So we continue to work on training.
It continues to be a significant focus as we move into the 2014 but we feel very good about our programs from last year the investments we made and the results they provided.
So Mike I’ll turn it over to you to answer the question on margin.
Sure absolutely.
Our 2014 outlook talks to approaching 35% but we don’t think there is a hard cap on gross margin.
Let me talk about value improvement because that’s the process that we usually manage how we do our live reviews which is a huge contributor to both the gross margin.
We have a very balanced approach with our vendor partners.
We always look at growth to both us and our partners.
Innovation is central in those discussions.
We get value for customers.
We see these engagement opportunities as an opportunity to build partnership and of course cost is always a part of that discussion.
But when you think about gross margins you always got to think about line design as it impacts mix and you got to think about the ability to find efficiencies with both us and our vendor partners so that we can drive our cost.
So we think all this comes together to allows us to go after improve margining and its working and it’s working very well along all those fronts.
So I don’t know that is a hard cap.
We are continuing to drive mix look for efficiencies and while improving our partnerships and going after innovation and we’re doing it in an environment and in a way that’s allowing us to expand margin.
Dan this is Rick.
Just to expand on one other key points and that's related to our sales and operation planning process.
One of the things that we identified as we continue to look over the last couple of years was our ability to attach and how do we really continue to drive that through our employees and how we merchandize our stores and get our stores prepared for events.
And our sales and operational planning process helps us really understand the attachment to go along with the core item which ultimately helps us improve the basket therefore helping us to improve the overall margin mix within the basket as well.
Dan this is Robert just to sum it up as we go to market we will continue to be priced competitively as Rick spoke of it’s helping mix the margin with attachment and the right items there as Mike said we’ve done a lot of work the past couple of years going through our value improvement line review process if you recall.
During that period of time there was some disruption where we had excess product that we had to clear and mark down and we started to cycle through the majority of that now.
So a little bit cleaner numbers coming forward.
But just so -- underpinning for all that is we will continue to be competitive on price of the marketplace across all channels that we compete in.
Your next question is from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
You touched on a couple of regions I think you mentioned the Southwest and Northeast.
I was just wondering how many regions do you have and can you maybe just talk across all of them sort of what you saw relative to the company wide comp in the quarter?  Yes Dennis this is Rick we have three operating divisions and that’s what you heard us speak about when we talked about the southern markets the west and the northeast.
Within those we have 14 regions encompassing a mix of each of those.
What we saw was as Bob Hull added in his comments where we had solid weather a good weather more normalized we saw a solid mid-single digit comps around each of those geo zones as we refer to them east south and south being particularly strong.
The central parts of the country performed well particularly as we got into the latter half of the quarter.
The north and the upper north was where we saw a greater amount of weather impact and where we saw the negative comps from an overall sales environment as a result.
So we feel very good in those markets for the quarter from the south southern and central areas the north and the upper north is what put pressure on the overall performance.
So at the highest level the south and west was at mid-single and the northeast was down at the three divisions.
Correct.
And Dennis basically as we look we look in the south and the west every region and those had positive comps when you get up to the north the division every region within that had negative comps.
So it really does kind of accentuate the condition that we saw during the quarter.
Okay great.
And then second question just on margins I think you highlighted the value improvement as well as mix on gross margin in the quarter.
Can you separate those two and just maybe talk to on the outlook how those two things would trend particularly here in second quarter? So of the 70 basis points improvement value improvement was 45 basis points and mix was 20.
As we cycle last year’s value improvement activity we expect that benefit to diminish as the year progresses.
The mix impact was primarily a result of selling less seasonal goods.
In the first quarter we expect that to flip in the second quarter as we recover lost sales it should be a slight drag in Q2 and then revert back to being flattish or neutral in the second half of the year.
Your next question is from the line of Kate McShane with Citi Research.
Just wanted to know if we could have a little bit more detail on any changes we can expect from the changes in the merchandising team.
Could we see further refinement to your merchandising strategy and how disruptive could this be? And then just with regards to some of the refinement strategy you continue to make at the store was there anything during the quarter that you could highlight that was particularly beneficial?  Sure absolutely this is Mike Jones.
We don’t anticipate any rapid changes in our merchandising strategy our initiatives are very well vetted we believe they will continue to create value for us.
We love the enhanced partnerships that we have with our vendor partners; we’re extremely close to our vendor partners.
Our team has a very strong bench and all of our leadership was united and our development of our functional plans.
So there is no anticipated change at all and we’re confident that the changes that we’ve made with some of these promotions of some of our talent that’s on our bench will be -- what we see by our vendor partnerships.
So very comfortable there.
I spoke of the outdoor living set as one of the combined efforts between our merchandising team and our customer experience design team which in particular in areas that had pretty good weather did extremely well so excited about that.
As you look at the divisions that performed above the company average you’ll notice that our fashion fixtures is one of them and if you walk our stores you’ll see a much more enhanced display of the way we do our assets which is another example of how our merchandising team is working with their vendor partners to have the right products as well as the influence of our customer experience design team as well.
So we're very excited about our merchandizing initiatives we’re very excited about our partnerships and would anticipate any amount of changes.
And then Kate you also had a question about was it any store refinements I’m sorry I didn’t really catch what the intent of your question was?   Just as you continue to refine some of your merchandizing strategies were there any wins during the quarter that maybe were surprising to the upside or that was better than expected.
Yes The two I would note would be the success that we had with our fashion fixtures as well as our seasonal set that I spoke of.
Your next question is from the line of Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Thanks guys I have a couple of questions.
First on the traffic and ticket mix I think at beginning of the year you guys said about two-thirds of a comp will be ticket and one-third traffic.
Given how the first quarter played out do you expect that to change for the full year and as May has recovered how does the traffic and ticket breakdown look like?  So as we think about our seasonal business our lawn and garden in particular is a huge driver of transactions and traffic for us that was weak in the first quarter that is beginning to recover in the second quarter.
So that gave rise to the out of balance performance with almost all the comp being driven by ticket in Q1 as we get that traffic in lawn and garden this is back in Q2 that is more balanced almost 50-50 thus far in the second quarter we think for the year the two-thirds one-third ticket in traffic still holds up.
That’s great helpful and then on dot com you mentioned in several of the answers how it’s an initiative with the pro with the consumer and with some of the labor initiatives you have in the specialist departments.
Could you give us an update on where you are on that in terms of percentage of sales or ship to store or other things you got going on?  Yes overall I’ll start and let others jump in Greg overall our dot com business was up a little more than 25% in the quarter so we’re pleased with what we see there obviously we’re excited about adding Lowe’s for pros and the second quarter really give the pro a dedicated website to be able to to transact on what the additional functionality that Mike spoke of in his comment.
We still continue to see about 50% of what is bought online is actually picked up in store.
So the customers using it -- really it’s really the whole strategy of being there to meet their needs whenever and wherever they choose to engage and then on top of that there’s about another 20% that is delivered from the store up to the consumers’ homes.
If you think about it about 70% of what we sell online is fulfilled through that store channels so it’s -- as I said being there whenever and wherever the customer chooses to engage and we’re happy to ship it to them have it available in store whatever.
And we’re continuing to add functionality continuing to add the necessary products and refine the offering that we have out there so Mike I don’t know if there’s anything else.
No I think this summarizes it well but the -- the one thing I would add is that we do have very strong dot com businesses in some of the seasonal areas and some of the OPE where we tend to index very highly and as we look at the first quarter you can see that some of the divisions that were below the company average have a pretty big footprint on our dot com sales and so that was a little bit of a headwind that we expect to see pick back up as we go into the second quarter but [indiscernible] comfortable with our continued build out of our omni-channel environment.
And your final question will come from the line of Mike Baker with Deutsche Bank.
Thank you hi guys.
Just a quick one to start you said the weather impacted you by 150 basis points.
If we add that back then you would have comped at 2.4 in the first quarter which still would be below your plan your plan was for the first quarter to be the highest comp of the year which means certainly above 4 so what else missed on the comp line in the first quarter.
So we've had -- we are expecting some level of deflation in the quarter it was a little bit higher than we anticipated.
As we think about the aspects of comp impact they’re not precise as Rick and Robert took you through the geography strong performance in West and South really challenged performance in the Northeast so we do feel like we can recover the lost sales we do feel like there’s other activity some of the initiatives that Mike spoke of regarding the experience design Rick and Mike both talked to you about some of the pro initiatives it’s going to gain traction throughout the course of the year so we feel like we’ll recover the lost sales and do have other initiatives that will drive the 4% comp for the year and the good news is we’re seeing evidence of that thus far in May.
Okay.
So to follow up on that how much did deflation hurt and does that get better? And I guess maybe maybe my words instead of yours but you said 150 basis points I guess what we should interpret that as that’s not that precise the weather could have been more or less than that.
Right so we estimate it’s a 150 basis points however the West and South comped roughly positive 4 to Northeast comped roughly negative 5 so that goes it’s a 900 basis points spread.
And what percentage of your stores were in the northern region?  I’m sorry?   What percent of the stores were in the northern region? Is it roughly third?  Roughly 30% of our sales.
Okay.
So we have got a consistent methodology [indiscernible] with weather impact that hasn’t changed but if you take a look at just the division performance you can see that weather could potentially be bigger than that.
The deflation impact was 35 basis points.
We see improvement in comparisons relative to lumber so we see that headwind going away as the year progresses.
Thank.
And as always thanks for your continued interest in Lowe’s we look forward to speaking with you again when we report our second quarter 2014 results on Wednesday August 20 have a great day.
Thank you for participating in today’s Lowe's conference you may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Lowe's Companies second-quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions].
During this call management will be using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The supplemental reference slides include information about these measures and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management's expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the Company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
Those risks are described in the Company's earnings release and in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Hosting today's conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Mr.
Rick Damron Chief Operating Officer; and Mr.
Bob Hull Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in Lowe's.
We delivered solid results for the second quarter.
Comparable sales were 4.4% with an increase in comp transactions of 3.1% and an increase in comp average ticket of 1.3%.
As expected we recovered most of the outdoor product sales missed in the first quarter due to unfavorable weather conditions.
But discretionary interior projects did not perform as well as expected.
Outdoor product sales were strong with a roughly 6.5% comp for the quarter while indoor comps were roughly 3%.
All 14 regions had positive comps for the quarter; likewise all 12 product categories had positive comps.
We saw a particular strength in lawn and garden during the quarter and the outdoor living experience we discussed on our first-quarter earnings call drove success in patio furniture and accessories.
While seasonal categories were strong we also saw strength in millwork paint and tools and hardware which were all above the Company average.
And we saw solid performance in line with the Company average in fashion fixtures flooring and lumber and building materials.
We continue to see strength in our ProServices business which outperformed the Company average during the quarter.
And I am pleased to share that our team in Canada delivered double-digit comps in local currency for the fifth consecutive quarter.
We remain focused on improving our profitability even while investing in key capabilities to drive sales growth.
For the quarter gross margin expanded 20 basis points and we effectively controlled expenses delivering 67 basis points of operating margin expansion and earnings per share of $1.04 an 18.2% increase over last year's second quarter.
Delivering on our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders in the quarter we repurchased $1.1 billion of stock and paid $183 million in dividends.
As we look at the backdrop for the second half of 2014 economic forecasts suggest continued strength in the home improvement market as employment income and consumer spending levels continue to improve.
At the same time signals from the housing market appear mixed as home values have increased moderately while existing home sales in total have declined this year.
However when distressed sales are omitted from the data which we believe is a more appropriate indicator of the long-term health of our industry existing home sales have seen a slight increase through the first half of the year revealing a more positive and sustainable trend.
In light of the positive trajectory of these factors we believe home-improvement spending will continue to progress in tandem with strengthening job and income growth.
This also aligns with recent consumer confidence ratings in our second quarter consumer sentiment survey which revealed that homeowners' views around personal finances and home values continue to improve.
Consumers are indicating stronger intentions to complete a home-improvement project with most of them planning a specific project in the next 3 months.
And while most of these planned projects are still small ticket we are seeing a rise in homeowners planning big-ticket projects.
Plans we have in place to support our continued top-line growth our enhanced sales and operations planning process will help us capture seasonal opportunities in the second half of the year.
We also remain focused on improving our product and service offerings for the pro in order to drive sales for this important customer.
And we will continue to build the customer experience design capabilities that differentiate Lowe's from other home-improvement retailers.
Continued improvement in the macroeconomic landscape together with our strengthening execution strategic priorities and keen focus on productivity and flow through give us confidence in our business outlook for 2014.
Before I close I would like to thank our employees for their hard work in achieving this quarter's solid results and for their continued dedication to serving customers while we further transform our business.
Thanks again for your interest and with that let me turn the call over to Rick.
Thanks Robert and good morning everyone.
As Robert shared with you we generated positive comps across all regions and product categories as we continue to capitalize on an improving macro backdrop through our enhanced sales and operations planning process improved relevance with the pro and develop customer experience design capabilities.
Our lawn and garden category experience the strongest growth among our seasonal categories even over strong growth in the second quarter of last year.
Customers shopped our compelling offering of live goods as they took advantage of improved weather to spruce up their yards.
Likewise we grow growth in outdoor power equipment to over double-digit growth in the second quarter of last year with great national brands like Husqvarna John Deere and Troy-Bilt supplemented with the launch of our Kobalt line of battery-powered handheld outdoor power equipment.
Within our seasonal living category patio and outdoor fashion products topped their solid first-quarter results generating double-digit positive comps and better-than-anticipated sell-through.
This strong performance offset softness in the window air conditioners in the north which has experienced cooler-than-normal summer.
The strength in patio and outdoor fashion is a testament to the outdoor living experience we rolled out over two-thirds of our stores in advance of the spring selling season.
We removed 15 bays of steel racking to create a showroom feel with about 35% more open space which is made possible by our larger store format.
To help customers envision and create their outdoor space the experience in product purchasing we displayed patio sets with coordinating rugs umbrellas and accessories like pillows lanterns and planters along with grills and other outdoor products just as you would expect in your own backyard.
The outdoor living experience is one example of how a dedicated customer experience design team is working with customers to better understand their purchase drivers and based on these insights is designing an entire experience just from inspiration to purchase and enjoyment.
Other categories showing particular strength in the quarter included millwork paint and tools and hardware.
In addition fashion fixtures flooring and lumber build materials had solid performance in line with the Company average.
Fashion fixtures flooring lumber and build materials and millwork benefited from customers' increasing interest in refreshing both the interior and exterior of their homes and our in-home project specialists are simplifying the process by guiding customers through inspiration design and installation.
While we already have project specialists that focus on the exterior of the home available across all US stores we continue to expand our interior project specialist program.
Customers have responded very positively to these programs and we are pleased with their performance.
The paint category particularly deck stains and exterior paints including newly launched Valspar Reserve performed well as customers took advantage of better weather to refresh the outside of their homes.
We introduced Valspar Reserve exterior and interior paints at the end of the first quarter to appeal to both DIY and pro customers and our sales to both customers have exceeded our expectations.
Within tools and hardware our enhanced sales and operations planning process help us drive strong power tools performance with great holiday values.
And we are improving our attachment of fastening and repair products to sales of lumber and build materials.
As Robert mentioned our pro business continued to perform well.
In fact pro services comps outpaced the Company average for the 12th consecutive quarter increasing customer willingness to complete refresh projects coupled with our strong product offering led to notable pro sales strength.
We will continue to invest in our core product and service offering for pros a segment that is growing faster than the rest of the home-improvement market.
We are working to ensure we have the right products and brands pros demand and the inventory depth required to help pros complete their jobs.
We also strive to provide pros with great service that makes doing business with us as quick and as convenient as possible.
So we continue to reach out to them through multiple channels whether they're in-store where we have dedicated specialist to answer questions and dedicated loaders to help them get back to the job quickly or at the pro's place of business where our account executives help regional maintenance repair and operations customers order and replenish products across multiple stores or through our national account representatives who assist customers doing business with Lowe's across the country or online where we are also committed to providing great service to pros.
During the quarter we began the relaunch of www.lowesforpros.com a dedicated platform for pros to purchase online from Lowe's.
This site will provide pros useful functionality such as tools to develop requisition list and views of their purchase history as well as customized product catalogs.
And the site can be integrated with purchasing systems pros use to manage their business to further streamline their day-to-day operations.
The site is currently being tested with a select group of pro customers and we received positive feedback on the site's flexibility and ease-of-use.
We will expand our test group and continue refining the site with a goal of a broad-based release by yearend.
In addition to our efforts to drive top-line growth we are focused on driving productivity and profitability.
And we have made good progress in the second quarter as we leveraged payroll and inventory.
Just over a year ago we added an average of 150 stores per week to the staffing model for nearly two-thirds of our stores in order to improve close rate by increasing the proportion of selling hours during high traffic weekday times.
This year we are optimizing this investment by better aligning hours with customer traffic.
This allowed us to meet second-quarter customer demand with only a slight increase in payroll hours relative to the second quarter of last year resulting in roughly 10 basis points of payroll expense leverage.
Similarly last year as part of our value improvement initiative we reinvested our inventory to provide greater depth of high velocity items and drive up quantities.
This year we have held inventory per store roughly constant in the second quarter even while increasing comps sales.
We are pleased with the progress we are making this year on productivity and operating profitability and we will continue to look for ways to make further progress.
As we have shared with you previously our enhanced sales and operations planning process has enabled us to improve seasonal planning including the cadence of inventory allocation staffing associate training and marketing.
This year the process helped us stay connected on the inventory and staffing needed to recover sales while ensuring we address key summer holidays including Memorial Day and July 4 and home-improvement occasions such as maintaining lawns and gardens and refreshing patios.
Entering the second half of the year we will use the same process to ensure we are prepared to address a new set of customer needs for the fall such as planting home winterization and exterior maintenance.
Then as winter arrives we will help customers refresh their homes for holiday guests decorate and organize their home after the holidays.
Over the next few months as appropriate by climate zone you will see us repurpose this space used for outdoor living experience to focus on products used for fall cleanup outdoor power equipment such as leaf blowers to clear yards seeding fertilizer and ultimately holiday decor.
Our focus will be on using this space to provide the inspiration guidance products and service that customers need to tackle the projects that are relevant for each micro season.
Thank you for your interest in Lowe's.
And I will now turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
Sales for the second quarter were $16.6 billion an increase of 5.7% driven by comp sales and Orchard Supply Hardware.
Total customer transactions increased 5.6% and total average ticket increased one-tenth of 1% to $65.65.
As previously discussed the Orchard stores have more transactions per foot but fewer per store and a lower average ticket than a traditional Lowe's store.
So while Orchard aided total sales by approximately 100 basis points and added roughly 220 basis points to our total transaction growth it negatively impacted total average ticket growth by approximately 115 basis points.
The Orchard stores are considered non-comp but will be included in our comps sales calculation after the anniversary of the acquisition in Q3 2014.
Comps sales were 4.4% for the quarter.
Looking at monthly trends comps were 4.7% in May 4.6% in June and 3.7% in July.
As a reminder in last year's second quarter July had the highest comp at 11.3%.
For the quarter comp transactions increased 3.1% and the comp average ticket increased 1.3%.
As you have heard discussed we recovered most of the outdoor product sales missed in the first quarter due to unfavorable weather conditions as evidenced by our roughly 6.5% comp in exterior products categories.
However interior categories at approximately 3% comp performed lower than the Company average.
Year-to-date sales of $30 billion were up 4.2% versus the first half of 2013 driven by a 2.8% increase in comp sales the addition of Orchard and new stores.
Gross margin for the second quarter was 34.55% of sales which increased 20 basis points over Q2 last year and is up 62 basis points on a 2-year basis.
The increase was driven primarily by value improvement; year-to-date gross margin of 34.98% of sales an increase of 42 basis points over the first half of 2013.
SG&amp;A for Q2 was 21.33% of sales which leveraged 40 basis points.
Bonus expense leveraged 28 basis points due to lower expected attainment levels relative to last year.
Also in the quarter we experienced leverage in store payroll and advertising largely as a result of the sales increase.
These items were somewhat offset by employee insurance which deleveraged 17 basis points primarily a result of the Affordable Care Act which drove a 10% increase in enrollment.
Year-to-date SG&amp;A was 22.87% of sales which leveraged 17 basis points from the first half of 2013.
Depreciation for the quarter was $375 million which was 2.26% of sales leveraged 7 basis points compared to last year second quarter as a result of the sales growth.
In Q2 earnings before interest and taxes or EBIT increased 67 basis points to 10.96% of sales.
For the first half of 2014 EBIT was 9.62% of sales which was 60 basis points higher than the same period last year.
For the quarter interest expense was $126 million and deleveraged 6 basis points to last year as a percentage of sales.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 38.6% which was higher than last year's 37.5%.
The higher rate which was consistent with our expectations was a result of tax programs that expired at the end of last year.
Net earnings were just over $1 billion for the quarter an increase of 10.4% over Q2 2013.
Earnings per share of $1.04 for the second quarter were up 18.2% to last year.
For the first 6 months of 2014 earnings per share of $1.64 represented a 20.6% increase over the first half of 2013.
Now to a few items on the balance sheet starting with assets.
Our cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of the quarter was just over $1 billion.
Our inventory balance of $9.3 billion increased $209 million or 2% versus Q2 last year.
The majority of the increase was driven by the addition of the Orchard stores.
Inventory turnover was 3.74 up slightly over last year.
Asset turnover increased 10 basis points to 1.63.
Moving on to the liability section of the balance sheet accounts payable of $6.2 billion represented a 9% increase over Q2 of last year caused by the timing of purchases year-over-year.
At the end of the second quarter lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 2.07 times.
Return on invested capital increased 199 basis points for the quarter to 12.61%.
Now looking at the statement of cash flows cash flow from operations was $3.9 billion an increase of $567 million over last year largely due to working capital as well as growth in net earnings.
Capital expenditures were $384 million a 2% increase over last year.
Year-to-date free cash flow of $3.5 billion was 19% higher than the first half of 2013.
In May we entered a $750 million accelerated share repurchase agreement.
At this point we expect to receive approximately 15.9 million shares but the ultimate number of shares will be determined upon the completion of the program in the third quarter.
We also repurchased approximately 8.1 million shares for $380 million through the open market.
In total we repurchased a little more than $1.1 billion in the quarter.
We have approximately $4.3 billion remaining on our share repurchase authorization.
Looking ahead let me share our business outlook.
We expect a total sales increase of approximately 4.5% driven by a comp sales increase of 3.5% and the opening of 10 Home Improvement stores and 5 Orchard locations.
Our sales outlook is modestly lower as a result of our year-to-date performance.
However our improved flowthrough assumptions allowed us to maintain our prior EBIT expectations.
We are anticipating an EBIT increase of approximately 65 basis points and expect that the improvement will come from both gross margin and expense leverage.
The effective tax rate is expected to be 37.2% for the year.
We expect earnings per share of approximately $2.63 for the year which represents an increase of 22.9% over 2013.
We are forecasting cash flow from operations to be approximately $4.1 billion.
Our capital plan for 2014 is approximately $1.2 billion.
This results in an estimated free cash flow of $2.9 billion for the year.
We expect to issue incremental debt during the year as we manage to the 2.25 times lease adjusted debt to EBITDAR target.
Our guidance assumes approximately $3.4 billion in share repurchases for 2014.
Kim we are now ready for questions.
We are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Okay.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research Company.
Good morning.
Good morning Eric.
Curious on your thoughts on market share performance.
Obviously a lot of thing going on in merchandising and leadership changes within that.
I'm curious in how you are seeing the progress there and how you expect that to play out as we move forward?  I'll start and talk about it Eric.
Then we've got Mike Jones in the room and he can jump in as well.
Certainly there has been a lot of changes in the organization.
But I feel really good about the transition.
Greg retired earlier in the year.
Long-tenured employee done a phenomenal job for the organization.
Mike has jumped right in without missing a beat.
I think that Mike and Mike McDermott who is now our Chief Merchant both working hard to try and dissect on a category-by-category basis where we have opportunity where we see particularly with where our stores are located with the way we go to market our ability to try and develop better customer experiences.
And also as we've mentioned several times the strength that we are trying to go after with an opportunity with the pro customer opportunity to get the brands we need obviously depth of inventory the things we've talked about that we've improved in the past.
So we see a significant amount of opportunity as we have said.
Pro continues to lead the overall comp.
We see that continuing in the back half of the year as we continue to work with our sales and ops planning process to dive into some of the categories we are dissecting on a category-by-category basis where some of that opportunity is and we've got plans in place to go after it.
Won't fix it all within the next quarter or 2.
But over the balance of the next few quarters we think we've got a lot of things that will help drive sales.
Mike? Good morning Eric.
Yes.
I’d add to that.
At a high level we feel real good about continuing to drive the top line and drive growth for the Company.
We feel real good about the engagement of our merchandising team.
We love the merchandising tools that have been deployed.
We feel very good about our vendor partnerships.
When we look at market share it is category by category as Robert mentioned.
We do see some choppiness in the way the industry continues to get forecast.
So we watch it very closely and again we look category by category to ensure that we feel comfortable that our plans are delivering growth.
All right.
I guess a follow-up.
When you think about the changes that you are making and I appreciate Robert that it's not the next quarter or 2 but when do you think you do have your best and brightest merchandising strategies in place implemented? When can we start to look for that to really be in place and gaining traction with the customer? I’d say we’ve done a lot of foundational work over the past couple of years with the depth of inventory and the job lot quantities those type of things for the pros.
We kind of threw that whole massive value improvement process which was the original line of [inaudible] where we cleaned up the inventory.
We've got some key things we're working on from a website standpoint to improve the functionality of our website that will be delivered in the next 12 months.
And then things like our outdoor living experience that we rolled out this year.
That's where you are start to really see the organization come together to deliver something different and better in-store than the way we went back to market previously.
And they're continuing to go through and figure out based on working with Mike and his team where the opportunities where we can put our resources to plays that will resonate in the greatest way with the customer.
Obviously for competitive reasons we are not going to talk about what is coming along those lines.
But I think when we look at what we are doing with the pro customer what we are doing on the brand side the fact that we are through the line review process I think over the next – and what we are doing from the website – I think what you're going to see over the next 12 months you will see some pretty significant improvements in our execution above and beyond what we've already been working on.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Eric.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Alan Rifkin with Barclays Capital.
Thank you very much.
So you’ve kept your earnings guidance the same despite taking down revenue slightly both on a comp basis and total for the year.
Bob can you just provide a little bit more clarity as to where on both the gross margin and SG&amp;A line you are anticipating seeing the incremental leverage that you can maintain the earnings guidance?  Sure Alan.
So as we think about the outlook for the year we have maintained it at 65 basis points.
We do expect roughly the same level of gross margin improvement that we previously expected.
We will get a little bit better performance on expense leverage.
As you have heard us talk about in prior years we are really focused on productivity and profitability on a number of fronts.
And that is showing up in 40 basis points of SG&amp;A leverage in Q2 even with 17 basis points of headwind due to the Affordable Care Act.
As we think about the second half we will drive further expense leverage going into the year.
So we feel good about that.
So the change is more on the expense leverage side than the margin side for the second half of the year.
Okay thank you.
And one follow-up if I may.
Is there any discernible difference between the performance of your stores by class of the year with respect to the comp? Are more recently opened stores comping above the corporate average or where do we stand there? Thank you.
So Alan generally speaking we don't see a material difference in comp performance based on year of opening.
What we do see is stores within markets performing roughly similar.
So it's local market economics the local economy and the state of local housing are more impactful to a store's performance versus the year they opened.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Alan.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
Thanks.
A couple of things.
One I'm hoping you can give us a little bit of clarity on the Australia business where you are strategically with that and how that impacts the P&amp;L? Because I am pretty sure there are some losses that are incurred there.
And then the second question is on the distribution side most companies that we talked to have kind of changes going on on the distribution side whether it's for e-commerce or for something else.
You guys have always had a very established and very advanced distribution network but I don't think we have heard a lot about it.
So would you mind giving us an update to see how that is going to stay a competitive advantage for you as your peers make progress there too? Thanks.
It’s Robert.
I'll start on the Australia question and we’ll let Rick and Bob follow-up on the distribution.
On the Australia question we've got 49 Masters stores open as of the end of their fiscal year which was the end of June as you know.
That's 49 stores.
I think they've been open a little less than 3 years.
So getting a great foothold there.
We also bought another business there called Danks that now [trends are] [ph] in the home timber and hardware group that was bought about time we started the joint venture.
And it really does distributors to a lot of the independents in the area there's about 400 or so independent stores they distribute to but they also have 28 company-owned stores.
So we've gotten a good foothold.
I think the initial receptivity of the business has been good.
Obviously as is the case any time you open up a new concept in the market there is the competitive response that normally takes place.
And when you are taking a business from greenfield growing up growing the business making sure that you are being able to staff and grow that business.
So what the joint venture decided to do is they are slowing down slightly the new store growth to allow a little bit more maturity in being more targeted and strategic in where those new stores will go so that we will have a little less cannibalization on existing stores and more in the markets that are underserved.
So they are pulling back to about a 10 to 15 stores per year over the next few years.
Previously it was closer to about 20 stores a year.
So we are still excited about the opportunity there.
There's a lot that we bring to with our global sourcing and private label brand capabilities.
And from a financial standpoint the losses from that obviously it's an equity investment so it runs through the P&amp;L as a separate line item it's not – operations aren't consolidated because we only have one-third of the operations.
And the dollar amounts that are run through it each quarter for that? I don't think we speak for… We haven't spoken directly to that Aram.
You can take what Masters reports so since we are a minority participant we will let our majority partner speak for the business.
But you can take what they report on the Home Improvement business and infer what the impact to us is.
It is a couple cents per share this year.
Okay.
Thank you.
And this is Rick.
I'll give you an update on the distribution teams.
First let me say extremely proud of what both our supply chain and stores were able to accomplish in the movement of goods and making sure that we had products available for the customer during Q2 during our most volatile time of the year from a seasonal standpoint.
The teams did a phenomenal job in making sure that we had products for the customer.
Second I would say Aram as you mentioned we have a world-class distribution center that is it was stood up to supply our brick-and-mortar stores and we have been over the last several years continuing to look for ways to optimize that channel to really be able to deliver our omnichannel experiences.
So a couple of the changes that we have made over the past year one being our ability to offer flexible fulfillment to our customers and through our stores.
Flexible fulfillment allows us the capability to ship from 35 of our – excuse me 54 of our stores as well as all of our distribution hubs and nodes direct to consumer on parcel product that allows us to better leverage that inventory and drive greater flexibility there.
The teams continue to work on driving productivity both in the distribution center itself as well as in trends particularly in cube throughput.
So as we look at Q2 the teams were able to really offset a lot of the incremental costs in fuel with greater productivity and greater cube movement through the distribution center.
We continue to look for ways to optimize what we stock and maintain in our network versus what we used to crossdock and what we flowthrough as a crossdocking channel.
And we feel comfortable that we have optimized that spend in a way that those products flow through the alternate channels.
And then we continue to look for new ways to meet the customers' demand in the future through supply chain strategy improvements.
So we have a lot going on but we feel comfortable with where we are and pleased with the performance we are getting out of the network.
Is that all? No I'm just kidding that sounds great.
Thanks for the help.
Thanks Aram.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Nagel with Oppenheimer and Company.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Brian.
So I wanted to maybe dive a little deeper into the comment you made regarding the discretionary interior projects which were somewhat weighed upon your sales here in Q2.
First of all maybe describe more specifically what that is.
Is it a specific category that caters to interior? Did you see any differences geographically? And do you think it was more a function of the overall environment competitively or something Lowe's did? Yes.
As we said over all we had a lot of interior categories that performed well during the quarter but we did see some weakness in a couple areas.
One of them as you know we give comps for kitchens and appliances area when you dive down within appliances we were going up against an incredibly strong comp last year.
We were high teens comps last year in the second quarter.
So when you look at our performance over 2 years we were still average double-digit comp over that 2-year period.
So that was obviously something that was a little bit of a challenge in the second quarter.
It was a competitive environment out there for major appliances and tough numbers we were going up against.
We also saw air conditioners with the summer as Rick mentioned in his comments not being as warm as what we had expected air conditioners sales were a little weak in July.
And then a couple of parts of flooring were a little weak in the quarter.
So those were some areas that we saw some weakness in from the consumer all of which we are looking at and trying to determine how we get better performance in those in our share of the opportunity as we head into the back half of the year.
So on the flooring specifically the 3 you mentioned is – do you think that's more of a competitive issue or is it more a function of the environment? Hi.
If I can jump in.
Just a couple of things.
Just to put a finer point on the appliance discussion we saw certainly high teens comps in major appliances specifically second quarter of last year.
And if you take a look at our 2-year performance on major appliance we see double digits.
So it's actually performing very well.
That said we have profiled a little more strength in appliances as well as AC certainly and I would add flooring to that as well.
To answer your question on flooring we see very good performance in tile.
We see very good performance in carpet.
We see a little pressure in wood.
And laminate and we think part of it is industry.
We think part of it is is that the competition has caught up with some of the first-to-market innovations that we launched last year.
And our merchandising team continues to look at new first-to-market innovations that we can launch going forward.
Got it.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then maybe just one follow-up.
On the guidance you've modestly lowered the guidance for the year.
Just to be clear the way the press release reads and I think your comments and your prepared remarks set too that's really a function of sales in Q1 and Q2.
Your internal sales plan for Q3 and Q4 remains the same? That is correct Brian.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Thanks good morning.
Also wanted to follow up on the guidance.
So in the first half of the comp just under 3% and then in 2Q you comped 4.4% with the seasonal business up 6.5% and bringing that number out.
So 2 related questions.
What do you think the seasonal recapture was in 2Q and as we try to think about what the underlying comp trend is to give us some light to that? And then what gives you the confidence that you can hit that 4% to 4.5% implied comp in the back half? Thanks.
I’ll start and then – this is Robert.
And then I’ll have Bob jump in with any additional color.
The pickup from Q1 impact was probably about 150 basis points going in to Q2.
But as we did say with Q2 was our strongest comp performance last year particularly strong as we just talked about in major appliances and the performance we had with our team comps for the quarter in major appliances last year.
We also talked about the weakness that hit the second quarter with regard to ACs and that was a little bit of a drag on second quarter particularly in July's performance.
As we look to the back half of the year and we normalize all of that as we look at easier comparisons over the back half of the year as we look at as I said in my comments continued acceleration that we see growth over the back half of the year and employment income growing home price appreciation hanging in.
The FHFA forecast for home price appreciation is pretty much the same this year as it was last year.
And as I mentioned once you normalize for distressed sales a continued slight improvement in the housing turnover rate we see – and everything we are doing that we've been talking about so far on the call we are trying to continue to strengthen our execution.
We look at the macro landscape pull that together.
We think that our back-half forecast is still reasonable from a top line standpoint.
So to the point yes we adjusted for where we are at for the first half of the year but we still feel confident on what we are seeing – or what we think we can deliver on the back half of the year.
So Bob? The only thing I would add is so as Rick mentioned in his comments we have seen great progress with pros for 12 consecutive quarters.
But as you've heard us describe there's still a lot a focus in that area and we expect continued traction and momentum in the second half of the year which gives us confidence in our second-half outlook.
Is there something particularly on the pro a certain initiative perhaps that you can point to or is it just the continued improvement across the store in terms of close rates and more focus gaining traction?  Sure.
This is Mike Jones.
A couple of things.
First if you look at our 3 business areas our building and maintenance business area was above the average so that is very encouraging.
We are continuing to see better traction.
We are seeing improvements in brands and we have returned some brands back to Lowe's heavy coatings would be an example.
We expanded our lineup of Lenox and Irwin.
Certainly our Bosch brand continues to do well DeWalt does very well.
So that feels very encouraging.
The team continues to work that very hard.
Our depth of inventory continues to improve.
And we have made the necessary inventory trade-off decisions so that as we become more relevant with pros you don't see the pressure in the balance sheet.
So we are making those trade-offs so that we can better serve the pros and still protect our operating performance.
And then the last piece I would say is that our pro selling team is doing an excellent job excellent job out engaging our pros and helping us build those relationships we need to continue to grow that business.
Rick spoke about Lowe's for Pros which is our portal designed specifically for pros to help us transact with them help us make doing business with us easy for them and frankly help them drive productivity in their own businesses.
So we are very encouraged by the work that we see with pros and we continue to build on it.
Yes.
Chris this is Rick.
I’d just like to reiterate a point that Mike made.
I think what we are continuing to see and feel comfortable with is the initiatives that we put in place over the past 18 months regarding both the organizational design to enable our stores our field teams as well as our national teams to really meet the needs of the customer and the way that they need service.
And then you look at the value statements that we have made whether it be through inventory or whether it be through our contractor pack programs the merchants are driving or our proprietary value prop initiatives continue to respond very well with the pro.
As a matter of fact when you look at Q2 our pro applications grew 23% over last year so we continue to see the pros respond very well to the initiatives that we've got in place.
As Mike said we continue to work on brands and inventory depth where needed to continue to maximize that opportunity.
But we feel good with where we are and we feel very good with the way the pro is responding to the actions we have taken.
And then just related to that so can you talk about close rates in the store? I know you added the value improvement the resets are done and fully reset and labor hours are now in there.
So can you talk about close rates as well? Thanks very much.
So Chris we have done all of the above to focus on improving close rates.
What we've seen through the first half of the year is roughly 100 basis point improvement in close rates.
So we feel good about progress we are making but we know there's still work ahead of us.
And Chris I’ll just add.
This is again.
And I think as a testament to what we've done there you look at the fact that we were able to leverage our payroll costs during the quarter increasing our sales per hour by 4%.
And even when you look at the first half in totality even with the soft Q1 we were still able to increase the sales per hour work by 3.5% so we feel the initiatives that we have put in place is working.
As Bob said we are seeing roughly 100 basis point of close rate improvement.
And we will continue to refine how we schedule how we staff our stores to make sure that we are meeting our traffic patterns and the needs of the customers as they enter.
Thank you.
Thanks Chris.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matt Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks a lot and good morning to you.
I'd like to try to connect the dots a bit between Robert some comments you made about doing some work on the online piece and talking about your interior projects.
Where do you think you sit in terms of customers researching projects and leading in through online? Are you where you want to be or do you see that as an opportunity for the business? So certainly.
I said from interior products we talked about part of that being the tough comp compare we had for major appliances specifically and highlight a number of interior areas that are doing well.
I think from an overall online standpoint we did make progress with the website.
There's things like delivery scheduling and those type of things that we need to get work on so it makes it a better easier experience for the customer.
But we are seeing a great transaction growth online on the website.
We’re still seeing an overwhelming majority obviously of what is transacted online translating to either pick up in-store or the store delivering.
So the kind of the omnichannel aspect of it is working together really well and certainly with the customers online in many cases they made the buy it online pick it up in-store or they may be – and maybe they want to ensure that that product is available when they get to the store.
And then in many cases they are also shopping in the store and they're getting add-on sales on top of that.
So I think there is still – we know that there's still a significant amount of influence sales coming from what's happening online but the world is changing at a fast pace.
Technology is changing.
We know that we've got to continue to improve our online experience and that's what Mike and his team are working on.
Got it.
And then secondly I'm not sure if you touched on this in your comments you spoke a lot in thinking about your sales outlook about the macro factors and where they are evolving through the second half of the year.
I guess you exited the quarter looking at July as kind of a subdued one-year comp but on a 2-year basis pretty consistent with where you were through the quarter which was pretty good relative to trend.
How is your quarter-to-date experience impacting your sales thinking and is it consistent with the numbers that you have out there? Yes we feel good about our start to August and particularly in light of the fact that when we look at once again it's from a 2-year compare standpoint August last year is our toughest comp comparison we are going up against.
So we feel good about the way we started the quarter in line with what our guidance is for the back half of the year Matt.
Thank you so much guys.
Matt one other point I would make as we think about impact of air conditioners.
It had about a 30 basis point negative impact for the quarter and had about a 60 basis point negative impact for July.
So that is a headwind in July that will not carry towards the back half of the year.
Understood.
Thank you so much.
<br>Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
Inc.</strong>  Hey guys.
Thanks.
Just a quick question.
Bob you spoke about all the progress you are making on the expense front.
How about gross margin just an update here on the long-term view? Do still think that tops out around 35% or do think you can maybe find ways to push it past that? Yes.
We haven't set any arbitrary limit on what gross margin could be.
I think we know we've got some work to do as a result of the value improvement and we are seeing that play out in both in terms of gross margin improvement experienced in 2013 and 2014.
As we have talked about we created the process to bring more formality and rigor to the process.
We have always done line reviews.
We are always going to do line reviews.
So that is not to suggest that wave 2 or wave 3 there is no benefit there.
However we also recognize that there's competitive pressures in the marketplace movement and sales by channel so we do expect to continue to make progress with value improvement.
Our long-term outlook beyond value improvement didn't suggest material increases beyond maybe 5 to 10 basis points per year.
So we haven't set any arbitrary cap and we know there's still work to be done with value improvement and with other areas.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
Thanks that's helpful.
Fair enough.
And then just a clarification the interior project specialist I guess they are not available nationwide now? I guess when do you think you guys could have that capability rolled out nationally? Hey Peter.
This is Rick.
As of this year we originally started this process and this program a couple of years ago.
We had it test in really 3 2.5 reasons this past year completed in Q1 of this year.
We rolled it another 582 stores.
We are looking at our rollout campaign into 2016 we see another 3 to 4 regions possibly being rolled out then.
And then the remainder in 2016.
Inc.</strong>  Okay great.
Thanks very much.
<br>Thanks Pete.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jaime Katz with Morningstar.
Inc.</strong> Good morning thanks for taking my questions.
My first question is on some of the medium-term goals that you have which is EPS next year and EBIT and ROIC goals.
Do you still feel confident that you can achieve them this far into 2014? And then if you are willing to comment on any of the rumors about Brazil that came out last week I would be glad to hear what you say.
Sure Jaime I’ll take the long-term outlook.
So we still stand by the 2015 outlook that we provided at our analyst conference a couple of years ago.
As we have talked about we are making good progress this year specifically improvements in flowthrough on the incremental point of comp to the bottom line.
Other efforts in place to further those efforts.
As you heard the team talk regarding product categories continue to understand opportunities to take share pro-DIY across the merch category.
So we feel good about the outlook we provided for 2015.
Jamie this is Robert.
With regard to the rumors on Brazil obviously we don't comment on specific rumors of a nature like that.
I will now just reiterate what we said in the past.
Our continued focus is on improving our existing operations in the US and other international markets where we are at today.
And in that light we continue in both veins to look at opportunities.
But with regard to commenting on specific rumors no we won't comment on that.
[Operator Instructions].
It sounds like we don't have anyone left in the queue so thanks for your interest in Lowe's.
And we look forward to speaking with you again when we report our third-quarter 2014 results on Wednesday November 19.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Lowe’s Companies Third Quarter 2014 Earnings conference call.
This call is being recorded.
(Operator Instructions) Also supplemental reference slides are available on Lowe’s investor relations website within the investor packet.
While management will not be speaking directly to the slides these slides are meant to facilitate your review of the company’s results and to be used as a reference document following the call.
During this call management will also be using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The supplemental reference slides include information about these measures and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management’s expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
Those risks are described in the company’s earnings release and in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Hosting today’s conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Mr.
Mike Jones Chief Customer Officer and Mr.
Bob Hull Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the program over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in Lowe’s.
I am pleased with our strong performance in the third quarter.
Comparable sales were 5.1% driven by an increase in comp average ticket of 3.4% and an increase in comp transactions of 1.7%.
We saw balanced performance this quarter across our three business areas - building and maintenance home décor and seasonal - as all delivered comps within a tight range.
We had positive comps in all 12 product categories with particular strength in fashion fixtures kitchen and appliances millwork and outdoor power equipment.
Sales across the country were balanced as well with all three divisions - the north south and west - all generating comps in the mid-single digits.
In fact all 14 regions had positive comps.
We saw continued strength in our pro services business which outperformed the company average during the quarter and I’m pleased to share that our team in Canada delivered double-digit comps in local currency for the sixth consecutive quarter.
We remain focused on improving our profitability even while investing in key capabilities to drive sales growth.
For the quarter we drove 81 basis points of operating margin expansion and earnings per share of $0.59 a 25.5% increase over last year’s third quarter.
Delivering on our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders in the quarter we repurchased $900 million of stock and paid $229 million in dividends.
We’re pleased with our performance in the third quarter and continue to be cautiously optimistic about the home improvement landscape.
Disposable personal income and revolving credit usage which are key drivers of discretionary consumer spending appear to be improving above the relatively weak trends experienced during most of the recovery to date and the consumer is also benefiting from lower interest rates and falling fuel prices.
Existing home sales remain on a modest up-trend.
In the latest reading on the broadest measure of home price growth FHFA improved modestly from last quarter suggesting home price appreciation in small to midsized markets continues which bodes well for consumers in Lowe’s footprint.
These positive trends align with recent consumer confidence readings and the results of our third quarter consumer sentiment survey which revealed that homeowners’ views around personal finances and home values continue to improve.
In fact confidence in both local and national housing markets increased to pre-recession highs this quarter.
In addition to the improvement in sentiment homeowners disclose that now more than any time since 2006 they are looking to invest in their homes and while most consumers’ planned projects are still small ticket we are seeing a rise in big ticket projects which is encouraging.
Continued improvement in the macroeconomic landscape together with our strengthening execution strategic priorities and keen focus on productivity and flow-through give us confidence in our business outlook for 2014.
I would like to thank our more than 260 000 employees for their efforts in achieving this quarter’s strong results and for their unwavering commitment to serving customers while we further transform our business model.
We look forward to sharing our long-term vision for the business at our analyst and investor conference on December 11.
Thanks again for your interest and with that let me turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks Rob and good morning everyone.
As Robert shared with you we had a strong quarter with positive comps across all regions and all product categories.
We continued to capitalize on the improving macro backdrop through our enhanced sales and operations planning process improve our relevance with the pro and develop customer experience with buying capabilities.
Our outdoor power equipment category experienced the strongest growth in the quarter with double-digit comps.
A milder summer helped launched a healthy well into the fall and we prepared to meet strong demand for mowers and trimmers with great national brands like Husqvarna John Deere and Troybilt supplemented with the launch of our Cobalt line of battery-powered handheld outdoor power equipment.
In addition concern about another cold wet winter prompted many customers to buy snow throwers and other winter products earlier this year.
We were able to meet that early demand thanks to strong vendor partnerships and a robust distribution network.
We also drove above-average comps in millwork kitchens and appliances and fashion fixtures.
All three categories benefited from customers’ increasing interest in refreshing both the exterior and interior of their homes.
We encouraged them to choose Lowe’s for their project needs through targeted promotions and our investment in project sales specialists.
We have project sales specialists that focus on the exterior of the home available across all U.S.
stores and we’re continuing to expand our interior project sales specialist program as well.
Our project sales specialists are simplifying the process by guiding customers through inspiration design and installation.
Customers have responded positively to these programs and we are pleased with their performance.
Fashion fixtures also benefited from the strong sales of lightbulbs particularly our home-centered exclusive line of Osram Sylvania LED bulbs a brand customers know and trust.
As Robert mentioned our pro business continued to perform well.
In fact our pro comps outpaced the company average for the 13<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter.
The pro continues to grow faster than the rest of the home improvement market and we strive to provide pros with great service that makes doing business with Lowe’s as quick and convenient as possible.
We engage with pros through multiple channels: in-store where we have dedicated specialists to answer questions and dedicated loaders that help pros get back to the job quickly; at the pros’ place of business where account executives help maintenance repair and operation customers order and replenish products regionally; through our national account representatives who assist pros who do business with Lowe’s across the country; and online where we are also committed to providing convenient services to pros.
In fact our beta test of LowesForPros.com is going very well.
This dedicated platform is fully transactional and will also provide pros useful functionality such as the ability to develop requisition lists and the ability to see their purchase history as well as customized product categories.
This site can also be integrated with many purchasing systems that pros use to manage their business further streamlining their day-to-day operation and helping pros work more effectively.
We’ve been expanding our test group and have received positive feedback on the site’s flexibility and ease of use.
We expect a soft launch late in the fourth quarter.
We also continue to work with vendors to add brands that pros know and trust.
I’d like to provide one specific example to convey the opportunity we believe we have with the pro.
In August of this year we introduced the Henry Coating brand of roof repair and driveway sealer products to stores in southern California Nevada and Arizona.
Henry Coatings is a leading and relevant brand among pros on the west coast who use it for both residential and commercial application.
In fact our store employees told us that many pros in these markets request the Henry brand which they prefer for its durability and ease of application.
Since adding the Henry brand we have measured double-digit comp sales of roof repair and driveway sealer products in the markets where this relevant brand was added to our store [indiscernible].
As we improve our service and product offering for the pros it will become increasingly important for us to reconnect with pros who have not recently purchased from Lowe’s and show them what’s changed in our stores and online.
One way we do this is through pro-focused events.
For instance September was Pro Appreciation Month in all of our U.S.
stores.
During the event we offered vendor demonstrations special values on core pro products throughout the store and introductory credit offers.
Pro Appreciation events help us strengthen partnerships by generating new business.
We’ll continue to use events like these as well as targeted marketing to drive awareness as we make further progress in addressing product and service opportunities for the pro.
As we have shared with you previously our enhanced sales and operations planning process has enabled us to improve seasonal planning including the cadence of inventory allocation staffing associate training and marketing.
This quarter this process helped us stay connected and address customer needs for the fall such as planting home winterization and exterior maintenance.
We are now transitioning to a holiday focus as customers refresh their homes for holiday guests decorate and organize their homes after the holiday.
In fact we have repurposed the space used for the outdoor living experience to create a holiday décor experience like no other in home improvement one with inspires customers to decorate raise their awareness of the breadth of our holiday décor and our gift offerings and provide project solutions relevant to the holiday micro seasons.
But it starts even before the customers reach our stores with inspiration through our marketing and online resources including lowes.com creative ideas Vine videos and Pinterest boards.
When customers arrive at our store parking lot inflatables and live Christmas trees set the holiday mood then as they enter the store they are met with our full holiday story.
This space initially created for our outdoor living experience which delivered strong results and is made possible by a larger store format provides an inspirational holiday showroom where customers can see everything from poinsettias and artificial trees to indoor and outdoor decorations and gifts.
Our feature display sets the stage inspiring customers to start dressing up their homes by showcasing coordinated trend-right holiday decorating solutions.
In our cases whether to feature display or the artificial trees the vignettes are clearly tagged to help customers coordinate style and easily find nearby take-with inventory.
We have also consolidated our gift wrap stack-outs as well as our electric stack-outs to make it easier for customers to identify all the products they would need to wrap gifts and hang lights.
There’s more but you get the point - it’s bold and it’s rooted in research which indicates that customers want help coordinating holiday themes.
We are also excited about the exclusive innovations we continue to bring to market many of which would make great holiday gifts.
These include: the Pilot brand InstaBoost jumpstarter powerful enough to jumpstart cars SUVs and pickup trucks yet small enough to fit in your glove compartment even with the attached jumper cables; the new Troybilt Vortex three-state snowblower with its top rating from a leading consumer magazine; and our new Kohler Pure Fresh line of toilet and toilet seats which neutralizes odors while providing a night light slow-close lid and other features.
In addition to our efforts to drive top line growth we are focused on driving productivity and profitability.
During the third quarter our stores did an effective job of managing payroll hours as comp sales accelerated resulting in roughly 50 basis points of payroll expense leverage.
Additionally last year as part of our value improvement initiative we reinvested in inventory to provide greater depth of high velocity items and more job [indiscernible] to pros.
We have held inventory per store roughly constant in the third quarter even while increasing comp sales.
We are pleased with the progress we are making this year on sales productivity and operating profitability and we continue to look for ways to improve even further.
Thank you for your interest in Lowe’s and now I’ll turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Sales for the third quarter were $13.7 billion an increase of 5.6% driven primarily by comp sales.
Total average ticket increased 2.9% to $65.97 and total customer transactions increased 2.6%.
We have anniversaried the Orchard acquisition so these stores are now considered comp.
For the quarter comp sales were 5.1%.
The monthly comps were 3.5% in August 5.2% in September and 6.6% in October.
When compared to last year the monthly two-year stack was relatively consistent across the quarter.
Please refer to Page 7 in the supplemental slides for further details.
For the quarter comp average ticket increased 3.4% and comp transactions increased 1.7%.
Year-to-date sales of $43.7 billion were 4.6% versus the first three quarters of 2013 driven by a 3.5% increase in comp sales the addition of Orchard and new stores.
Gross margin for the quarter was 34.49% to sales which decreased 9 basis points from Q3 last year.
The decreased was driven primarily by targeted promotions and the mix of products sold.
These items were mostly offset by continued benefits from value improvement and better sell-through of seasonal goods as a result of our customer experience design efforts.
Year-to-date gross margin was 34.82% of sales an increase of 25 basis points over last year.
SG&amp;A for Q3 was 23.8% of sales which leveraged 76 basis points so payroll leveraged 48 basis points as we continued to optimize hours against customer traffic.
Bonus expense leveraged 24 basis points due to lower expected attainment levels relative to last year.
Also reset expenses leveraged 13 basis points the result of elevated expenses in Q3 last year.
Year-to-date SG&amp;A was 23.15% of sales which leveraged 37 basis points versus last year.
Depreciation for the quarter was $375 million which is 2.74% of sales and leveraged 14 basis points compared to last year’s third quarter as a result of sales growth.
In Q3 earnings before interest and taxes or EBIT margin increased 81 basis points to 7.95% of sales.
For the first three quarters of 2014 EBIT margin was 9.1% of sales which was 67 basis points higher than the same period last year.
For the quarter interest expense was $134 million and deleveraged one basis point to last year as a percentage of sales.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 38.6% which was higher than last year’s 37.6%.
The higher rate which was consistent with our expectations was a result of tax programs that expired at the end of last year.
Net earnings were $585 million for the quarter an increase of 17.3% over Q3 2013.
Earnings per share of $0.59 for the quarter were up 25.5% to last year.
This is roughly $0.05 higher than our expectations driven by both higher sales and better expense leverage.
For the first nine months of 2014 earnings per share of $2.24 represented a 21.7% increase over the same period last year.
Now to a few items on the balance sheet starting with assets.
Our cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of the quarter was just under $1.6 billion.
Our inventory balance of $9.8 billion increased $169 million or 1.8% versus Q3 last year.
Inventory turnover was up 2 basis points over last year at 3.73 times.
Asset turnover increased 9 basis points to 1.65.
Moving on to the liability section of the balance sheet accounts payable of $6.5 billion represented an 11.8% increase over Q3 last year caused by the timing of purchases year-over-year.
In the third quarter we issued $1.25 billion of unsecured bonds.
The bonds consisted of five 10 and 30-year issuances with a weighted average interest rate of 2.55%.
At the end of the third quarter lease-adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 2.21 times.
Return on invested capital increased 176 basis points for the quarter to 13.02%.
Now looking at the statement of cash flows cash flow from operations was almost $4.7 billion an increase of $825 million over last year largely due to working capital as well as growth in net earnings.
Capital expenditures were $587 million down nearly 4% from last year.
Year-to-date free cash flow of $4.1 billion was 26% higher than last year.
In the quarter we repurchased approximately 17 million shares for $900 million.
Also in the quarter we received 2.3 million shares as part of the final settlement associated with the accelerated share repurchase program executed in Q2.
We have approximately $3.4 billion remaining on our share repurchase authorization.
Looking ahead let me share our business outlook.
We have combined our year-to-date performance with our previous assumptions for the fourth quarter.
We now expect total sales to increase 4.5 to 5% driven by a comp sales increase of 3.5 to 4% and the opening of six home improvement stores and four Orchard locations.
We are anticipating an EBIT margin increase of 70 to 75 basis points and expect that the improvement will come from both gross margin expansion and expense leverage.
The effective tax rate is expected to be 37.2% for the year and we expect earnings per share of approximately $2.68 for the year which represents an increase of 25.2% over 2013.
We are forecasting cash flows from operations to be approximately $4.2 billion.
Our capital forecast for 2014 is approximately $1 billion.
This will result in estimated free cash flow of $3.2 billion for 2014.
Our capital allocation priorities are to: first invest in the business where we believe we can add value; second pay dividends - we are currently targeting a 35% payout ratio; and lastly to repurchase shares.
Our capex forecast for 2014 is less than originally planned; as a result we are increasing our share repurchase assumption by $300 million to $3.7 billion for the year.
Regina we are now ready for questions.
Hi good morning.
My question was related to two things.
First was on ticket - was there any significant inflation or was it primarily just--in any of the categories like lumber or was it primarily just big ticket doing better throughout the ticket growth? So Dan it was primarily big ticket categories doing better in the quarter as Mike talked about strength in OPE with the performance in appliances flooring and door.
As it relates to inflation/deflation we did see inflation in lumber but that was largely offset by deflation in OSB boards and copper so essentially no net inflation impact on the quarter.
Then you noted targeted promotions for a little bit of the weakness in gross margin.
Is there a plan to continue that and what categories do you expect that to be in? Morning.
Yes we do expect to--we think the impact of promotions in the fourth quarter will be pretty much the same as it was in the third quarter largely focused around appliances.
Yes and the target promotions were largely matching competitor offers nothing initiated by Lowe’s in the quarter.
We do expect a similar promotional cadence Q4 relative to Q3 impact probably less than Q3 as a result of the industry largely going to full promotions for the month of November primarily in appliances so roughly 25 basis point impact in Q3 probably a 15 basis point impact in Q4 so less drag in Q4.
And Q3 was appliances as well? Appliances and big tickets.
Great thank you.
Good morning.
Thanks a lot for taking my question.
So the spread between your comp and Home Depot’s U.S.
comp narrowed to its lowest level in four years.
It’s obvious to question about whether you think you benefited from the breach at Home Depot so if you look at the stores that are in close proximity to the Home Depot stores did those store comp better than the others and if they did you obviously deserve credit for capitalizing on some of the disruption.
Mike this is Robert.
I think as we look across the business we really attribute our strong performance to the internal initiatives that we’ve been working on combined with the strengthening macro backdrop.
As I talked about in my comments the FHFA numbers continue to improve which means that you’re seeing improvement in home values in the small midsized markets which I think as I said lines up well with our footprint.
So we’re focused on our strategic priorities and I think if you look at it to your direct question probably 90%-plus of our stores are in close proximity to the competition so we wouldn’t seen anything noticeable by trying to carve that out.
Okay and given the cadence of when all that happened it was hard to discern as well? Correct.
Okay.
My other question is on payroll expenses.
Leveraging 50 basis points that’s a good result.
Do you think that you can maintain that type of performance moving forward or was there something unique in this quarter that won’t let it continue?  So Michael we’ve made investment in weekday teams in 2013 and really worked to optimize those beginning second half of ’13 into 2015.
Last year we actually had some modest payroll deleverage Q3 2013 which drove some outsized leverage Q3 this year.
We’ve got some good tools in place that allow us to continue to optimize payroll.
We do expect further leverage into Q4 and into 2015 but probably not to the same degree we saw in the third quarter.
And Bob just to follow up on that are you seeing a benefit to your conversion as a result or was the traffic really driven by draw? So we have seen improvement in conversion rates.
It’s really everything we’ve been doing for DIYs and pros as it relates to the payroll investment.
I noted the inventory investment last year the line review process that we went through with value improvement to really get rooted in the products that the customer cares about.
We saw roughly 100 basis point improvement in conversion rate in the third quarter.
Okay that’s very helpful and good luck with holiday.
Thanks Michael.
Thank you very much.
Congratulations on a great quarter.
When you look at your business versus 2005 during the last peak period of time how different do you see the store? I guess what I’m trying to look at is when you think about sales on a per-square foot basis how dramatic have newer products been to the overall mix and if you were kind of just looking at it from a mix-to-mix standpoint how much more opportunity do you think there would be in driving those sales on a like-for-like basis? Dave I’ll start.
First of all when we think about comparing the business all the way back to 2005 certainly it’s a dramatically different environment today went from the overall macro environment how strong housing was back then [indiscernible] into this whole omni channel world that we’re in today.
So our real focus is we’ve got a great footprint of stores out there that is the nucleus of where we’re going with our strategy but we’re building on that with obviously improving our own line capabilities capabilities through our contact center for those who want to talk directly with an agent or through in-home where we’ve got project specialists exteriors in all markets and we’re rolling out our PSI program which is capitalizing on a recovering housing market.
So I think all of those things set us up somewhat different from where we were back in 2005.
One of the other things that we’ll talk about as Mike alluded to in his comments is we also think that brands are important particularly with our pro initiative so that is a focal point the team has been working on to ensure that we have the right brands waiting in the store to resonate with the pro customer.
I think that will also help us improve in those metrics as well.
Okay.
When you just look at--I guess just from a dot-com standpoint and you’ve talked about this from an incremental standpoint how much do you think that can ultimately help productivity in the store? I know it’s a big question.
I’m just kind of trying to think of a little bit bigger picture.
I think it will be significant because I think today in today’s world with the [indiscernible] from a technology and a customer expectation standpoint I don’t think you’re going to be relevant if you don’t have a website that one is functional and feasible from the consumers’ standpoint but also well connected to your other channels of business.
That’s why we’re after an omni - it’s not just multiple channel but it’s an omni channel where these work together because that really gets back to being able to be there and meet the customer whenever and wherever they choose to engage in a simple and seamless manner.
That’s what we believe our customers are looking for so even though it may be a small percentage that actually transacts online this is heavily induced by people starting their research online.
Eighty or 90% of people that start on mobile there’s only about 10% of them conclude a transaction there but they are looking for what’s available in store when they’re visiting you.
So if you think about our holiday décor experience I talked to the fact that it starts online with interest starts online at Lowes.com starts online with Vine to drive inspiration and then they come into the store.
Likewise we saw the same thing happen over the spring with our outdoor spring experience.
Yes I think the holiday looks fantastic.
Anyway thank you very much.
It just looks really good in the store right now.
Thanks Dave.
Hey guys.
I know you highlighted strength in the pro and I think Mike mentioned some specific initiatives you guys are doing to drive market share.
Your friends in Atlanta are also focused on this pretty important customer base and also doing well.
I guess my question is do you think there’s a lot less competition out there to serve the pro than what we had maybe a couple years ago due to the downturn which I’m assuming took out a lot of competitive capacity number one? Number two how should we think about your opportunity in this segment going forward? Yes I don’t know that I’d say there’s less competition.
There’s been some consolidation of some of the small local and regional players but I don’t know that I would think about the competitive setting being different.
The example I used was Henry Coating in my address earlier.
Where we have the right brands where we have the right inventory where we have the right localization we see growth so we’re excited about it and we’ll talk more about some of our pro initiatives at the upcoming AIC meeting.
Scot this is Robert.
Kind of dovetailing to our last question when we think about competition yes there may have been consolidation there may be fewer just dedicated pro lumber and building material yards then there were before the downturn but also think about technology and how that’s changed with for example online and the availability now of being able to interact with the DIY or pro customer online.
So that’s why we’re focused on launching our LowesForPros.com because yes it may be different but it’s still a competitive market.
So as you guys can invest more in technology and have those systems and capabilities in theory you should be able to continue to gain market share with that customer base.
Correct and that’s why obviously we’ll continue to have plans to invest funds in those areas.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Good morning.
Robert could you just comment on how much Orchard supply added to your comp this quarter? I’d say it added nothing to comps for the quarter.
If we think about the size of the business technically it was only in the comp base for two months so really with or without Orchard the comp number would not have changed Laura.
Thanks and then can you also comment on what drove the appliance business because we were particularly surprised by the strength that you saw there in the quarter.
A couple of things.
We spoke to being certainly promotional at the same level as our competitors in the appliance business a few minutes ago.
I like our footprint in appliances.
I like the amount of space that we’ve dedicated to the floor for appliances.
We’re proud of the fact that we have large stores and so we can dedicate space to appliances and not have to detract space from other important categories like cabinets that helps a consumer pull the entire project together and I like our brands.
I also like the fact that as we think about building out better experiences we own that appliance experience with our customer all the way through to the last.
We deliver the appliances we facilitate the installation we really do own that experience so we feel good about our position.
We think that the way we’re merchandising our appliances our partnerships with key brands like Bosch Whirlpool GE Electrolux allows us to offer everything the consumers need and it’s an area that we’re pretty well focused on.
Got it thank you.
Good morning and congratulations on a good quarter.
My first question is around some of these big ticket category drivers for the quarter.
Would you care to quantify how much appliances and OPE added to the comp? Don’t have exact quantification as Mike spoke of OPE was in the mid-teens from a comp perspective appliances was above the company average so both were certainly drivers.
Seth if you look at tickets above $900--excuse me above $500 comp was up a little higher than 9% so certainly big ticket was a driver of comp in the quarter led by the categories we spoke about previously.
Got it.
As you roll into Q4 with the continued promotional environment in appliances do you expect to see the same level of comp contribution from that category? I think as we spoke about earlier last year was kind of a Black November from an appliance perspective so while the level of intensity will be more consistent the impact will be muted because we’re comping against efforts from last year therefore I think we will see a more balanced performance.
We do see continued strength although probably not to the degree we saw in Q3 so I would expect a little bit more balanced performance across categories in Q4.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Good morning this is David on for Budd.
Congratulations on a good quarter.
I had a question just about inventory levels and supply chains.
You had your competitors mention seeing--you know being in a good in-stock position going into the holidays but definitely seeing some troubles I guess you could say in their supply chain notably some congestion at the ports and also issues with driver shortages.
Can you comment on if you’re seeing any of that? This is Robert.
I’ll start Dave.
When you think about Black Friday and when you think about the holiday season we think we’re in great shape with the inventory already landed and either in our stores or in our distribution network.
Certainly with what’s going on at the ports on the west coast we’re keeping a close eye on it.
Our team is heavily focused on that and working to develop contingency plans based on how that situation unfolds going forward.
We’ve been through this before and so it may cost more to get the freight in but we’ll do what we need to as we think about looking ahead to spring.
Keep in mind when we think about our network of distribution centers our distribution centers aren’t just for cross-docking.
They also hold inventory so that gives us great flexibility as product is landed to go ahead and bring it in either in our import centers or in our distribution centers to have it available then to push out to our stores.
So we’re in great shape as we head into Black Friday and into the holiday season this year.
Yes there has been a little bit of pressure when you think about higher cost from driver availability and stuff like that but fortunately with lower fuel prices that’s helped to offset some of that cost to what we’ve experienced to date.
Okay great.
Thanks for that color.
One more question just on the modeling going forward.
In terms of the 70 to 75 basis points of operating margin expansion you see can you give us an idea of what the contribution split would be roughly between gross margin and SG&amp;A? Is it going to be similar to what we saw this quarter or a little bit more balanced? I assume you’re talking about Q4? Yes - Q4.
Yes.
So for the year we expect the gross margin to be roughly consistent with where we are to date the three quarters of performance felt the last year.
The lion’s share of the expansion is going to come from expense leverage as you’ve heard us talking about we’re really focused on driving productivity and flow-through so good expense productivity.
We’ll see even more of that in the fourth quarter driving productivity.
We talked about payroll - we’ll leverage bonus expense in the quarter.
We also had some impairment in Q4 last year that we don’t expect to recur this year so we’ll have some healthy expense leverage in the fourth quarter.
Great thanks a lot guys.
Hi thanks.
Just focusing on that margin in the past you’ve talked about a rule of thumb of 20 basis points of margin expansion for every 1% comp above 1%.
Your guidance this year is ahead of that closer to 25 to 30.
So my question is how do we think about that going forward? Is your efficiency and productivity such now that that rule of thumb should go higher? Yes we believe so.
So if we think back to where we’ve been over the past number of years the focus and issue we saw on stabilizing the revenue then shifting gears towards productivity and profitability so we’re in that phase of focusing on productivity and profitability.
We expect 2015 hopefully looks a lot like 2014.
We’re in the throes of developing our plans for 2015.
Like 2014 we hope to grow comps with flattish payroll hours and flat inventory dollars.
We’ll give you more details on 2015 on the Q4 call in February.
So I guess the follow-up question is with that higher rule of thumb and thinking it might occur next year does that give you visibility into that 9.7% operating margin for 2015 that you guys talked about in December 2012? Certainly.
That’s been part of the plan all along.
That’s why we’ve not wavered from the 9.7 is we need to grow both top line and productivity.
We are getting better flow-through now as you suggested Mike in the 25 to 30 basis point range.
We’d like to see that hopefully towards the high end of that range in 2015 but again more to come.
Great thank you.
Very helpful.
Hey guys.
My question is on kind of the pro versus DIY when we think about it from a margin perspective.
Can you talk to kind of the average margin profile of the pro basket versus the average DIY basket how materially does it differ? Peter this is Robert.
I’ll start and let the others add on.
When you think about it as we talk about the pro and the pros that generally we target that shop our stores they are generally buying across the store so you generally are not seeing a significant difference in the basket margin rate on the basket of what they’re buying versus what our typical DIY customer would be purchasing.
Okay and then how about the average spend per year? Have you guys kind of benchmarked that in terms of what you think your pros are spending on average? The average pro spend is probably in the $2 000 range.
As Robert indicated they are buying across the store.
There’s a healthy margin mix and we feel good about the game plan to serve the pros.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Hi good morning.
Congratulations on a great quarter.
A couple questions one long one short.
The long one - a lot of talk from you and others about this pretty significant market share shift we’re seeing in the appliance business.
You’re clearly benefiting from it.
As you look at your customer data and that maybe potentially that new customer now buying an appliance at Lowe’s is that someone that’s new to a Lowe’s store or was an existing customer and now you’ve expanded their share of wallet so to say and then how sticky has that customer been if there’s any way to determine that? Well I think I’ll start Brian and I’ll maybe get Mike Jones to jump in.
Certainly as we continue to improve the way we go to market even improving things like website functionality and the website search and those type of things we’re making sure that when the customer is in the market to buy an appliance we’re top in the consideration.
Still the majority of the appliances or a significant amount of the appliances that we sell are still replacement of an appliance that’s in a distressed situation so being there at the right time but you also know that as the remodeling market is coming back consumers are going to put in a new kitchen.
We also--we’ll put in the kitchen and we’ll sell them the appliances as well.
So as you think about a lot of our target efforts whether that’s our PSI program and those type of things that are really working on better more effective ways with the consumer and improving their home I think all of that helps us to have the right products the right brands making sure that we’re there when the customer needs us.
On an omni channel basis I think it helps and we’ve got all the key brands out there as Mike indicated earlier in his comments.
So I think it just positions us well given that the majority of customers that come in our store every day are homeowners.
When it is time for an appliance they’re familiar with the brand they know Lowe’s and it sets us up well to continue to gain share in the appliance industry.
Yes I’d add a couple things to that.
If you think about our ability to help the consumer pull together their project by deploying our project specialists to their home that’s going to help us expand our relevance with customers that we have and gain some new customers.
In addition to that if you think about the way we’re building out better experiences - selling online going into the store - we think that also helps us both make the customers that we have more sticky as well as start to lean into some new customers.
So we don’t look at it as either-or we look at it as you’ve got to go after both.
Got it.
Okay thanks for all the color there.
The second shorter question and I don’t think you’ve mentioned this yet but any comment on sales trends thus far in Q4 recognizing we’re early in a back-end weighted period? Yes so Brian we’re off to a great start.
In fact we’re very impressed with our results thus far but it’s still very early in the quarter and there is weather risk in January so at this point we’re comfortable with the guidance we provided thus far.
Thank you.
Congrats.
Two questions.
First of all in terms of market share your performance this quarter looks improved from what you’d posted recently.
I know you’ve talked a bit about appliances and outdoor power but from a bigger picture perspective Mike or Robert what do you think is changing and is that sustainable in terms of your market share performance? Eric I’ll start and then I’ll get Mike to jump in.
I think it’s a lot of heavy lifting that we’ve been doing over the past few years past few quarters with the line review process whether it’s the incremental inventory that we put in the stores whether it’s the customer experience work that we’ve been doing to bring better experiences.
It’s improvements that Mike and his team have been working on for the website to make a better experience better connected and then it’s things like we talked about earlier on the call with the weekday teams.
We launched those a couple years ago.
Those people could get more experience as we get their hours adjusted to the right part of the store at the right time to meet the consumers’ needs.
Yes it feels good particularly as we talked about with the environment and home prices improving on a broader scale.
It sets up well for our footprint and then some of the work that the team is doing to really focus more on the opportunity of that pro customer.
Yes it does feel like we’ve got opportunity to continue to gain market share and to be able to deliver better performance.
It’s Mike here and I’d agree.
It’s difficult to measure share.
You’ve got to--you have to use a lot of different data to get to a perspective but we also believe that we’re gaining share at a couple things.
I think our associates are doing a phenomenal job.
They’re energized they’re engaged and they’re meeting the needs of our customers so we’re so appreciative of what they do.
Our outdoor selling teams our pro teams are doing a phenomenal job.
The project specialists continue to do a fantastic job.
But to Robert’s point our initiatives are really starting to get good traction.
We talked about sales and operations planning where we started to plan out the upcoming selling season six months to a year in advance.
That helps make sure that we have the inventory we need so we can meet the customers’ needs.
We talked about better utilization of our larger stores which we believe to be a distinct competitive advantage where we can show products like our innovations on our innovation end caps.
I don’t want to miss our vendor partnerships - so so critical.
We’ve got great vendor partnerships that are bringing us innovations and first-to-markets and working with us to make sure that we have the right brand portfolio to meet both the needs of the pro as well as the need of the do-it-yourself customers.
So a lot of things are going well.
I known that in your shops Eric you’ve heard lots of things from our merchandising team and how engaged they are and they’re doing a phenomenal job as well.
So just a lot of things going well and we’re proud of the teams.
Great that’s helpful.
Secondly in terms of the margin progression and Bob your commentary in sticking with the 9.7 next year I know there was a period of time where it felt like a larger gross margin emphasis in the company.
It feels like there’s now perhaps a recognition of a better opportunity to better lever SG&amp;A.
Just wondering if you can give us a little bit more color on your thought of the slope of margin improvement from here and other than sales progress is there something incremental you’re accomplishing that allows you to lever or improve margin at a better rate than you’ve done in the past? So Eric what I’d say is that we guide to EBIT because there’s pushes and pulls with margin and expenses.
We want to manage the business with flexibility to respond to competitive actions.
We want to have the flexibility to manage our initiatives and put initiatives in place so I’m not sure if the mindset is necessarily different Eric.
We certainly expect to have both gross margin improvement and SG&amp;A leverage.
It just so happens we’re identifying a lot of productivity opportunities that happen to be expense-related at this juncture.
As the merchant teams go through round two and round three of value improvement there are still opportunities to bring value to the consumer as Mike discussed partners with our vendors.
We think there’s additional gross margin opportunities from that going forward so it just so happens at this juncture we’re seeing a little bit more opportunity from expense.
Great thank you.
Thanks a lot.
I’ve got a couple of follow-ups.
First of all can you talk to us if you look through some of the ticket metrics for this quarter which have some one-offs like OPE what is the ticket cadence and sort of the customer traffic in some of the bigger ticket areas telling you about where the customer is in the home investment cycle relative to the past couple of years? Are you seeing a deepening of interest in some of the bigger ticket [indiscernible] oriented areas or are we still talking about more of the repair and maintenance kind of categories driving the business today? I’ll start and I’ll let others jump in.
As I said in my comments as we see the consumer getting engaged in home and home improvement and their thoughts around the home their confidence in both local and national housing market and the value of their homes improving we are seeing them continue to get engaged in taking on discretionary projects.
Today most of those are still in the smaller projects which we label as $500 or less but we did see an uptick versus same quarter last year in a willingness to take on larger projects which we think bodes well going forward as we continue to see home values continue to improve and consumer finances continue to improve.
Okay and then the second level of my question just following up - Bob you addressed a moment ago that the merchants would go back and take a look at other opportunities for value improvement.
What do you think is left? Are there quantifiably more areas of the business that you feel you maybe didn’t optimize in the first round as you look at gross margin opportunity? This is Mike Jones.
First from a value improvement perspective we view this as the way we work so it’s not something that will be done.
We’re going to continue to use that process to continue to work with our vendor partners to create more value for our customers so we’ve gone through round two this year and made great progress.
When we finish round two there will be a round three followed by a round four followed by round five.
So as we continue to look at our business we continue to find opportunities where this is [indiscernible] for us to partner with our vendor partners to take out more cost quite frankly and both our side and from their side and deliver more value to our customers.
So to me this is not a one-and-done.
We’ll be doing this in perpetuity.
I would add just think about 400 line reviews and the average line review had four clusters.
There’s no way we got 1 600 clusters right so there’s an opportunity to go back and refine the approach dig into the demographics the customer data the performance to continue to refine the stats.
Thank you so much.
Regina we’ve got time for one more question.
I had a feeling it was going to be me.
Bob I got your reference - I’m glad you’re impressed with the start to November so just so you know.
One kind of softer question and then one more specific.
You seem like you’re on a good glide path where your comps are now equal to the competition maybe even better in October.
Your DSIs are down your DSPs are up.
Your business seems to be stable.
Can you just tell us about the feeling of the organization and I know that wins sometimes beget more wins so I’m just kind of curious whether or not you’re at that stage of maybe building momentum internally? This is Robert.
Yes you nailed it - momentum is a powerful thing.
I think we see a lot of bounce in people’s steps with a lot of initiatives that we’ve been working on.
There’s been a lot of heavy lifting over the past couple years all the way across the organization both in stores and in corporate offices.
We repositioned the company to more of an omni channel environment made some great strides and great improvements.
It’s starting to come together and you are seeing a lot of bounce in people’s steps and a lot of wanting to deliver even better performance in the future.
Great well we’ll be sure to wear our sneakers to the analyst day.
My other question is just on the pro.
Tool rental is something that we’ve heard is near and dear or at least of interest to pro customers and I think you guys don’t really have that in too many stores.
Can you talk about whether or not that’s something you’re working on or if you just don’t see the merit in it? Thank you.
Aram yes we’ve got it in a handful of locations.
It’s something that we continue to put on a list to evaluate but quite frankly with all the other things that we had to get done over the past couple years we had other things that we thought were higher priority.
So it’s something that’s on the list we’ll continue to evaluate it.
It’s something we may look at doing in a better way in the future but as of today we’ve not made any decisions regarding tool rental.
Okay I look forward to seeing you in a couple weeks.
Thanks.
All right you too Aram.
Thanks.
Thanks again.
As always thanks for your continued interest in Lowe’s.
We look forward to speaking with you again when we report our fourth quarter 2014 results on Wednesday February 25.
Have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning everyone and welcome to Lowe's Companies First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Also supplemental reference slides are available on Lowe's' Investor Relations website within the investor packet.
While management will not be speaking directly to the slides these slides are meant to facilitate your review of the company's results and to be used as a reference document following the call.
During this call management will be using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The supplemental reference slides include information about these measures and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management's expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
Those risks are described in the company's earnings release and in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Hosting today's conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Mr.
Jones Chief Customer Officer; and Mr.
Bob Hull Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the program over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in Lowe’s.
I am pleased that we delivered another strong quarter with comparable sales growth of 5.2%.
Comp growth was driven by a 2.9% increase in comp average ticket and a 2.2% increase in comp transactions.
The team executed our plan and collaborated across the organization to respond to challenges.
We employed a coordinated effort to stagger our Spring Black Friday events with a controlled cadence as Mike will describe further and we were well prepared to meet customers’ needs for the season.
Our ability to adapt to difficult operating conditions was tested by the prolonged labor dispute at West Coast ports and I am pleased with the team’s diligent effort to minimize the impact these challenges created.
I would like to thank our more than 265 000 employees in the field and in our support centers for their hard work and dedication to serving customers.
Comparable sales growth for our US home improvement business was 5.3% for the quarter and while we saw a stronger performance in areas of the country where weather was more favorable specifically in the West and in Florida all 14 regions generated positive comps.
Additionally our team in Canada delivered their 8<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter of double digit comps in local currency and their highest quarterly comp performance since we entered the market in 2007.
We recorded positive comps in all 13 product categories with particular strength in appliances as well as seasonal categories including outdoor power equipment and seasonal living.
We remain focused on improving our profitability even while investing in key capabilities to drive our sales growth.
For the quarter we drove 76 basis points of operating margin expansion despite experiencing some discreet pressures as Bob will detail.
And we delivered earnings-per-share of $0.70 a 15% increase over last year’s first quarter which was in line with our expectations.
Delivering our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders in the quarter we repurchased $1 billion of stock under our share repurchase program and paid $222 million in dividends.
Looking at the balance of the year from an economic perspective.
Key drivers of home improvement industry growth job and income growth home-buying and home price appreciation remain aligned for modestly stronger industry growth.
At the same time lower energy prices should fuel stronger consumer spending in 2015.
We continue to see steady recovery within the housing market including positive trends in turnover and moderate home price appreciation as measured by FHFA the broadest measure of home price growth which is more in line with our store footprint.
We are encouraged by the results of our first quarter consumer sentiment survey where we continue to see homeowners’ views around personal finances and home values improved.
According to the survey homeowners are shifting more of their spending to home improvement.
As a result their intentions to begin a home-improvement project in the next six months were the highest in six years and these planned projects are now almost evenly split between discretionary and non-discretionary.
Our key priorities in 2015 should allow us to capitalize on opportunities with an improving economy.
We're pursuing further topline growth by differentiating ourselves with better customer experiences and improving our product and service offering for the Pro customer.
We also remain committed to improving our productivity and profitability with opportunities in a few specific areas including store payroll marketing and leveraging our scale to get cost savings on in-direct spend.
In addition we continue developing omni-channel capabilities as part of our long-term commitment to meet customers on their terms whenever and wherever they choose to engage with us.
Execution of our strategic priorities alongside an improving macroeconomic backdrop together with a keen focus on productivity and profitability give us confidence in our business outlook for 2015.
Thanks again for your interest and with that let me turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks Robert.
Good morning everyone.
We executed well in the first quarter growing both average ticket and transactions.
We drove traffic to our stores through our Spring Black Friday event aligned to the expected arrival of spring from the deep South to the North.
To ensure our stores are ready to provide inspiration information and products to customers we used our enhanced sales and operations planning process to coordinate inventory flow advertising product displays and training.
And while the situation at the West Coast ports add a complexity to our spring preparation our transportation and logistics teams successfully collaborated to reroute product to other ports.
As a result our in-stock levels remained high.
In fact sales in our seasonal living category which includes our highest concentration of imported products such as patios and grills exceeded our expectations.
We are pleased with our first quarter results notwithstanding some weather driven softness.
Keep in mind that the outdoor selling season extends well past Memorial Day.
To this point in the second quarter sales have exceeded our expectations.
So we remain confident in the full year guidance we provided last quarter.
Looking at category performance we recorded above company average comps in appliances outdoor power equipment and seasonal living.
We achieved double-digit comps in outdoor power equipment as walk-behind and riding mowers drove strong performance in the West and South.
We offer a wide range of mowers to help customers maintain their yards and we continue to provide compelling and exclusive innovations like our home channel exclusive Husqvarna all-wheel-drive mower and a recently launched Troy-Bilt FLEX product.
The outdoor living experience we introduced last year drove high single-digit comps in our seasonal living product category and across all three geographical divisions.
This particular customer experience most benefits our patio and outdoor fashion areas which recorded strong comps again this quarter over double-digit comp last year.
We continue to see strong sales of patio furniture and robust attachment of replacement cushions and other outdoor accessories.
As a reminder to create our outdoor living experience we took advantage of our larger store format to produce a showroom feel which included removing 15 bays of steel racking and opening up 35% more space for curated style.
To help customers envision and create their outdoor space we display patio sets with coordinating rugs umbrellas and accessories like pillows and planters along with grills and other outdoor products just as you would expect to see in your own backyard.
We are very pleased with the continued performance of our outdoor living experience.
In appliances we drove double digit comps for the second consecutive quarter.
Lowe's offers leading appliance brands such as Whirlpool KitchenAid Bosch Samsung LG Electrolux Frigidaire and GE and we’ve further strengthened our offering with the home channel exclusive launch of the Frigidaire Pro appliance series.
For customers who aspire to have a look and feel of commercial grade appliances in their home this exciting launch provides great value with high end commercial like aesthetics and quality at an accessible price point.
In addition to great brands we provide service advantages of next day delivery and haul away as well as in-house facilitation of repairs and maintenance.
To further enhance on appliance shopping experience towards the end of last year we worked with our vendor partners to introduce 17 kitchen suites to each store.
Each suite includes four coordinated appliances: a refrigerator a range a microwave and a dishwasher.
These suites help customers quickly visualized how a full set of new appliances will look into existing or remodel kitchen.
We’re also excited about HDTV home by Sherwin-Williams an exclusive for Lowe’s in the home channel.
This is the first time in more than 40 years that Sherwin-Williams branded products are available through another retailer.
The brand is the number one purchase driver in paint and Sherwin-Williams is the most recognized brand.
We expect the addition of HDTV home by Sherwin-Williams to appeal to both DIY and Pro customers.
Its long-standing reputation for quality as well as the color expertise of HDTV allows Lowe’s to offer customers the top brands they trust for their next paint project.
We announced this exciting addition in December and set product in all stores by the end of April.
Earlier this month we launched a full national advertising campaign in conjunction with Sherwin-Williams in digital TV and print.
Early customer response to this home channel exclusive brand and to the HDTV curated color set has been positive.
Supporting our omni channel approach to retailing we’re cross merchandising the Sherwin-Williams brand in key areas throughout the store like kitchen vignettes bath vignettes and home décor while also leveraging a color visualizer on lowes.com.
This visualizer helps customers find the perfect color for the walls by virtually painting their own home or experimenting with the simple room.
Then they can come order a paint sample for shipment directly to the home or come into our stores for help on their project together with our specialists.
Combined with the outstanding Valspar and PPG Olympic brand partnerships we expect to grow traffic to our stores and increase overall market share in paint.
We also continue to strengthen our portfolio of Pro-focused brands.
We recently finished rolling our brands such as Kobalt masonry tools GAF Roofing and Owens Corning insulation and we continue to collect feedback from our Pro customers and store employees to identify other local and national brands that best meet the needs of Pro customers.
Along with strengthening our brand portfolio we recently made the new Lowesforpros.com site available to all Pro customers.
Our focus on brands as well as our recent relaunch of Lowesforpros.com are part of a broader commitment to build on our strong foundation for the Pro.
This foundation includes dedicated service in our stores inventory depth aligned with the needs of the Pro and our five ways to save value proposition and our field-based Pro account executives and national accounts team make it easy for medium to large sized companies and government entities to do business with us.
In addition to our efforts to drive top line growth we continue to focus on driving productivity and profitability.
For the quarter even with double-digit growth in categories like appliances and outdoor products we maintained a flat gross margin rate demonstrating our ability to drive profitability while capitalizing on big ticket market share opportunities.
We accomplished this by continuing to partner with our vendors to drive innovation and improve first costs and by leveraging supply-chain fixed costs.
Our stores once again effectively managed payroll hours on solid comp sales growth increasing sales per hour by approximately 4% and driving 13 basis points of payroll expense leverage.
They drove this while achieving record customer satisfaction scores and best in class inventory shrink performance.
We also drove productivity and marketing by increasing our presence in targeted digital media and leveraging our investment in MyLowe's.
And we continue to identify and implement additional expense efficiencies throughout the year by consolidating the procurement of similar types of goods and services across our corporate and store functions.
Likewise with solid depth of high velocity items and job lot quantities in place and through continued application of improved analytics to a thoughtful line review process we are able to hold inventory per store probably flat and increased inventory turns by 17 basis points.
As you can see we are pleased with our first quarter results and the progress we’re making on our initiatives to drive topline growth productivity and profitability.
I look forward to sharing further progress with you over the course of the year.
Thank you for your interest in Lowe’s and I will now turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Sales for the first quarter were $14.1 billion an increase of 5.4%.
Total average ticket increased 3% to $66.63 and total transaction count increased 2.3%.
As discussed on our fourth quarter call we had planned for normal weather and thus for Q1 to be our highest comping quarter of the year.
In fact weather in the Northeast was colder than normal and colder than last year while the west and Florida experienced the opposite.
Therefore the net impact of weather year-over-year was not the tailwind we expected.
As a result our sales for the quarter were slightly below our expectations.
But we are still confident in our outlook for the year.
Comp sales increased 5.2% as comp average ticket grew by 2.9% and comp transactions were up 2.2%.
Looking at monthly trends.
Comps were 5.1% in February 6.6% in March and 3.8% in April.
Gross margin for the first quarter was 35.47% of sales essentially flat to last year and in line with our expectations.
We had positive rate movement from value improvement which was offset by 15 basis points of pressure from the mix of products sold.
SG&amp;A for Q1 is 24.16% of sales which leveraged 60 basis points.
The expense leverage was driven by advertising store payroll and impairment.
Advertising leveraged 25 basis points driven by the efforts to improve productivity that Mike shared.
Store payroll leveraged 13 basis points as we continued to optimize our staffing model.
In the quarter we had $8 million of long lived asset impairment compared to $23 million in last year’s first quarter resulting in a 11 basis points of leverage.
Also there were numerous expenses that leveraged between 5 and 10 basis points in Q1.
These items were somewhat offset by bonus which de-leveraged 35 basis points.
Our bonus accruals are based on actual performance to date relative to plan.
Record customer satisfaction scores coupled with solid Q1 performance this year relative to a tough first quarter last year resulted in higher bonus expense and therefore de-leveraged year over year.
Depreciation for the quarter was $365 million which was 2.59% of sales and leveraged 19 basis points compared to last year’s first quarter as a result of higher sales and assets becoming fully depreciated.
Earnings before interest and taxes increased 76 basis points to 8.72% of sales.
On our Q4 call we discussed the pressure that gross margin and bonus expense would have on first quarter’s flow-through.
The 18 basis points of flowthrough per point of comp about 1% in Q1 was modestly better than our expectations coming into the quarter.
Interest expense at $134 million for the quarter de-leveraged 2 basis points to last year as total debt increased $1.2 billion versus first quarter of 2014.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 38.7% which was higher than the fourth quarter due to the expiration of certain tax provisions.
The higher rate relative to last year was primarily due to a tax settlement in Q1 2014 and negatively impacted first-quarter earnings per share comparisons to last year by approximately $0.06.
Earnings-per-share of $0.70 for the quarter was in line with our expectations and represented a 14.8% increase over last year's $0.61.
Now to a few items on the balance sheet starting with assets.
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the quarter was $1.4 billion.
Our first-quarter inventory balance of $10.6 billion increased $99 million or nine-tenths of a percent over Q1 last year.
Inventory turnover was 3.78 an increase of 17 basis points over Q1 2014.
Asset turnover increased 11 basis points to 1.7.
Moving now to liability section of the balance sheet accounts payable of $8 billion increased $972 million or 13.8% over Q1 last year.
The increase in accounts payable was due to the timing of purchases in the quarter versus last year.
At the end of first quarter lease-adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR was 2.11.
Return on invested capital increased 232 basis points for the quarter to 14.34%.
Now looking at the statement of cash flows.
Operating cash flow was almost $2.5 billion.
Capital expenditures were $232 million resulting in free cash flow of over $2.2 billion.
Free cash flow was $446 million or 24.8% over the same period last year.
In the quarter we repurchased 13.6 million shares for $1 billion.
Our board also approved the new $5 billion share repurchase authorization.
At quarter end we had approximately $6.4 billion remaining under share repurchase authorization.
The remaining $109 million of share repurchase is shown on the statement of cash flows less the shares withheld from employees to satisfy statutory tax withholding liabilities as well as the timing of share repurchase settlement across quarters.
Looking ahead I’d like to address several of the items detailed in Lowe’s business outlook.
As Robert noted economic forecast remained aligned for modestly stronger industry growth in 2015.
While we are optimistic about both the macro forecast and our improving execution we continue to take a prudent approach to our 2015 outlook.
For the year we expect a total sales increase of approximately 4.5% to 5% driven by comp sales increase of 4% to 4.5% and the opening of 15 to 20 stores which include Orchard and two City center locations.
We’re anticipating an EBIT increase of 80 to 100 basis points and are targeting 25 to 30 basis points of EBIT expansion per point of comp above 1%.
While this is our expectation for the year there will be some choppiness quarter to quarter.
Specific to the second quarter there would be some gross margin pressure associated with the additional costs related to the West Coast port issue as well as one more quarter of impact from increased promotional intensity that began Labor Day last year.
For the year we expect that most of the EBIT improvement will come from SG&amp;A.
Expense leverage will come from store payroll marketing bonus and leveraging our scale to achieve cost savings on indirect spent.
In addition we expect fixed leverage associated with sales growth.
The effective tax rate is expected to be 38.1%.
The higher rate relative to 2014 is a result of the settlement of prior year tax matters recognized in Q1 2014.
The higher tax rate impacts earnings growth by roughly $0.06 per share.
For the year we expect earnings per share of approximately $3.29 which represents an increase of 21.4% over 2014.
We are forecasting cash flows from operations to be approximately $5.1 billion.
Our capital forecast for 2015 is now approximately $1.4 billion which is roughly $200 million higher than plan as a result of acquiring certain targeted assets in Canada.
This results in an estimated free cash flow of $3.7 billion for 2015.
We expect to issue incremental debt during the year as we manage to the 2.25 times lease-adjusted debt to EBITDAR target.
Our guidance assumes approximately 3.8 billion in share repurchases for 2015.
Regina we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Brian Nagel with Oppenheimer.
First question I know you just spent a lot of time discussing sales trends but maybe if you could just help us understand better the sales deceleration in the month of April so the final month of your quarter because that was at odds with what your competitor said yesterday about their trend so maybe just some more color there please.
So a couple things Brian.
First as you think about the 3.8% for April relative to the 5.2% for the quarter we did see some softness -- weather-related softness in some areas of the country for our seasonal categories.
But as Mike said in his comments we are exceeding expectations in May.
So we’re comfortable with what we are seeing regarding those seasonal categories those parts of the country where weather has improved.
As it relates to what our competitor reported yesterday if we take a look at – so we’re in a four five four calendar [ph] if we take a look at our performance on a four four five which takes out some of the Easter shift noise that would have crossed our fiscal March and April this year we would have reported essentially a 5% comp for all three months of Q1.
And the second question I have -- there was news out over the past few weeks or a month or so about the flooring category and some of the actions you have taken.
Maybe just update us there on kind of what Lowe's is doing in the flooring category and if that had any impact upon the Q1 results? Brian this is Robert.
I will answer [ph] the impact on Q1 results I will get Mike to address the details of what we are doing in the flooring category.
Mike? Sure there were some couple articles there were some articles out around two issues one was relating to formaldehyde in particular with – one particular partner.
So what we did in essence was we took – we put the products from that particular partner on hold and we will go ahead and we will review the certifications.
All of our partners require to give a certification.
We are reviewing the certification and making sure that there aren’t any issues and so we will work through that.
As we look at our portfolio we are very comfortable that we don’t have issues.
Our vendors are largely US they’ve all certified with us that there are no issues.
So we are very very comfortable that we are in a pretty good place on this and as we said there was no issues relative to flooring in the quarter.
With respect to phthalates the other concern that was raised on vinyl flooring specifically more than 90% of our virgin vinyl flooring today is phthalate free we will move that to 100% by year-end and again we’re comfortable that there is no big issues and as we work with our vendor partners and we continue to scrub this we are not finding any issues as well.
So we don't see any impact in the quarter and frankly our flooring business continues to do well and our reviews with our vendor partners continues to give us the kind of expected results that we expect.
Your next question comes from the line of Laura Champine with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Hi guys.
This is Jason Smith on for Laura.
Thanks for taking my question.
I know you guys touched upon some of the new product introductions in the appliance category but can you kind of give us a better sense as to just overall what drove the double-digit performance in the quarter and what you are seeing in the competitive environment? Sure a couple things.
We talked towards the middle of last year of – making sure that our promotional cadence was aligned with what we saw in the market.
In addition to that we have more space dedicated to the appliance category and certainly most if all of our competitors and we offer the full way of brands and so we like how we are positioned and go after market share in appliances.
We’ve done a couple things we continue to launch exclusive innovative products like the Frigidaire pro series that we’ve talked about that's a home channel exclusive and we also put in kitchen vignettes so that customers who walk-in and see full vignettes of appliances and shop the different brands looking at how a kitchen would look be it a recent remodel kitchen or an existing kitchen with full of vignettes and we’ve seen a couple things coming from that.
First our appliance sales remain strong double-digit both this quarter and last quarter.
We’ve also seen an expansion of number of appliances per ticket and so we feel real good about our position in the appliance business.
Feel real good about initiatives and we feel real good about the support our vendor partners continues to give us to ensure that we retain the number one position in appliances.
If I could just add one quick follow-up any early feedback from the Lowe's for Pros now that it’s open to everyone? Yes Jason this is Rick.
Early on we continue to get good feedback on the site.
We’ve gone through the actual soft launch of that site on May 5.
Currently we have done no incremental marketing to the site.
So what we're seeing is the gravitation of normal traffic to it but we’ve been very pleased with the organic search and the organic growth of the site and we will continue to generate more awareness and more traffic as we continue to move throughout Q2.
But so far we’ve been extremely pleased with the interaction to the site the number of registrations to the site and the activity.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Two things.
First of all could you give us an update in terms of the online the results the growth you are seeing in that as well as the new efforts that you are implementing with them online? Yes Eric this is Rick.
A couple of things.
As we look at dotcom sales for the quarter they grew 25.5% on a comp basis.
Q1 traffic was up double digits to the site and our conversion rate improved as well from an overall perspective for the quarter.
The great thing was we saw both traffic and double-digit rates every month to the quarter and improvement in conversion for every month of the quarter.
A few things that we continue to do Mike talked about the new paint configuration tool that was launched to help customers visualize paint in their home.
We made several other strategic changes to the site throughout the quarter as we continued to look for ways to improve the site along with the filtering process improving better search terms.
We also introduced three other aspects to the site.
We introduced new 360 product views to about 11 500 of our highest viewed items which give customers the complete view of the item across all aspects.
We also introduced product videos to 214 different items that enhance the video capabilities of the customer to actually see the site see the item and actually interact with it to a greater degree.
And then we also enhance the images to 9400 items on the site in the quarter as well to make sure that we did showcase the product in a much better way to the customer.
So extremely pleased with the growth that we saw during the quarter most pleased with the improvement in conversion which I believe is a result of the improved search terms for filtering and the incremental ads to product content that we've made to the site during the quarter.
And then a follow-up.
Mike I would be interested in the magnitude of changes that you are making within merchandising within Lowe's for Pros.
It seems like a number of things going on at the store level.
Curious how the organization is digesting that if this is net benefiting the business if there are periods where there is some disruption as you implement these? How would you evaluate the pace of digesting the changes that you are implementing? There have been number of changes over the last say 2 years I think the team is working through them well.
We don’t spend lot of time talking about some of the new tools that have been deployed like space planning some of the workflow tools for our review process some of the improvements in pricing tools that give to a mark-down optimization and promotional management the efficient item assortment tools we've rolled out a number of tools in the merchandising space to make the merchants certainly more data driven as well as more effective.
When you couple that with our approach to go after more of that pro-business that also facilitated the need for the merchants to do some things very different – and you look at home how we approach brands relative to national brands versus private label brands in those categories very heavy to pro.
We’re doing a lot of things very different.
Here is how I would answer that I think you see a difference in our stores.
I think our merchants and our vendor partners are excited about the changes that we’ve made.
I think they like the success that we see in growth and I think they are working through it well.
I am very proud of how the merchants have digested and I am equally as proud at how much support we’ve gotten from our vendor partners as we continue to work with these changes.
Eric this is Rick.
I would just add from a store perspective that you look at many of these new initiatives they have been ongoing for some time now over the last three years.
I give Dennis Knowles and the store teams a tremendous amount of credit for the number of hours that we’ve invested in training our associates over the past two years on the utilization of these tools and what these sets mean to our stores.
So you mentioned lowesforpros.com you think about the Pro it’s really been a three-year journey of implementing brands implementing inventory levels implementing processes organization design and the addition of lowesforpros was just the last component of that.
So from a store perspective there's been a tremendous investment in training communication and dialogue to make sure that we’re able to execute these programs as they roll out.
And Eric this is Rob.
We think about everything – that Mike and Rick just described including the product resets to come within the pro-focused brands like Mike talked about in this comments in the first quarter Sherwin-Williams significant reset to take place at the stores it was done over the first quarter layering on top of that the training that Rick just mentioned for all of the associates at the pro-desk those type of things and then being able to deliver the results that we delivered in the quarter.
We are investing a lot for the future but we are also doing it with the cadence that allows us to deliver great results like we did for the quarter.
So I am pretty proud of what the team has been able to execute.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with ISI.
A couple of questions.
Wanted to follow up a little bit on the trend through the quarter and where we are into the second quarter.
And Bob if you look at your presentation you can just see how the comps get more difficult all the year.
Help us understand how you see the year playing out in terms of what might be your hardest comp the rest of the way or your easiest comp to build up to our full-year plan? Sure.
So we talked about the first half being stronger than the second half but we also talked about as the year progresses our two-year comparisons -- two-year stack progressively increasing so you heard the guys just talk about a lot of the work the team is doing to improve our offering and our execution to the customer.
Robert talked about modestly improving environment for home improvement.
So we do recognize that we are going against tougher comparisons.
But on balance the macro should be more constructive as the year progresses relative to 2014.
So we are still confident with our plan for 2015 our ability to execute against that plan.
And it sounds like you think the second quarter third quarter and fourth quarter given all those things wrapped together is actually reasonably even.
Is that fair? Not quite fair.
I think I would say that our outlook has modestly decelerating comps Q1 to Q2 to Q3 to Q4 and that somewhat reflects the tougher comparisons from last year.
But as I said we do we expect the two-year stack to modestly improve as we progress throughout the year as well.
If I could have a follow-up question just to understand a little bit on SG&amp;A the bonus expense deleverage.
So we were below plan but we deleveraged bonus.
Could you help us understand that a little bit better as to how the absolute level versus the plan like why do we delever if we were below plan? So a couple of things Greg.
First we were modestly below our sales plan.
We improved flow-through relative to our expectations so the earnings came in on plan.
Still we accrued generally speaking on target for bonus for Q1.
However as Mike indicated we had record performance from our customer satisfaction scores so the approved -- the only aspect of plan that was above -- only aspect of bonus that was above plan was the customer focus program for the store associates.
The majority of deleverage came because of the softness last year because of the dramatic performance below plan last year caused us to unwind some bonus accruals.
So coming into the year we had anticipated having deleverage in Q1 that was one of the pressures that I talked about on the Q4 call is we would have some bonus deleverage in Q1.
It was a little bit higher than expected because of the record customer service scores that were recorded.
Just quickly paint was a below average category.
Now that you are through that transition any estimates as to how much that could have hurt the quarter and just remind us how big paint is as a category for you guys or what that could mean going forward? I will have the guys jump in but as I said we are through with the transition Greg.
We basically had the national launch of Sherwin-Williams basically right at the beginning of second quarter.
We've got all the products in place everyone trained.
It was a below average category which I think is also what we saw from an industry standpoint that paint was a little bit below average in the first quarter.
So we probably had some disruption.
I don't know that we got an amount quantified because it was kind of a reset as we went through the quarter.
So I don't know that we have quantified that but certainly I think we've got the ability to show great strength as we now are backing up the national laws of advertising.
Mike was there anything you wanted to talk about? Yes I’d just add that we are really not disappointed in Q1 we knew that we had to get through a transition.
We are through the transition the national advertising campaign is kicking in.
We are actually very optimistic about it in the back half of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Binder with Jefferies.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the staff optimization work that you are doing.
And then if there were any other notable categories that were softer than planned other than paint? Dan this is Rick.
I will start.
As we look at the quarter we continue to optimize our labor to our customer traffic.
Extremely pleased with the stores and what they were able to do in the quarter.
We hired approximately 51 000 employees in the quarter and during that transition we were also as Bob said able to record customer satisfaction scores across our stores during that timeframe.
Productivity increased -- from a sales per hour perspective increased 4% driving the 10 basis points of leverage.
We continue to look for ways to optimize the store labor model to traffic as well as to maximize any of our non-selling areas to make sure that we are doing everything we can to drive productivity from those areas and put those hours back to the sales floor.
We looked at of course our delivery productivities we are seeing improvement there we are seeing improvement in capability builds the technologies that we are deploying and through a scheduling process as we continue to match our customer employee hours to customer traffic.
So those things I think are really helping us from a productivity standpoint and a staffing optimization standpoint continue to maximize hours on the sales floor to meet the customer traffic to drive continued improvement in close rates during those peak times of day.
So I will just talk to the merchandising divisional performance.
If you think about the ones that were above the average appliances outdoor power equipment and seasonal living they were extremely strong well into double-digits very very strong.
We had a couple that we felt real good about that don't show up in the above average tools and hardware flooring millwork kitchens as an example were great great performers.
I think where we saw pressure was primarily in paint and lumber and building material.
So in lumber and building material we understand that there certainly was a bit of a weather impact.
We can track that one back.
Paint we saw pressure but we expected it as we worked through the transition.
And Dan this is Robert.
Just a reminder all categories were positive in the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Seth Basham with Wedbush Securities.
My question is around sales trends again just making sure I understand this a little bit better.
Because even on a two-year stack basis Bob we saw a pre-market deceleration in trend in April relative to earlier in the quarter.
Is there anything about that month that you can speak to particularly given the fact that weather in the Northeast started to improve significantly then? So Seth as I said to the earlier question a lot of it was driven through discrete weather across the country not just Northeast where we saw some seasonal pressure.
That was for a couple of weeks towards the end of the month.
However we have seen trends improve in the seasonal categories in those geographies.
So no real concern from opportunity to hit the Q2 and 2015 outlook.
Seth I’d just add one thing too as we continue to look at the quarter especially for the North.
As Mike said in his opening comments we stagger our Black Friday events so our Black Friday events in the North and the upper North actually moved into Q2 this year and not Q1.
So that’s some of the things that we are realizing as well in Q1.
Seth just to bring it into perspective here this is Robert.
If you think about looking out over the balance of the year and you look at our comp guidance this year our comp guidance is basically in line with the comps we delivered last year.
If you think about last year coming out of the first quarter we had 0.9 comps so we had a big deficit to make up going over the balance of the year.
Obviously the first quarter this year we got a 5.2 comp in the first quarter.
So we are running ahead of what our trajectory or what our guidance is for the entire year.
So obviously coming out of the first quarter we feel much better about being ahead of what we guide to for the year than the position we were in last year when we had a large deficit to make up so.
And then a follow-up question is just around big-ticket sales.
Pretty big deceleration in big-ticket comps despite double-digit comps in OPE appliances seasonal living.
Were there categories that you can point to that drove the deceleration? So we did see a pretty strong performance 7.7% comp is good performance big-ticket that were driven by OPE and appliances.
We also saw some good movement across all -- moving up across all categories in ticket size.
So really not disappointed at all with the big-ticket performance in the first quarter.
Obviously there is a lot more momentum in Q4 last year that drove all categories higher but certainly not disappointed with the big-ticket performance in Q1.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Merrick with SunTrust.
And just -- as you are looking -- as you are dedicating more space to these kitchen suites have you seen any more strength across categories aside from appliances? I will start Judy and then I will let Mike jump in on top of that.
When Mike talked about the kitchen suites he is really talking about relaying the existing space that we had in the department and the way that we are arranging our offering of appliances into more of the suite versus an individual all washers together dryers those type of things.
So we haven't really dedicated more space from an overall appliance standpoint it’s just the way that we're going to market with those appliance categories.
So in that respect you should see more space allocation impact on other categories.
And then just as an example some of the categories where we are seeing strength we certainly saw it in the appliance business as I mentioned.
We see it in cabinets as an example by having the kitchen suites that are now in the stores sitting next to cabinets.
As customers start to engage in some of those remodel projects in the kitchen it’s easy for them to shop our stores and pull that project together.
We saw strength in areas of flooring as well and so we are pretty optimistic on how the customer is engaging with us to continue to execute through those kitchen projects.
I think -- and I don't know if you want to talk to the project specialist performance as well Rick which is also a good indicator.
Yes as we say Judy the interiors or services business grew above the company average for the quarter.
So we still see continued strength across our services business.
In particular we continue to see our exteriors and interiors programs work extremely well which benefits from the experience creation that we are doing across categories.
And I think one of the big things that Mike and Robert highlighted is again it is important to understand as we talk about suites we are not talking about extended cabinet space we are talking about how we display the appliances together in the appliance department and pulling together the appliance the range the dishwasher the microwave into a set where they are actually showcased together versus being spread across the appliance department which makes it easier for the customer to visualize that set in their home.
Your next question comes from the line of Jaime Katz with Morningstar.
Can you guys just clarify the $3.8 billion of share repurchases? Is that with the debt issuance or could there be some incremental repurchases with additional leverage? So we do plan to issue incremental debt during the course of the year as we manage to the 2.25 times target.
So our outlook does contemplate managing up to that target relative to the 2.11 we finished first quarter to achieve $3.8 billion.
That was our guiding target and we will continue to assess that as the year progresses but that’s where we sit today.
And then I know that it was commented that flooring was slightly below average.
But I am curious if you guys saw any benefit from the brand equity at Lumber Liquidators falling a little bit? Was there any sort of traffic uptick in the category that you guys saw as negative publicity surrounded sort of your peer? I don't want to talk to a competitor.
What I would say is that our flooring business performed very well and when we look at the categories under flooring we did see strength in laminate.
We saw good performance in tile and there was a little bit of pressure that we saw in carpet.
We are always sensitive to watching carpet because we have a very strong carpet offering in particular with our STAINMASTER which is an exclusive brand.
And then lastly with inventory turns they were able to tick up despite West Coast port issues.
Do you guys have any thoughts on where you think that metric could go maybe closer to the end of the year? So we are targeting roughly similar growth that we saw in Q1 15 to 20 basis points improvement for the year – in inventory turn improvement.
Our final question will come from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
I guess I am still confused a little bit about the merchandising performance because I don't ever remember seeing it so lopsided with above average and below average categories.
And maybe you can just shed a little bit of light because I know we had strong performance I think we call that in all three of the above average areas.
Is there any reason to be concerned about that performance and help us maybe understand that? I can talk to that.
The appliances outdoor power – it’s the simple math the appliances outdoor power equipment and seasonal living are up extremely strong compared to where the average is and we looked at this a couple of times as well.
If the appliance outdoor power equipment and seasonal living weren't in strong strong double-digit like we have then the spread wouldn’t be as broad as it is.
When we go through each of the divisional performances and we look at which ones fell just below the average as a result of the strength that we saw in the above average as I said earlier tools and hardware flooring kitchens and millwork did extremely well extremely extremely well.
And where we saw real pressure was in paint and lumber and building materials specifically.
So I wouldn't be worried about the spread.
I think for us the bigger question was could we take in this much of the appliance business and outdoor power equipment business and still manage to a flat gross margin and we are very comfortable that we are able to take in that much market share and hold gross margin about flat.
Also I heard Lowe's for Pros is doing well but I'm not sure if I heard anything about the pro penetration or if you heard or quantified any of that any way toward sales or how do we look at that? Yes Budd this is Rick.
We continue to be very pleased with our performance in Pro as Pros continue to respond to our value statements or five ways to save as we continue to get the great brands into our stores and continue to get those areas working for us.
We still see great performance.
When you look at Pro it was in line with the company from a total sales perspective.
We still see solid growth in applications for credit which to me is a leading indicator of the strength of the category and what we are doing so we still saw solid growth from that.
As well as when you look at both ticket ranges as well as comps by tickets size the Pro categories grew at positive performance across all ticket sizes and all ticket ranges.
So we continue to be very pleased with the performance of Pro especially as they continue to respond to our initiatives and our brand offering but overall it was still in line with the company performance.
And Rick the penetration as a percentage of sales? I think you quantified it last quarter.
Stayed the same at 30.
Yes.
Right at 30 Budd.
Still at 30%.
Okay that’s what I was trying to get to.
And Bob inflation deflation I'm not sure I heard that quantified on the comp.
Negligible Budd had about 10 basis points negative impact.
End of Q&amp;A Thanks Budd.
As always thanks for your continued interest in Lowe's.
We look forward to speaking with you again when we report our second-quarter results on Wednesday August 19.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Lowe's Companies Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Also supplemental reference slides are available on Lowe's Investor Relations Web site within the investor packet.
While management will not be speaking directly to the slides these slides are meant to facilitate your review of the company's results and to be used as a reference document following the call.
During this call management will be using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The supplemental reference slides include information about these measures and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management's expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
Those risks are described in the company's earnings release and in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Hosting today's conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Mr.
Rick Damron Chief Operating Officer; and Mr.
Bob Hull Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the program over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in Lowe's.
We delivered solid results for the quarter and I would like to thank our employees for their hard work and commitment to serving customers.
Comparable sales grew 4.3% primarily driven by a 3.3% increase in average ticket.
We achieved this growth by executing well in a challenging environment that included an increasingly severe drought in California and historic flooding in Texas.
In fact comparable sales growth for our U.S.
home improvement business was 4.6% for the quarter with all 14 regions generating positive comps and positive comps in 11 of 13 product categories.
Our seasonal business performed well.
Strength in outdoor power equipment and seasonal living offset some of the weakness and some of the softness in lawn and garden which was most pronounced in the West.
We also experienced solid growth in big ticket discretionary project categories such as kitchens flooring millwork and fashion fixtures.
And for the third quarter in a row we drove double-digit comps in appliances.
Our team in Canada continued to deliver strong comps in local currency.
Building on the momentum we've been gaining we're accelerating our store expansion in this market.
We recently acquired 12 former Target store locations and one distribution center with plans to open these locations in 2016 and 2017.
Combined with our organic expansion plans we expect to have roughly 70 stores in Canada by 2017.
Our business in Mexico also performed well during the quarter achieving double-digit comps in local currency.
However as the U.S.
dollar strengthened we experienced a 30 basis point drag on our consolidated comp due to foreign currency.
For the quarter gross margin contracted 8 basis points primarily due to the strength in appliances and outdoor power equipment.
We leveraged operating salaries in the quarter and delivered earnings per share of $1.20 a 15% increase over the last year's second quarter.
Delivering on our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders in the quarter we repurchased $1.5 billion of stock under our share repurchase program and paid $218 million in dividends.
In May our Board of Directors approved a 22% increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.23 per share to $0.28 per share.
Looking forward to the second half of 2015 key drivers of the home improvement industry remain supportive for growth.
Economists are forecasting a modest acceleration in both incomes and consumer spending this year.
And recovery in the housing market continues with moderate home price appreciation and stronger gains in housing turnover.
We also continue to be encouraged by the results of our second quarter consumer sentiment survey.
Roughly half of respondents indicated that they believe they're home values are increasing; double the number from 2012.
And this positive sentiment around home values is rooting through to spending patterns with plans to begin a home improvement project in the next six months continuing its recent upward trend.
Further survey respondents indicated that growth in their home improvement spending is outpacing increases in their overall spending suggesting a strengthening affinity for the home.
Our key priorities in 2015 should allow us to capitalize on opportunities within an improving economy.
We are pursuing further top line growth through continued development of omni-channel capabilities differentiating ourselves through better customer experiences and improving our product and service offering for the pro customer.
We also remain committed to improving our productivity and profitability with opportunities in a few specific areas.
Including store payroll marketing and leveraging our scale to get cost savings on indirect spend.
The execution of our strategic priorities alongside an improving macroeconomic backdrop together with our keen focus on productivity and profitability give us confidence in our business outlook for 2015.
Thanks again for your interest.
With that let me turn the call over to Rick.
Thanks Robert and good morning everyone.
During the second quarter we recorded our strongest performance in big ticket categories such as appliances kitchens outdoor power equipment and seasonal living.
This is a reflection of consumers' increasing desire to invest in their homes as well as the strength of our product offerings in these categories and our evolving omni-channel capabilities.
In appliances we drove double digit comps for the third consecutive quarter.
In addition to our leading brands in those category such as Whirlpool KitchenAid Bosch Samsung LG Electrolux Frigidaire and GE.
We provide service advantages like delivery and haul away and facilitate in-home repairs and maintenance.
We have further strengthened our offering with the home channel exclusive launch of the Frigidaire pro appliance series and the introduction of 17 kitchen suites.
And understanding that more than 80% of customers start shopping for appliances online we have enhanced our presentation on Lowes.com including improved product search enhanced videos improved presentation like 360 degree views and simplified product groupings.
It's no wonder that for the seventh time in the last eight years J.D.
Power and Associates has ranked Lowe's highest in customer satisfaction among appliance retailers based upon our knowledgeable sales specialists breadth of assortment competitive pricing and delivery.
In order to sell the entire kitchen we display our kitchen products including cabinets and countertops immediately adjacent to our appliance offering.
This quarter we drove above average comps in kitchens through a combination of targeted promotions and our investment in project specialists who meet customers in their homes.
These employees represent another important element of our omni-channel strategy.
We now have project specialists who focus on the exterior of the home available across all U.S.
stores and we're expanding our interior project specialist program into another 470 stores reaching over three-quarters of our stores by year end.
With our ability to coordinate style provide design expertise and find the right contractor to do the job we are rapidly becoming the project authority in home improvement.
We achieved high single digit comps in outdoor power equipment with particular strength in walk-behind and riding mowers and pressure washers.
We offer a wide range of mowers to help customers maintain their yards.
And we continue to provide compelling and exclusive brands and innovations.
Like our innovative Kobalt 80 Volt Handheld Outdoor Power tools and our home channel exclusive Hustler Raptor 60 inch zero-turn mowers a brand landscapers know and trust.
The outdoor living experience we introduced last year drove strong comps in our Seasonal Living product category.
In fact our patio and outdoor fashion area recorded strong solid comps again this quarter on top of double digit comps last quarter assisted by a robust attachment of replacement cushions and other outdoor accessories.
Entering the second half of the year we'll use this seasonal stage to address customer needs for the fall like planting leaf removal home winterization and exterior maintenance.
Then as winter arrives we will help customers refresh their homes for holiday guests decorate and organize their home after the holidays.
We will focus on using this space to provide the inspiration guidance products and services that customers need to tackle the projects that are relevant for each micro season.
Our performance in Paint was in line with the industry.
We are pleased with the launch of HGTV HOME by Sherwin-Williams and look forward to building further momentum with this brand.
The brand is the number one purchase driver in paint and Sherwin-Williams is the most recognized brand in the category.
We expect the addition of HGTV by Sherwin-Williams to appeal to both DIY and pro customers.
Its longstanding reputation for quality as well as at color expertise of HGTV allows Lowe's to offer customers the top brands they trust for their next paint project.
Combined with their outstanding Valspar and PPG Olympic brand partnerships we expect to grow traffic to our stores and increase overall market share in paint.
We also continue to strengthen our portfolio of pro-focused brands.
In addition to the brands we rolled out in the first quarter including Goldblatt masonry tools GAF Roofing and Owens Corning Insulation.
Last month we expanded our line of Hitachi pneumatic nailers and fasteners a home channel exclusive to Lowe's stores nationwide.
Lowe's now offers the broadest selection of Hitachi power tools with the latest innovations that deliver lighter faster and more durable products.
We continue to collect feedback from our pro customers and employees to identify other local and national brands that best meet the needs of pro customers.
Along with strengthening their brand portfolio we officially re-launched lowesforpros.com at the beginning of the second quarter and have seen an increase in use by our pro customers in line with our expectations; so far we have been promoting lowesforpros online and through pro's social media.
And in the third quarter we will begin the formal launch through our pro appreciation days as well as other media.
We continue to actively serve the pros through our account executive pro services or AEPs.
AEPs call on regional customers to help them order and replenish products across multiple stores.
We currently have approximately 135 AEPs in the field an increase of 25 over last year.
Our AEPs have been very effective in growing our business with larger pro customers especially maintenance repair.
and operations or MRO customers.
We are pleased with the program's results.
Excluding the AEPs we added this year we saw double digit second quarter growth in AEP sales which contributed to solid pro account sales growth in the quarter.
Our focus on strengthening our portfolio of brands serving regional pro customers through AEPs as well as our recent re-launch of lowesforpros.com are part of a broader commitment to build on our strong foundation with the pro.
In addition to our efforts to drive top line growth we continue to focus on driving productivity and profitability.
For the quarter we capitalized on big ticket market share opportunities with strong growth in categories like appliances and outdoor products which contributed to a slight decline in gross margin rate but substantial margin dollar growth.
We mitigated the unfavorable mix impact by continuing to partner with our vendors to drive innovation improve first [ph] costs through shared efficiencies and to achieve higher sell-through of seasonal products.
Our store teams once again effectively managed payroll increasing sales per hour in line with comps.
We continue to leverage our prior technology investments as well as improved selling processes enabled by our customer experience design team.
Most importantly we have achieved this greater payroll efficiency by improving customer satisfaction scores.
We also drove productivity in marketing by increasing our presence in targeted digital media and leveraging our investment in MyLowe's.
And we continue to identify and implement additional expense efficiencies throughout the year by consolidating procurement similar types of goods and services across our corporate and store functions.
The quarter tested our flexibility and capabilities of our supply chain and we pass that test with flying colors.
To meet heightened demand in the Pacific Northwest where temperatures were unusually warm our distribution teams worked efficiently to move portable air conditioners from the Northeast.
Likewise they were instrumental in moving products to eastern Texas so we could help customers recover from flooding and begin the process of repairing and rebuilding in the wake of storms.
While inventory at quarter end was up 4% to last year it reflects our commitment to be in stock for items that are most relevant to our customers.
For instance we ended the second quarter with higher levels of appliances to support exceptionally strong sales as well as higher levels of portable air conditioning units and grills.
We expect to sell through most of the seasonal inventory in the third quarter and to end the year with minimal growth in seasonal in the inventory per store.
We're pleased with our agile execution in the second quarter.
We continue to make progress on our initiatives to drive top line growth and are focused on improving productivity and profitability.
We look forward to sharing further progress to you over the course of the year.
Thank you for your interest in Lowe's and I'll now turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
Sales for the second quarter were $17.3 billion an increase of 4.5%.
The sales increase was driven by both ticket and transactions with total average ticket up 3.3% to $67.83 while total customer transactions grew 1.2%.
Comp sales were 4.3% driven by a comp average ticket increase of 3.3% and comp transactions growth of 1%.
Looking at monthly trends comps were 3.6% in May 4.6% in June and 4.6% in July.
In Q2 July 4th fell in fiscal July this year and fiscal June last year.
While the shift did not affect comp sales for the quarter it did impact the monthly spread.
We estimate that normalizing for the timing of the holiday June and July comps would have been 3.9% and 5.8% respectively.
Year-to-date total sales of $31.5 billion were up 4.9% versus the first half of 2014 driven by a 4.7% increase in comp sales.
Gross margin for the second quarter was 34.47% sales which decreased 8 basis points from Q2 last year.
The decline in gross margin was driven by mix and promotional activity.
The mix of product sold primarily appliances and outdoor power equipment negatively impacted gross margin by approximately 20 basis points.
Also we have noted our efforts to adjust our promotional calendar to be more competitive with the market we anniversary this promotional change in the third quarter.
The pressure from these items was largely offset by value improvement.
Year-to-date gross margin was 34.92% of sales a decrease of 6 basis points from the first half of 2014.
SG&amp;A for Q2 was 20.94% of sales which leveraged 39 basis points.
We experienced leverage in a variety of expenses including store payroll bonus maintenance and repairs utilities advertising and payroll taxes.
These items were somewhat offset by store closing cost of $13 million related to a lease termination for a recent relocation as well as updated lease assumptions for stores closed in 2011.
Also in the quarter our Canadian business incurred $4 million of expenses associated with the recent purchase of certain target assets.
This was primarily related to a lease termination cost for our existing distribution center as we worked to transition into the larger former target facility.
In addition the repairing costs associated with the 12 store leases that we announced.
These two items totaled $17 billion impacted EBIT and EPS by 10 basis points and a penny per share respectively.
Year-to-date SG&amp;A was 22.39% of sales which leveraged 48 basis points versus the first half of 2014.
Depreciation for the quarter was $375 million which was 2.16% of sales and leveraged 10 basis points.
In Q2 earnings before interests and taxes were even increased 41 basis points to 11.37% of sales.
For the first half of 2015 EBIT was 10.18% of sales which was 56 basis points higher in the same period last year.
For the quarter interest expense was $133 million.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 38.8%.
Earnings per share was at $1.20 for the second quarter an increase of 15.4% over last year.
For the first six months of 2015 earnings per share of $1.90 represented a 15.9% increase over the first half of 2014.
The $1.90 was in line with our year-to-date plan.
Now to a few items on the balance sheet starting with assets; cash and cash equivalents at the end of the quarter was $900 million.
Our inventory balance of 9.7 billion increased 389 million or 4% versus Q2 last year.
As Rick mentioned the increase was driven by appliances to support sales growth as well as seasonal inventory.
Inventory turnover was 3.9 of 16 basis points over last year.
Asset turnover increased the 11 basis points to 1.74.
Moving on to the liability section of the balance sheet accounts payable of $7.1 billion represented a 15% increase over Q2 last year primarily due to the timing of purchases year-over-year.
At the end of second quarter lease-adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR was 2.08 times.
Return on invested capital increased 237 basis points for the quarter to 14.98%.
Looking at the statement of cash flows year-to-date operating cash flow was almost 4.2 billion and capital expenditures for 570 million resulting in free cash flow of nearly $3.6 billion which is up 2% to last year.
In May we entered into a $1 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement.
At this point we expect to receive approximately 14.5 million shares.
But the ultimate number of shares will be determined upon completion of the program in the third quarter.
We also repurchased approximately 7.2 million shares for $500 million for the open market.
In total we repurchased $1.5 billion in the quarter with approximately 4.9 billion remaining under share repurchase authorization.
Looking ahead I'd like to address several of the items detailed in Lowe's business outlook.
As Robert noted the key drivers of the home improvement industry remains supportive for growth.
For the year we expect total sales increase of approximately 4.5% to 5% driven by account sales increase of 4% to 4.5% and the addition of 15 to 20 stores which includes five Orchard and two City Center locations.
We're anticipating an EBIT increase of 80 to 100 basis points and are targeting 25 to 30 basis points of EBIT expansion per point of comp above 1%.
While this is our expectation for the year there will be some choppiness quarter-to-quarter.
For the year we expect most of the EBIT improvement will come from SG&amp;A.
Expense leverage will come from store payroll marketing bonus and leveraging our scale to achieve cost savings and indirect spend.
In addition we expect fixed cost leverage associated with sales growth.
Our confidence of flow-through will accelerate in the second half of 2015 is based on a few items.
First gross margin pressure from both the changes in the promotional calendar and mix should dissipate in the second half and we have much easier second half prior year comparisons.
Also in the fourth quarter of 2014 we increased bonus accruals which leveraged in Q4 this year.
Lastly we expect additional leverage from credit as a result of program growth.
The effective tax rate is expected to be 38.1%.
The higher rate relative to 2014 is the result of a settlement of prior tax matters recognized in Q1 2014.
The higher tax rate impacts earnings growth by roughly $0.06 per share.
For the year we expect earnings per share of approximately $3.29 which represents an increase of 21.4% over 2014.
We are forecasting cash flow from operations to be approximately $5 billion.
Our capital forecast for 2015 is now approximately 1.3 billion with results in estimated free cash flow of $3.7 billion for 2015.
We expect to issue incremental debt during the year as we manage to the 2.25 times lease-adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR target.
Our guidance assumes approximately 3.8 billion in share repurchases for 2015.
Regina we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Simeon Gutman with Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So I think the key question is on flow-through and thanks for some of that color Bob.
You mentioned that there is going to be some seasonal choppiness first half of this year.
That looks like it was the case because it's below average.
You mentioned a couple of items that will accelerate that for the back half.
I guess can you reiterate I guess what gives you the confidence? Are there some indirect cost saves that are in place or those are still to come? And then as far as the promotional cadence goes can you just remind us is that a general comment about the overall business or is that within certain categories? So Simi I will start with kind of the mechanics of the improved flow-through in the second half and I will let Mike talk about changes to the promotional calendar impact on the second half.
So there is a number of items that gives us confidence that second half flow-through is going to be higher than first half.
I called out three in my comments.
So let me give you a little bit more color around those three.
I mentioned the promotional calendar and mixed pressure dissipating as well as easier compares.
If you look at 2014 gross margin improved 42 basis points in the first half of 2014 and declined 6 basis points in the second half.
So we do have easier comparison in the second half.
For 2015 gross margin declined 6 basis points.
We expect about 20 basis points of improvement in the second half or roughly 26 basis points swing.
Second in bonus for the first half of 2015 we have seen 7 basis points of de-leverage in bonus.
We expect about 13 basis points of leverage in the second half of 2015 or roughly 20 basis points swing.
Lastly credit; credit was flat to 2014 for the first half.
We expect about 15 basis points of leverage in the second half of 2015 for a swing of 15 basis points.
So those three items are the lion’s share of what gives us confidence in the flow-through.
We do have a couple of other items given timing of projects like facilities repairs and store enviro-projects where the first half is a little bit heavier than the second half.
But we do have a number of items that we can point to that give us confidence in the second half flow-through.
I will talk to the promotional environment.
I would describe the promotional environment as stable.
I would say in the second quarter we targeted promotions largely at appliances of the big ticket categories with the intent to match the promotional intensity of the competition.
So while our promotional intensity increased relative to the second quarter of last year it was consistent with competitive environment.
We expect that to abate in the second half of the year as we wrap -- when we started to increase our promotional intensity last year which is around Labor Day.
Simeon this is Rick.
I would just add to that is the one thing we did in the second half of last year which was timing around the promotional events is around the holidays with the two-day extensions of the events.
We will not comp that until Labor Day this year.
So that's what also Bob was mentioning when we talk about promotional pressures those incremental two days that did not happened last year this time during the first half we will begin to comp that actually in Q3.
And just to clarify the store closing costs I think some of the Canada costs those -- any of those linger into the third or back half and then I'm assuming that's -- you're excluding that from some of your leverage assumptions for the remainder of the year? So those [$17] [ph] million I mentioned was in the first half.
The only thing that extended to the second half is the carrying costs for the 12 Target leases.
That's relative small.
That was only about $0.5 million of the $4 million in Q2 that is embedded in our outlook for the year.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Thanks a lot and good morning to you.
I want to focus on a couple of sales items.
First of all can you talk about the impact of the weather-related businesses on the comp overall and especially on transaction count whether that had a material impact and whether you saw the cadence of the business change as [both you] [ph] move past the peak of the outdoor season and perhaps some of the weather issues particularly Texas would have faded? So I will start with the transaction count impact.
So we mentioned that we had two categories that were below average.
Lawn and garden was actually negative.
If we think about tickets below $50 they were only up 0.8%.
So they were positive but really hurt by lawn and garden and the weakness in that business largely because of the strange weather we had in the mid quarter.
Okay.
And then a second follow-up I know that paint based on your slide deck was also below the Company average.
You do have some new product intros.
What's the state of that category for you? Was there a weather impact there as well? Is it product transition that you think is impacting that business for Lowe's? We saw the bulk of our pressure in paint largely in exterior categories as well exterior stains in particular is where we saw the bulk of our pressure largely in Texas and Midwest.
We are very pleased with the Sherwin-Williams rollout.
We love our relationship with Valspar and PPG.
And we are excited about our paint business but we did see some weather impact in the second quarter.
That's great.
And just a final quick follow-up Mike; so just to play devil's advocate on the promotional cadence you did get more promotional last year.
Your appliance business has been extremely strong presumably hand-in-hand with that promotional stance.
How are you thinking about the sales in the businesses where you got more promotional as that promotional intensity abates? We like the fact we gain share obviously.
We think we've done a number of things.
We think the promotional piece was a part of it but keep in mind that our promotional cadence was designed to match the promotional environment that we were in.
I would say a little different we went from underpromoting to promoting at the industry level.
That said when you look at the outperforming appliances it's not coming from a [technical difficulty] promoting at the level of the industry and our outperformance is coming from the things that we have talked about improved display of appliances having the vignettes and the suites of appliances that we talked about having the next day delivery of appliances.
The fact that we control our appliance inventory is a powerful thing; one of the few that controls their appliance inventory.
So we would like to grow in big ticket but it's not coming from additional promotion beyond what you see at the industry level.
Thanks so much for that Mike.
And Matt this is Robert.
Just to -- as a reminder with respect to paint when bringing in the HGTV Home by Sherwin-Williams product that reset didn't complete till the end of April.
So now obviously we've got the reset complete end of April.
We've been working obviously through this quarter to build the awareness with the consumer that that product is now available in our stores in addition to as Mike mentioned the Valspar and Olympic product that we have.
So building that awareness with the consumer and we are pleased with the traction we are starting to get with that brand.
Understood.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
Good morning guys.
You guys have clearly made a lot of merchandise changes to appeal to your pro customers more.
But I am curious when you talk to your pro customers what attributes do they seem to value the most from your segment? Is it price is it brand selection proximity to store? Like if you guys could kind of create a hierarchy; that would be very very helpful.
Scott this is Rick.
I will talk a little bit about it and then I will turn it over to Mike to talk a little bit about the brands.
When we talk to the pro one of the largest I think contributing factors is location.
Proximity to the store is a definite aspect of the pro environment.
If you are not convenient from a location standpoint then you don't -- you are not as relevant.
And that's based on what we know from a research standpoint.
I would say that we continue to look at other aspects of where we are from a general purpose.
And we talked about five ways to say we know that delivery and services play an important role as well as price but I would say the biggest things that we have got right now would be location.
It would be having the right brands and then making sure that we are competitive from our product standpoint and services standpoint.
I think all of that is fairly equal weight when we think through where we are.
I'll build on that Rick.
When we talk to Pros -- and this is in no particular order but brands certainly are important to them.
Inventory depth is very very important to them.
Breath of assortments so they can go one place and complete the job is important.
And localization is equally as critical.
There are local norms and building codes that we got to get right.
We deployed a field-based merchandizing team to help ensure that we get better localization.
We are pleased with the progress that we are making.
Then to Rick's point services are important like jobsite delivery and access to credit.
So I am careful not to put one above the other.
We got to have them all and our program is working towards getting better at all of them.
And so when you guys -- I'm sorry.
I just want to say Scot in addition to the key drivers that Mike and Rick mentioned two other things that also resonate very well right you've got to have the brands you've got to have depth there's inventories you've got to have the convenience.
And that is our value proposition all our proprietary credit resonates very well with the pro customer and the re-launch of lowesforpros that we just launched.
We are also getting great feedback from Pro customers that it's a much more convenient way to do business with us as well.
So that's new item just really launched this quarter.
Got you.
All right thanks a lot gentlemen.
Your next question will come from the line of Kate McShane with Citi Research.
Hi.
Thank you good morning.
We noticed that you outpaced your largest competitor in ticket by over 150 basis points.
And I wondered if this was solely a function of the strength of appliances or did any other categories contribute to that.
And you also saw the meaningful acceleration in sales of greater than $500.
Can you talk to the drivers of that as well? Hi this is Mike Jones.
I cannot talk to that but we are very pleased in our growth in ticket.
In fact this quarter's average ticket is the highest recorded since 2007 so the teams did a great job.
The higher mix of appliances and Outdoor Power Equipment drove approximately one-third of the growth in ticket.
The remainder of the increase was driven by customers moving to higher price points within product categories.
In fact we observed a higher ticket growth in pretty much every product category.
Yes Kate this is Rick.
I would also add to that that our service businesses also contributes that.
Our services business for the quarter outpaced the total company comp.
And when you look at that the PSI our interior specialist programs and exterior specialist programs performed very well.
We are very pleased with the results that we get there.
And those two aspects also drive a higher average ticket from a project standpoint.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Christopher Horvers with JP Morgan.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
So I wanted to focus on the acquisition of the stores in Canada.
The four Target stores I think you said you'll be at 20 stores by 2017.
At what point do you have mass in that market to where you will see profitability grow? I think you are not making money at this point due to the mass.
When do you see it getting to profitability? Chris I think we have 39 stores open today.
We have acquired the additional 12 Target -- former Target locations.
We obviously already had some stores in the pipeline that we -- in our organic growth pipeline.
So we said combined with the Target locations what we had the pipeline by 2017 we will be to about 70 stores.
Actually we were just about to the point of -- would have been breakeven next year in Target in Canada with our current operations had we not taken on the additional locations.
It will take a year or so to get those open and up to speed.
So by the time we get to that 70 store mark we will have a pretty good critical mass to grow off of there in Canada.
And then on a related note can you share your updated thoughts on your Australia investment? I know you've become more involved in that business over the past year or so.
How are trends occurring there and what's your latest thought process on your investment there? Yes actually I was just down last week for a joint venture board meeting.
I met with the team.
I walked some of the stores.
The team down there has gone and looked at opportunity to improve.
The operations they have come in with a new format and working on resetting the layout of some of the stores.
New stores were opening obviously with the new layout but resetting some existing stores increasing the range of product in categories where we didn't have quite enough range down there with the customer and create much better theater for presentation of the product in areas like flooring Tool World those type of things.
And very pleased we are seeing great performance over the new format compared to the original layout that we had opened in the stores.
So very pleased with the progress the team is making down there.
As we've talked previously on the calls we have slowed down the rate of expansion to be able to make sure that we get the stores out of the ground operating at a higher annual rate.
And then being able to go back and take some of those expanded range and the new layout to the existing base of stores that we have.
So overall very impressed with the visit I had last week and the progress that I see the team making down there.
Perfect.
And then one quick follow-up; on the -- Bob you mentioned the leverage in credit in the back half.
Is there a timing of 3Q versus 4Q where you would expect those basis points? Chris we would expect it over both Q3 and Q4.
Perfect.
Thanks very much.
Thank you Chris.
Your next question will come from the line of Mike Baker with Deutsche Bank.
Hi thanks.
A couple questions; one did I just hear you say -- so a third of the ticket increase was due to going to higher price line items which to me sounds a little bit like up the continuum.
Is that coming back now in the better economy? Can you compare that one-third of the ticket increase to how it's been the last couple of quarters? We don't call it up the continuum but it certainly is an outtake from the value improvement initiative where we have improved line designs that allow us to sell up the continuum.
Certainly we've done a lot by way of training with our store associates to enable them to be able to sell up as well.
And our relationship with our vendor partners are absolutely critical where we collaborate with them to have both better products more innovation and better line designs and price point progressions that allow us to sell up as well.
So why we don't pull it up to continuum it's certainly a lot of familiarities to what was being done under that program as well.
And is that something that has been accelerating over the last couple of quarters? I would say it depends on category.
There are some categories where we are seeing it accelerate.
There are some categories that some of the innovation starts to get older.
We are starting to modulate some.
But what we have challenged our merchants to do is to go out there and find innovation each and every day and to work with our vendor partners to ensure that that we have the ability to sell up the price point because the innovation allows us to do it.
And just to touch on that if you look at some of the launches as of recent like our Kobalt 80 Volt products handheld products are doing very well.
Our American Standard VorMax toilet it's to my knowledge the only self-cleaning toilet in the market.
That continues to do very well.
Our Centipede work surface for pros holds 3000 pounds of weight with a 4 by 8 square foot area doing very well.
So we have a number of new launches that give our associates something to talk about so that they can sell up the price point.
Okay makes sense.
One more quick one if I could; buybacks if you stick to your guidance for the year I think you're going to buy back about $1.1 billion in the back half which is a lot less than you bought back in the first half.
Is there any upside to the buyback plan? So Mike we've repurchased 2.5 billion to date.
That suggests 3.8 which would give us 1.3 in the second half.
Certainly if we've got better performance in the second half we could see some upward movement there but at this point in time we are comfortable with the $3.8 billion target.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thank you Mike.
Your next question comes from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Hi good morning.
Thank you.
Wondering if you could maybe just walk through any regional disparities you saw in the quarter as you think about year-over-year comps just to help flush out the weather impacts a little bit more.
When you look Dennis at certain cross regional performances we were very pleased with the consistency we saw across regions.
If you look at it from a divisional perspective we saw the strongest performance in our Southern division across the country.
But the balance between regions was pretty consistent across the country as well.
So I guess the weather impacts you noted would be more consistent.
I guess there's weather impact everywhere as far as an overhang in your view? Well I think we definitely saw more weather impact.
Particularly if you're talking about rain in the southern markets and the western markets the drought in California but you're always looking at weather from what happened this year to what happened last year.
You always had migration between markets and geographies that you see from that perspective.
But when you look at it like I said the south the north and then the west was probably the way that we would break out our overall performance from a divisional perspective.
Okay thanks.
And then Bob with respect to the second half margin expansion guidance and if you were to look at the top and bottom end of your range what are the potential negative offsets to the positive discrete items you mentioned that would flex you from the top to the bottom? Well certainly if you think about negative impacts if revenue comes in lower than expected that would pressure the amount of fixed cost leverage.
We got a plan.
And then if there's any acceleration in the promotional environment that would impact gross margin.
We feel good about a lot of things we're doing.
We've spoken about the capabilities we put in place with regard to indirect spend.
That's going to deliver savings without regard to the sales environment.
Also to the extent that we've got pressure on sales more gross margins the second half that would probably accelerate the amount of bonus leverage that we've got.
We've got some mitigants [ph] that we believe would offset any pressure that might come our way.
Okay but fair to say the vast majority of the variance is top line-driven? I think there's a number of risks that is certainly one of them.
Okay thank you guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lasser with UBS.
Good morning.
Thanks a lot for taking my question.
So over the last four quarters as you've matched the promotional cadence of the market outdoor power equipment and appliances have performed above the Company's average.
So as you think about the second half of the year when you don't expect an incremental step-up in the promotional activity what categories do you anticipate will get better such that your comps will remain around this level especially with the comparisons getting more difficult? We expect to still see growth in outdoor power equipment and appliances.
We're excited about seasonal leaving behind some of the work that you see us do with our -- customer experience organization as we go into the back half of the year.
We're excited about some of the launches that we have in flooring.
And in particular laminate.
Laminate for the second quarter was up double digits.
And we got a great launch that we just did with one of our vendor partners that we are pretty excited about with our Pergo laminate product partnering with Mohawk; so excited about that.
I tend to look at it more as where do we have launches that would drive incremental growth.
And certainly laminate is exciting for us Lennox HVACs excited for us.
We did a key launch with Rinnai in tankless water heaters so excited about that Hitachi Pneumatics and some of the work that we did in tools.
We're excited about as well behind Goldblatt.
And so again I'm cautious to try to predict where the industry is going to track growth.
I tend to focus a little more where the initiatives are.
And we got some great initiatives and some great research that we think it will drive performance in the back half.
Michael this is Rick.
The one thing I would add to that is we think in lumber and building materials you see the deflation begin to abate which will help as well.
And then paint will be another key category as we go into the back half of the year as we create more awareness around Sherwin-Williams and we see the weather become more conducive especially on the exterior side of the business to drive that category.
Let me ask the question I guess from a different way.
Are there categories or product areas right now where you are under the market from a promotional perspective and could you see yourself going above the market based on the return that you've been able to achieve with the promotional activity that you've engaged in over the last year? I think we're promoting at about the market for most of the categories.
And to the extent we see share opportunities in a given category we are going to lean a little heavier into promotion for that particular category as I would answer that.
To Mike's last point when you think about OP and appliances I think there is some share opportunities out there as we've seen shift in the -- and from an industry standpoint certainly I think we've got a great line up as Rick took you through in his comments on the appliances some of the new product that we've got out there that's resonating well.
High in OPE.
So we expect that to continue to be strong.
But then layering on the other things that Mike talked about including from paint not only is it the new brand the abatement of the weather challenge but it's also we reset our stores in the first half of the year first quarter of the year.
So we had disruption in our paint department obviously as we were going through that reset that's all behind us as well.
Okay that's helpful.
And just quickly as my follow-up Robert there was discussion around the MRO market opportunity in your prepared remarks.
Maybe you could provide some broader thought on how you think Lowe's can pursue that market potential especially in light of what's happening in the competitive landscape.
Yeah.
That was actually I think in Rick's comments so I will let him address that.
Yeah.
When you look at that we talked over the last several years about our holistic strategy for the pro and we are improving our product and service offering as Mike talked about with brands and we talked about in the outside selling organizations and what we have done in our five ways to save program and the launch of lowesforpros.com really help us continue to feel confident in our strategic priorities around the pro customer.
We feel confident in our ability to continue to meet and exceed our expectations from that standpoint.
And I think it's also important to remember that the MRO historically been a very strong customer for us and really the advent of our account executive pro services is in place to help us continue to facilitate the growth of the MRO space.
And we know that loweforpros.com will continue to drive affinity with that customer which has the tendency to shop more as much from a dotcom platform as in the store.
So we will feel good with where we are but we are always evaluating our strategies and our priorities to make sure that we remain relevant for that customer.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
Hey guys.
Bob quick one on the balance sheet the improved AP to inventory ratio you mentioned a little bit of timing there but the strength has been going on for about five quarters now.
So can you give us a sense of maybe what you're doing differently there and how long you think you can sustain these improved trends in payables? Sure Peter.
So accounts payable is up 15% year-over-year primarily related to timing of purchases.
At quarter we also saw roughly a 2.5 day improvement in days payable outstanding.
The merchants teams has been working really hard to evaluate today's inventory in hand relative to today's payable and try to get better coverage there.
That's something that has been reignited of late.
We saw about a day improvement last year.
We want to have roughly a day and half or two day improvement this year.
So while the timing will come and go at year end we should see some improvement just from the days payable outstanding.
There is a number of tools in place including a supply chain financing program that's been quite effective to allow our vendors to leverage Lowe's balance sheet.
Okay perfect; sounds good.
And then maybe Rick a quick one for you on the OPE strength particularly with respect to the riders.
Do you think we are entering a replacement cycle there? That's a category that has not had a lot of strength for several years? So just curious what you think is going on there if it's more than just kind of a one season type thing? This is Mike Jones.
I would say its two things one of which is innovation.
We are seeing a lot more innovation on tractors than what you've seen in the past.
And there is a bit of replacement cycle as well.
So I think we are still getting a lift from both.
And then the only thing I would add to that Peter is as Robert spoke about earlier we continue to gain market share in that category and we think with the brand the lineup the innovation that we had we will continue to gain market share in that category throughout the year.
Okay.
Thanks so much guys.
Good luck.
Regina we have got time for one more question.
And your final question comes from the line of Greg Melich with Evercore ISI.
Great thanks.
I will make it count I guess.
I guess two questions; first on just overall sales Bob if we look at your guidance it looks like you did a comp of 4.8% in the first half and it implies that the second half you're assuming about a 3% to 4%.
And if that's the case how should we think about SG&amp;A leverage ex the bonus stuff that you talked about given that there's less comp in the plan? What else might be helping it? Yes.
So first half comps were 4.7 Greg; second half comps would be in the 4-ish range so not terribly dissimilar.
There is a variety of factors that would contribute to leverage; Rick talked about the good work done with the store operations teams to continue to thoughtfully put associates in front of customers that allows just few more effective in our utilization of payroll.
That certainly continues in the second half of the year.
I mentioned the credit we've got project-related expenses around facilities repairs and store environment projects that we were first half weighted.
We will get benefit there.
And then indirect spend it's a capability that continues to get momentum.
That should give us some greater benefit in the second half of the year.
So what I'd say is that there's not a lot of difference in the comp first half versus second half and then we have got some other discrete items that should drive us SG&amp;A leverage.
Great and I'd love whoever wants to do it give us an update on your online and your multi-channel business the dotcom sales how much they grew and also given the lowesforpros re-launch any incremental metrics there as to the take up would be great.
Thanks.
I'll start.
Greg this is Robert and then I'll turn it over to Rick to talk.
For lowesforpros we continue to see a great performance from an online standpoint.
I think when as Rick went through his comments he talked about some of the additional features and benefits that we're adding to lowes.com which is resonating really well with the customer particularly when we have more and more customers starting their purchase process online.
They may as you know finish it online or come to the store but overall lowes.com is up to about 20% in the quarter.
Now I'll get Rick to talk about the receptivity we've had for lowesforpros launch.
Yeah Greg.
I think the thing that we've really have been looking at of course we've had about a quarter of worth of data that we've been evaluating as we continue to move through.
And we are learning as we see shopping behaviors of the pro on the category and on the site what they're looking at what categories are really resonating well.
We've been very pleased with receptivity of the site itself.
We are measuring things such as category of products that are being purchased assortments that are being evaluated.
We are looking at the amount of channel pick up; are they picking up in store are they picking up to the delivery or should be in parcel.
So we think we are very pleased with what we are seeing from that standpoint so far.
As Robert said on lowes.com we grew roughly 20% in the quarter and I think that continues to be driven by several factors and one of the most being the new innovation that we're putting on the side itself.
When you look at what we've been able to do in the last first half of the year the patio configuration tool you know we talk about accessories helping the seasonal living categories in the quarter.
There is no doubt that that tool is really helping us from the dotcom standpoint.
I think you look at what we've done to really be able to show product differently on the site we've increased the number of 360 degree product views.
Another 3500 items were added during the quarter in Q2 gives us up to roughly 15 000 items we were able to spin the view of that category.
Product videos we talked about how increasingly the appliance shopper is going to dotcom first to evaluate product categories.
We added another 200 videos into that category during the quarter; added 4 000 enhanced images and pictures to the site as well introduced the search engine capabilities that we're looking at more intuitive search.
And so as a result of that we saw traffic to lowes.com increased 19% for the quarter and we saw a slight increase in conversion as well.
So when you look at the holistic aspect of the dotcom platform we feel very good with the innovations we have added with the technology improvements that we've made.
Like I said earlier with lowesforpros we are very pleased with what we we're saying there.
We've actually seen a double-digit increase in new customers to Lowe's that are on the site that had not previously shopped with us before which is very exciting when we think through the rollout of the site itself.
And that would take dotcom up to about 3% of the business.
Is my guesstimate right there? So Greg it's about 3% of our business now.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Hi thanks Greg.
Thanks.
And as always thanks for your continued interest in Lowe's.
We look forward to speaking with you again when we report our third quarter results on Wednesday November 18th.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Lowe's Companies third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Also supplemental reference slides are available on Lowe's Investor Relations website within the investor packet.
While management will not be speaking directly to the slides these slides are meant to facilitate your review of the company's results and to be used as a reference document following the call.
During this call management will be using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The supplemental reference slides include information about these measures and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management's expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
Those risks are described in the company's earnings release and in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Hosting today's conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Mr.
Rick Damron Chief Operating Officer; and Mr.
Bob Hull Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the program over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in Lowe's.
I'm pleased that we delivered another solid quarter with comparable sales growth of 4.6% or 9.7% on a two-year basis.
Our comp growth was balanced with a 2.5% increase in comp transactions and a 2% increase in average ticket.
Our U.S.
home improvement business achieved 5% comps for the quarter with all 14 regions generating positive comps.
While our businesses in Canada and Mexico delivered high-single digit comps in local currency our consolidated comp was negatively impacted by foreign currency translation.
We generated positive comps in 12 of 13 product categories with outdoor power equipment delivering flat comps on top of double-digit comps last year.
We had strength in seasonal living as customers took the opportunity to extend the outdoor season driven by warmer and drier weather early in the quarter.
Tools and hardware also performed well.
As both Pro and DIY customers responded to the improvements we continue to making our assortment further enhanced by exciting homes-center exclusives.
And our strong brand and service advantages in appliances continue to drive double-digit comps in the category for the fourth quarter in a row.
Lastly our Pro business also performed well as we continue to build deeper relationships with Pro by enhancing our product and service offering to meet their unique needs.
For the quarter gross margin expanded 26 basis points and we effectively controlled expenses delivering 130 basis points of operating margin expansion and earnings per share of $0.80 a 36% increase over last year's third quarter.
Delivering our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders in the quarter we repurchased $750 million of stock under our share repurchase program and paid $260 million in dividends.
We've been working to improve our product and service offering for the Pro customer and differentiating ourselves to better customer experiences that make us the project authority.
And we continue to enhance our omni-channel capabilities transforming our brand from a multichannel offering in-store digital in-home and by phone to an omni-channel experience where all of our channels work in concert with one another.
To clarify this transformation is about much more than growing our e-commerce business.
Our efforts are centered around supporting customers at every step of the home improvement journey and building greater affinity for the Lowe's brand.
I'm particularly encouraged by the momentum we're gaining through increased engagement with our in-home selling efforts.
During the third quarter we expanded our project specialist interiors program to an additional 475 stores and now offer the program in 1 365 stores across the country.
Coupled with our project specialist exteriors program which is available at all U.S.
home improvement stores and our highly motivated team of account executive Pro services who continue strengthen relationships with regional Pro customers we have a strong outside selling force of more than 3 000 people who are able to meet customers on their terms either in their home or at their place of business.
The execution of our strategic priorities alongside a favorable macroeconomic backdrop make this an exciting time for Lowe's.
In fact the forecast for key drivers of the home improvement industry remain conducive for growth at least through 2017.
Steady job and income gains coupled with persistent home price appreciation and strengthening home buying should keep home improvement growth buoyant.
We continue to be pleased with the results of our quarterly consumer sentiment surveys.
Most encouraging this quarter is the desire to invest in home continues to grow as survey respondents are indicating that growth in their home improvement spending is outpacing increases in their overall spending.
In fact the number of homeowners indicating that their home improvement spending increase has almost doubled since 2012 boosted by the persisting recovery in home prices.
This trend underscores the opportunity we have to address the needs of 75 million homeowners across the country who are increasingly willing to engage in home improvement projects in addition to the 5 million who relocate or move into a new home each year.
Before I close I'd like to express my appreciation for our employees' purposeful commitment to serving customers.
In particular I'd like to thank those Lowe's team members who worked diligently to assist our neighbors that were impacted by the historic flooding in South Carolina.
In addition to working round the clock to ensure our stores and the affected communities were able to provide products needed for storm recovery efforts many of our employees also pledged their time to help individuals in need.
Thanks again for you interest.
And with that let me turn the call over to Rick.
Thanks Robert and good morning.
As Robert shared with you we delivered another solid quarter.
The team executed well driving traffic to our stores growing both transactions and average ticket for the quarter.
Our appliance category experienced the strongest growth in the quarter producing double-digit comps.
In addition to our leading brands and service advantages in this category our investments in customer experience are also having an impact both in-store and online.
We have further enhanced our appliance offering with the introduction of 17-appliance suites showcasing coordinated appliances; allowing customers to visualize how their appliance purchase will fit into their space not just as a single replacement purchase but as a full set of new appliances.
And because we understand that more than 80% of customers begin their appliance purchase by researching and shopping online we have enhanced our customer experience and presentation on lowes.com including improved product search enhanced videos upgraded presentation like 360-degree view and simplified product groupings.
In fact J.
D.
Power and Associates rank lowes.com the number one appliance retailer website for 2015.
Our continued focus on improving the omni-channel customer experience together with leading brands breadth of assortment competitive pricing knowledgeable sales specialist as well as delivery and haul away combine to drive our share gains in appliances.
Seasonal living also outperformed as we effectively anticipated customer needs and capitalized on favorable weather conditions.
Warmer weather in the north and west in the first half of the quarter drove strong demand for air conditioners and we were able to meet that demand.
Thanks to the flexibility and capabilities of our distribution teams as they worked efficiently to move product.
Further our customer experience design capabilities continued to pay dividends.
These capabilities were first introduced with the outdoor living experience showcasing patio and outdoor fashion which recorded strong comps again this quarter.
Along with the strong sales of patio furniture we continue to see an increase in attachment of related products such as cushions and other outdoor accessories.
Our customer experience design capabilities take advantage of our larger store format to produce a showroom feel and create a more shoppable environment which drives higher customer engagement and stronger attachment rates.
The layout and adjacencies also make it easier for store associates to offer a more coordinated project solution to meet customer needs.
As we transition to fall we leverage this capability to create a seasonal stage to anticipate customer needs for the season like planting leaf removal and exterior maintenance.
And as winter arise we will continue to leverage this capability in seasonal stage to help customers refresh their homes for holiday guest decorate then organize their home after the holidays.
This quarter we also saw above-average comps in tools and the hardware driven by strong demand as well as our expanded offering including continued innovation from brands such as Stanley Black &amp; Decker Hitachi Bosch DEWALT Lenox and Irwin and improved brand relevance in critical categories like pneumatics with our expanded line of Hitachi pneumatic nailers and fasteners a home channel exclusive to Lowe's.
We recently completed the reset of our pneumatics destination featuring the three strongest brands in the category Hitachi Bostitch and Paslode.
Our pneumatic brand partnerships make us a clear destination for Pros and create opportunities to be more relevant to their business.
Our paint performance was in line with the industry with a low-single digit comp.
With our launch of HGTV HOME by Sherwin-Williams at the beginning of the second quarter we are now providing our customers with top brands they trust for their next paint project.
Olympic provides quality at a lower price and easy application Valspar specializes in color authority with their Love Your Color Guarantee and HGTV HOME by Sherwin-Williams provides a strong brand recognition designer coordinated colors and quality customers' trust.
Paint employees are now able to meet the needs of both DIY and Pro customers who've been shopping us for paint sundries and requesting Sherwin-Williams.
We also continue to see strength in our portfolio of Pro-focused brands.
In addition to the brands we rolled out in the first half of the year including Goldblatt masonry tools GAF Roofing Owens Corning Insulation and Lenox HVAC.
We are proud to introduce Masonite entry and interior doors offering a key brand that Pros know and trust.
These new brands continue to build a momentum with the Pro customer and also represent the powerful partnership between our Pros services and merchandising teams as we work together to incorporate Pro feedback into a better offering and experience.
This commitment is also evident in the assignment of field base merchandising managers who are working closely with the Pro customer to identify local market opportunities and introduce products optimized to local norms to be more relevant with the Pro.
Along with strengthening our brand portfolio we re-launched lowesforpros.com at the beginning of the second quarter making it easy for Pros to manage multiple properties and purchase items like appliances for their locations nationwide.
This full omni-channel experience allows Pros to easily order online and choose their preferred fulfillment option of parcel store pickup or store delivery saving them time and money.
We are also reconnecting with Pros who have not recently purchased from Lowe's to show them what's changed in our stores and online.
We're using targeted marketing as well as Pro-focused events to drive awareness and generate new business.
For example September was Pro Appreciation month.
During the event we offered vendor demonstrations special values on core Pro products throughout the store and drove awareness of the support we provide like jobsite delivery and credit offers.
Our focus on strengthening our portfolio of brands serving Pro customers through our Account Executive Pro Services team as well as the recent re-launch of lowesforpros.com are part of a broader commitment to build on our strong foundation with the Pro.
In addition to our efforts to drive topline growth we continue to focus on driving productivity and profitability.
During the third quarter our store teams once again effectively managed payroll increasing sales per hour in line with comps.
We continue to leverage our prior investments optimizing store labor to meet customer demand and continuing to focus on shifting more hours to customer facing roles.
Most importantly we have achieved this greater payroll efficiency by improving customer satisfaction scores.
We also drove productivity and marketing by using a robust set of analytic tools to optimize our media allocation leading to a reduction in print advertising and increase in digital advertising and an expansion of social media increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of our media buy and improving our advertising spend all while maintaining our customer reach and improving exposure.
While we have already seen positive results from this work media optimization is a multiyear effort and opportunity.
We also continue to identify and implement additional expense efficiencies by consolidating the procurement of similar types of goods and services across our corporate and store functions.
For example this year we have worked cross-functionally to streamline the procurement process for suppliers used across our stores distribution centers and our corporate office.
Early results are favorable with savings across multiple lines.
We have also worked to increase profitability for the services we offer without impacting the customer experience.
For example as part of our appliance offering we provide service advantages such as free delivery and haul-away.
This year as part of our appliance recycling program we work directly with end recyclers to increase recycling income despite the decline in the metals commodity market.
As you can see we are pleased with the third quarter results and the continued progress of our initiatives to grab topline growth productivity and profitability.
We look forward to sharing further progress with you over the coming quarters.
Thank you for your interest in Lowe's.
And I will now turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
Sales for the third quarter were $14.4 billion an increase of 5% driven primarily by top sales.
Total customer transactions increased 2.8% and total average ticket decreased 2.1% to $67.34.
For the quarter comp sales were 4.6% as comp transactions grew 2.5% and comp average ticket increased 2%.
The monthly comps were 5.1% in August 4.8% in September and 3.7% in October while the monthly two-year stack accelerated through the quarter.
Year-to-date sales of $45.8 billion were up 4.9% versus the first three quarters of 2014 driven by a 4.6% increase in comp sales and new stores.
Gross margin for the third quarter was 34.75% of sales which increased 26 basis points over Q3 last year.
The increase was driven primarily by better sell-through of seasonal products and product cost deflation.
Year-to-date gross margin was 34.87% of sales an increase of 5 basis points over last year.
SG&amp;A for Q3 was 22.89% of sales which leveraged 91 basis points driven primarily by four items.
Advertising expense leveraged 17 basis points as we transition to a more efficient and effective media mix.
The proprietary credit program leveraged 16 basis points due to continued growth in the program and lower operating cost.
Cost associated with building maintenance and repairs leveraged 15 basis points largely due to the timing of projects as more of them occurred in the first half of the year versus last year.
Store payroll leverage 13 basis points as we continue to optimize hours against customer traffic.
Numerous other expense lines also leveraged as a result of sales growth.
Year-to-date SG&amp;A was 22.55% sales which leveraged 60 basis points versus last year.
Depreciation for the quarter was $375 million which was 2.61% of sales and leveraged 13 basis points compared to last year's third quarter as a result of sales growth.
In Q3 earnings before interests and taxes or EBIT margin increased 130 basis points to 9.25% of sales.
For the first three quarters of 2015 EBIT margin was 9.89% of sales which was 79 basis points higher than the same period last year.
For the quarter interest expense was $141 million which was flat to last year as a percent of sales.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 38%.
Net earnings were $736 million for the quarter an increase of 25.8% over Q3 2014.
Earnings per share of $0.80 for the third quarter were up 35.6% to last year.
For the first nine months of 2015 earnings per share of $2.70 was in line with our expectations and represented a 20.5% increase over the same period last year.
Now to a few items on the balance sheet starting with assets.
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the quarter was just over $1.2 billion.
Our inventory balance of $10.4 billion increased $672 million or 6.9% versus Q3 last year.
The increase was driven by timing associated with seasonal builds.
Inventory turnover was 3.85 of 12 basis points over last year.
Asset turnover increased 10 basis points to 1.75.
Moving on to liabilities accounts payable of $7.3 billion represented a 15.6% increase over Q3 last year caused by the timing of purchases year-over-year.
In the third quarter we issued $1.75 billion of unsecured bonds.
The bonds consisted of three 10 and 30 year of issuances with the weighted average interest rate of 3.45%.
A portion of the proceeds was used to repay a $500 million obligation in October.
At the end of third quarter lease adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR was 2.17x.
Return on invested capital increased 276 basis points for the quarter to 15.78%.
Now looking at the statement of cash flows.
Operating cash flow was $4.5 billion.
Capital expenditures was $844 million resulting in year-to-date free cash flow of $3.7 billion.
In September we entered into a $500 million accelerated share repurchase agreement.
We expect to receive approximately 7.3 million shares but the ultimate number of shares will be determined upon completion of the program in the fourth quarter.
We also repurchased approximately 3.5 million shares for $250 million through the open market.
In total we repurchased $750 million in the quarter with approximately $4.1 billion remaining under share repurchase authorization.
Looking ahead I'd like to address several of the items detailed in Lowe's business outlook.
As Robert noted the forecast for key drivers of home improvement industry remain conducive for growth.
And as our year-to-date performance is in line with our expectations we're maintaining our outlook for the year.
We expect the total sales increase of approximately 4.5% to 5% driven by the comp sales increase of 4% to 4.5% and the addition of 15 to 20 stores which includes five Orchard and two City Center locations.
We're anticipating an EBIT increase of 80 to 100 basis points and are targeting 25 to 30 basis points of EBIT expansion per point of comp above 1%.
While this is our expectation for the year as we have seen there will be some choppiness quarter-to-quarter.
For the year we expect that most of the EBIT improvement will come from SG&amp;A.
Expense leverage will come from store payroll marketing and leveraging our scale to achieve cost savings on indirect spend.
In addition we expect fixed cost leverage associated with sales growth.
The effective tax rate is expected to be 38.1%.
The higher rate relative to 2014 is a result of a settlement of prior tax matters recognized in Q1 2014.
The higher rate negatively impacts earnings growth by roughly $0.06 per share.
For the year we expect earnings per share of approximately $3.29 which represents an increase of 21.4% over 2014.
We are forecasting cash flow from operations of approximately $5 billion.
Our capital forecast is approximately $1.3 billion which results in estimated free cash flow of $3.7 billion.
We will continue to manage to the 2.25 lease-adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR target.
Our guidance assumes approximately $3.8 billion in share repurchases for 2015.
Regina we're now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Simeon Gutman with Morgan Stanley.
So first question I think it could be a key question of the quarter is the flow-through which was a welcome improvement.
My question is on the sustainability of it.
You've been discussing it especially in the back half some indirect expenses coming out of the business and I think Q4 also screens pretty well for it.
So as we head into Q4 into next year any reason why we shouldn't see this type of incremental margins continue? So Simeon no.
As we think about Q4 the drivers that came to fruition in Q3 should remain for Q4.
I would say our outlook is 25 basis points to 30 basis points of EBIT expansion per point comp above 1%.
Q4 we'll have tougher comparison going up against a 7.3% comp for Q4 last year.
So the EBIT expansion will be largely determined based on the comp growth in the quarter.
But the fact that it drove the 130 basis points in Q3 should remain going forward.
Just as we indicated throughout the year this year as we've had our quarterly earnings releases we give guidance for the year with flow-through but there can always be choppiness quarter-to-quarter like you've seen this year.
But on an annual basis it's basically what Bob has told you from a guidance standpoint.
And then second the follow-up you mentioned the consumer sentiment survey that the growth in home improvement is outpacing spending.
Do you have additional context on that? Is the rate of what they're going to spend in home improvement how is that changing? Simeon as we survey our customers and what they tell us for their intentions with respect to spending and we look at overall their level of spending is not increasing.
But the amount that they're allocating to home improvement they are indicating that they're spending more in home improvement then obviously how much of that winds up in our channels which you have to look at.
But it was a significant increase over what we had seen last year in the third quarter.
And as you know sentiment doesn't always turn to action so it's a leading indicator.
So we think that if you look at what's happening in the overall macro environment when you look at what's happening with home prices it once again speaks for the fact that consumers are reengaging in discretionary spending around the home.
And so when see them leaning that way it gives us confidence and all the numbers that are built into our outlook for the remainder of this year and also as we lean into 2016.
But we did see a nice pickup in what their intentions were.
And then the survey does this push into your 2017 I guess your outlook or is there other factors at more of a macro look? They're the same factors that we used to provide [ph] 2017 outlook at the analyst conference last year obviously the drivers of our business income and housing right.
So as we think about more people working and starting to see some wage appreciation those are positive factors.
And then on the housing front housing turnover continues to pick up when we see ongoing home price appreciation so all the macro factors that drive our industry continue to line up for sustained growth through 2017.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
My first question relates to inventory if you could just give us a little more clarity about the increase which was a bit of a departure for you? And also whether or how we should think about the relationship between that inventory number and your gross margin equities if any? The 6.9% increase in inventory reflects our preparation for our Q4 events coming up as well as being in stock on some critical items that our customers deem to be most relevant.
So the increase is really driven by timing associated with getting the inventory in for our events for Q4.
Looking forward as we look into the yearend inventory in Q4 we expect our inventory levels to be marginally higher but this is being primarily driven by the timing of Chinese New Year which is roughly 11 days earlier this year than last which puts some order purchases earlier in the cycle for their seasonal build for 2016.
But when you look at the number in totality it's really driven by our preparation for Q4.
Matt the second part of your question related to gross margin we don't see any gross margin pressure.
As Rick said this is inventory purchased for anticipated sales in the quarter.
It's non-perishable product.
And the other item I would add is really no working capital impact as we've seen a corresponding increase in accounts payable.
And just a quick follow-up.
You did everything you said you would do on the margin and expense front in the third quarter.
In the fourth quarter you certainly need to do it again.
I know that the drivers of expense leverage were pretty diverse again from a bunch of different places.
As we think about the fourth quarter drivers anything you would point to in particular? That really is the same drivers.
So we should see some again modest gross margin expansion.
We'll see leverage in credit in in bonus in advertising in store payroll.
So all the factors that drove Q3 should again drive operating margin expansion in Q4.
The next question comes from the line of Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
I was wondering can you talk a little bit about the Pro marketing efforts in the second half.
I know you mentioned September being the Pro appreciation month.
You've done a lot of work to kind of get the foundation in place to survey the Pro better.
Can you talk about or give us a sense of how you're going to be speaking to the Pro more aggressively over the next several quarters? As we think about the Pro we continue to leverage our account executive Pro services teams to meet with Pros on their job sites to really understand what their needs and where they're moving.
We're continuing to leverage our in-store teams and our account management processes to make sure that we're communicating effectively around the relevant products for the particular time of the year to particular jobs they're working on.
And then from a mix perspective most of our Pro marketing is really targeted messaging from a direct communication standpoint to targeted messaging through email or radio.
So we'll continue to build upon what we've done over the last several quarters leveraging both our field teams as well as our marketing programs to communicate effectively with the Pro.
And just to build on that you'll see us leverage some of our digital assets as well.
So we talked quite extensively about lowesforpros.com that gives us ability to reach the Pros and see some of our more creative online techniques to get the right promotion in front of pro at the right time.
As we continue to migrate more towards digital away from print with pros you'll see us take a slightly different balance where we'll use some print to talk to them as well.
I think the key is that what we've done is we may consider effort to make sure we had the right brand that pros need and now we're starting to reach out to those pros much more efficiently and effectively so we can get the right promotion along with those brands in front of the pros.
And then just maybe a follow-up for Bob the 2.25 leverage target I know you've been operating below that to a degree.
I mean it sounds like your view on the macro continues to kind of get better.
What conditions do you think need to be in place for you to kind of get to that 2.25 level if you can share that? So it's a couple of things Pete.
So it's a matter of forecasting.
Number one we were at 2.17x in Q3 so not too far off.
As we think about the fourth quarter we've got perspective on sales and profitability perspective on working capital.
It's just a matter of how close do we want to balance the borrowing at yearend relative to our expectation.
So I would expect us to be somewhere in the 2.15x to 2.25x range at yearend.
Your next question comes from the line of Christopher Horvers with JPMorgan.
So store payroll leverage showed some very nice improvement from 2Q.
Can you talk about what's driving that overall? Is there something more systematic going around labor management system is it process improvement is it focus any detail there would be great? As we continue to look at store labor we've talked about the tools that we've deployed to help our store teams and our field teams manage our labor more to customer traffic.
So we're continuing to see those tools pay dividends for us as we continue to match our hours more to traffic.
We continually focus on making sure that we're doing everything possible to increase our customer facing roles most of that is through process improvement as well as the utilization of technology within the stores making it simpler for our employees to engage with the customer and improving our processes that make it easier for them to interact both with the customers as well as through the tasking process that we have within our stores.
Chris one of the things to give you an example is something that seem simple that can have a significant impact is we're now leveraging one of the tools that we used in our stores which is the way finding app on our digital platforms.
And now we incorporate that information on every product label for every item shipped from our distribution center.
So when that package arrives it will tell the employee the exact aisle and bay location that product's stocked.
So as you can imagine tremendous efficiency for newer employees and try to manage and navigate our stores makes the whole process much more effective much more efficient.
We transferred several of our processes that were manual paper-driven processes to more technology-driven leveraging the iPhones and the iPads that we've deployed into our stores to make them more efficient.
So what you're seeing is an accumulation of better tools to drive greater payroll efficiency the continued focus on making sure that we're leveraging employee hours to customer traffic and then the continued work to drive greater productivity through the tools that we provide our employees.
And so do you think because it was a lot better in 3Q versus 2Q do you think that this is the inflection that it's really gelled around the payroll management process as you look forward? Yes.
As we continue to look forward I think we'll continue to see solid payroll efficiency.
And one of the questions that we're getting is the performance in October and how to interpret the deceleration to your stack to accelerate and they didn't look very strong but if we held stacks in the 4Q it would suggest comps decelerated about 200 basis points.
So anything to point out there around October and your thoughts about the current quarter? So Chris in the quarter weather had no net impact to the three month period.
We did have favorable weather in the first part of the quarter little tougher weather towards the end of the quarter.
Second as you suggest we did see two year stack acceleration throughout the quarter so we feel really good about our ability to deliver comp-on-comp.
As we look to 4Q we would expect further acceleration on a two year basis into Q4.
As it relates to November to date we were in line with our expectations and we're really excited about Q4.
Your next question comes from the line of Laura Champine with Cantor Fitzgerald.
You did a good job of expanding gross margin despite such strength in the appliances which is typically a lower margin category.
What is your expectation in Q4 for the mix's impact on your gross margins? So mix should have a negative impact.
As Rick noted we're now into four straight quarters of double-digits appliance comps.
So we've cycled some tougher compares although appliances continue to perform well.
So mix should be little bit less pressured in Q4 and going forward for that matter.
Your next question comes from the line of David Schick with Stifel.
Rick a question for you or maybe Rick and Mike.
You're talking about sitting down with a Pro and the merchandising changes and all of that.
Where do you think the balance of the opportunity is in the Pro? Is it Pros you already have spending more or is it Pros you're not reaching? And if so where are they coming from? I'll start.
We think the answer is yes.
We think it's the Pros that we already have spending more and we know that there are Pros today that drive past us to go some place else and we know we can do a better job at bringing them into our stores.
And so we started by ensuring that we have the right inventory depth the right brands the right local market assortment.
And as that was corrected we feel we're comfortable about where we are.
From there we started to turn on our marketing so that we can start to invite those Pros back in.
So we're excited about both the Pros we have.
It's still big part of our business.
And we're excited about the Pros that historically have purchased some place else that now can come in and try to experience at Lowe's.
I'll just add when we look at the Pro in general we're very excited about what we're seeing from both a transaction point of view and a comp across all ticket ranges.
So when you look at comps by ticket size and the way that we evaluate those we're seeing positive growth across all tickets which is telling us that we're getting some new accounts in but we're also selling our existing accounts more.
The other thing through our Pro Appreciation events and what we're doing to really target Pros through the new brands the increased inventory depth and our five ways to save value propositions we're doing we saw a strong double-digit growth in new accounts during Q3 as well.
So I think that also goes to support the fact that we're becoming more relevant that the brands that we're introducing have increased awareness with the Pro and given the aspects of services that we're providing is beginning to resonate as well.
As a follow-up Bob you mentioned more efficient and effective media mix.
Understand I think the efficient side could you give numbers on effective in terms of how many you're reaching or some way for us to think about that? So I'll start and Mike jump in.
So Dave we're doing some media mix modeling so we're trying to understand the impact of different mediums on different markets and we're adjusting accordingly.
So ultimately we're taking the most effective yields which is the sales dollar yielded for a dollar of marketing spent.
We have shifted some as Rick mentioned in his prepared comments we've shifted some dollars away from prints towards more digital assets.
We're able to reach more folks on a very cost effective way which gets into the effectiveness and efficiency of marketing.
And just to build on it if you look at the way we've remixed our advertising and marketing spend we're moving more towards digital more towards social media and less out of some of the more traditional one advertising vehicles.
I'll give you some numbers a way to think about this.
Just looking at social media Lowe's followers on Facebook are over 3 million Pinterest just about 3.5 million followers Lowe's video views well over 70 million.
So we see a one of easiest ways to track is just watch our activity on social media.
Our digital footprint is very very large and we continue to increase it.
So we're quite proud of the work that's happened there.
Your next question comes from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
This is David Vargas on for Budd.
On the Pro business can you tell me what the Pro penetration was this year versus last year? And also what categories within Pro saw the strongest comp sales growth? David the Pro isn't and exact science.
We have some correct measurements of them relative to managed accounts and credit vehicles.
There's some imprecise measures.
Currently the Pro mix is about 30%.
In the past three quarters it's grown in line with the company average.
The fourth quarter last year was a little bit faster so that would suggest it migrated from a little bit higher in that 30% range.
And then what categories did you see the strongest growth in year-over-year? In fact a couple actually.
I'll pick on tools where we've really worked diligently to get the right brands.
So we've added brands like Irwin Lenox.
We've added Hitachi.
We've added Goldblatt as an example.
You couple that with brands like DEWALT Kobalt Porter-Cable Bosch.
We saw a double-digit growth in pneumatics.
We saw a very strong growth in cordless power tools accessories and rotary tools.
And we watched tools in particularly because it's a good indicator of how well we're engaging the Pros.
And this isn't just adding brands by happenstance.
If you look at the way we've added brands around pneumatics we've added Hitachi to complement our offering in Bostitch and Paslode.
So we have the three best brands in pneumatics.
If you want to buy pneumatics as a Pro we feel that Lowe's is certainly the best place to come.
So we look at each category.
We strategically decide how to best serve the Pros.
We build brands that complement one another.
And from there we increase our relevant engagement with the Pro.
But certainly we saw it in tools.
We see it across the stores to continue to grow our Pro business.
And then finally one more question on just the consumer in general.
What are you seeing this year versus last year in terms of customer spend on large ticket discretionary like kitchen remodel bathroom remodel? And are they moving towards more that discretionary spend from I guess general maintenance and repair of large ticket items? I'll start.
This is Robert and then I'll let the other guys finish.
Certainly when we look at consumers discretionary versus non-discretionary spend we're seeing that when you combine small and large discretionary spend what they're telling us that more than 50% of their spend is on a discretionary basis which is if you strip that from where it would have been prior year so we're seeing it move above that 50% level.
When you look at and we talked about appliances being double-digit comps for the quarter we've talked about some of the projects spending and initiatives that we're putting behind whether that's project specialists interiors which is major interior remodels or project specialists exteriors which is the exterior programs we do fencing siding new windows those types of things both of those programs had double-digit comps in the quarter.
So appliances PSI/PSE all running double-digit comps in the quarter.
So we are seeing that consumer take on that willingness to spend around the home on discretionary projects driven by as I said in my comments macro factors as well as continued comfort that comes from home price appreciation that they're seeing.
The other item I would add in addition to Robert's comments is if you take a look at tickets above $500 comps at 7.2% so we continue to see strong growth in the big ticket categories.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Baker with Deutsche Bank.
It looks like we're getting towards the end with one bigger picture question.
This is for Mr.
Niblock.
You're still a couple of hundred basis points away from your peak operating margin.
But I think as you guys like to say you have a line of sight to it.
When you start to get to that double-digit operating margin how do you think about balancing further margin gains with some topline initiatives? Ever so subtly you're increasing your store count growth in other regions in other formats your competitors just made an acquisition how do you think about maybe some new topline growth initiatives to balance that margin gain? It's a great question Mike.
When you think about it from where we had peak our operating margins previously to where we're at today and trying to run back in on that we really are a totally different company.
If you think about back in those days it was single channel and we want to wrap it expansion of the store footprint.
We think the store is still the nucleus of our relationship with the customer but the store in and of itself is not enough.
We really have to be there on an omni-channel basis for the customer.
So that's why everything we've been investing in for the past few years is really to be able to deliver that omni-channel offering so that we take those stores we continue to build on those leverage the PSI/PSE programs that we just talked about whether it's the improvements that we've made on dotcom whether it's all the improvements that we've made with the Pro customers to really get us back to the point where then we can look at other opportunities to try and grow that topline.
So certainly we expect to continue to have our operating margin improvement continue to have nice flow-through to drive our comps sales improving like the guidance that we've given you.
But we will continue to look at how there are other opportunities as the consumer changes the way the consumer wants to interact with us changes what are the other opportunities where we can do things that will continue to allow us to pursue opportunities for growth particularly in a recovering market and the affinity that we're seeing with the consumer around investing in the home.
So whether it's stuff like lowesforpros.com that we invested in because we know that that's a key gap that we had there whether it's flowing out the additional PSI programs like we added this quarter in the store you'll see us looking at ways that we can continue to make sure that we're responding to where the customer wants to go.
And whatever that ends up being we'll end up evaluating that but also using the base of stores we have to continue to drive nice flow-through.
One follow-up on the previous question you had said that now more than 50% of spend as you talk to your customers is discretionary.
Can you tell us where that was at a peak probably in 2006 or 2007 and where it troughed out when housing crashed? I don't know.
I don't have the numbers back before the peak as to the exact numbers as to where it was at.
That would be back in the 2009.
2009 is when we started the survey.
2009 is when we started the survey is Bob saying.
So we don't have the numbers back before the decline.
So what we are seeing is a greater proportion of customers telling us they're leading into the big ticket discretionary from smaller ticket discretionary.
As you think about greater consumer sentiment and confidence around the personal job situation there is home appreciation.
They are staring to think about these bigger ticket discretionary projects.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lasser with UBS.
So how do we think about the underperformance or the below average comp in categories like kitchen millwork flooring in light of your commentary about the success of the project given your specialist program? The categories were below average but driven largely by the strength in appliances and in seasonal living.
We had a couple of categories like millwork and OPE that were up again significant comps well into the double-digit comps last year same time.
So I think the consumer sentiment survey is probably a better indicator.
They are looking at the distribution of our above average and below average.
Just keep in mind that all of our categories are positive with the exception of OPE which was about flat.
So again we're pretty encouraged by what we see both on the big ticket as well as on the transaction side of our business.
And then if we assume that those two categories added about 100 basis points to your overall comp do you think that the market in the areas surrounding your store for categories like kitchen flooring appliance millwork is growing in the 3% to 4% range? I can say that the categories that you asked about did comp into 3% to 4% range.
As Mike said they were positive but they were below the company average based on the strength of the appliance and seasonal living businesses.
Is that the rate of growth you would expect at this point in the cycle for those category? So the market specific growth is based on the state of the economy and housing in those markets.
So the factors that drive the macro Lowe's business also drive each individual market housing and incomes in those markets some higher some lower telling where they are in the housing cycle.
My last question is and sorry to picking all the other categories but paint has been below the company average for five quarters in a row despite the launch of some new products within the category.
Can you talk about the reason for the underperformance especially because pain is category that's attached to a lot of other home improvement products whether it's inside or outside of a house? The paint industry in total is below the average.
And so our paint performance is about in line with the industry.
I'd say we're not satisfied with that.
We want our paint performance to be above the industry as are most of our other business units.
That's how we're seeing good momentum with HGTV by Sherwin-Williams.
We've got a great relationship with Valspar.
And PPG with the Olympic brands we've leaned pretty heavy into some promotions around paint as I'm sure you've seen.
Our overall promotional cadence year-over-year is about the same but we did redirect a little more towards paint and we're pretty excited about our paint lineup.
But that said the industry is below the average and we're at above average pre-industry.
Your next question comes from the line of Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
I actually have another SG&amp;A follow-up.
I mean obviously you guys had very strong leverage in the quarter.
You talked about that continuing going forward.
But looking at the data a little bit differently you generally have been posting SG&amp;A per store growth about 2% to 3% unless comps were call it sub-1%.
This quarter it was only about 50 basis points on a very strong mid-single digit comp.
Can you help us better understand what changed in the expense growth rate? Is it you just don't have to spend anymore on labor and you kind of topped out? Is it advertising flattening out? Is it reduced losses on international ops? I guess I just want to understand kind of what's changing that run rate and how we should think about that going forward? So we talked about the choppiness quarter-to-quarter and the flow-through.
There's a variety of factors.
Performance related to plan drives those accruals year-over-year.
The nature of the credit program as we think about portfolio performance loan loss reserves that's driving some expense leverage second half of this year relative to first half.
As I mentioned in my comments regarding building repairs and maintenance our plan is more front-half loaded therefore we're getting a leverage based on the timing of projects year-over-year.
So there's a variety of factors that contribute to move in year-over-year.
I think that if I had to leave you with a punch line you heard us talk about steps we're taking in payroll in advertising in direct spend that are sustainable will drive benefit through 2015 into 2016.
So our run rate Rob is it something between kind of what we saw in terms of SG&amp;A actual growth is it something between what we saw in the first half and third quarter because of kind of the timing differences or when we kind of think about the longer term model? What's the right way to think about it? So for 2015 SG&amp;A grows at roughly 46% of the rate of sales growth.
I think something close to that 50% is probably right way to think about it.
And then just hopefully a clarification.
There is a bunch of questions on Pro sales and ticket size.
When you guys look at your ticket size buckets the strongest growth continues to be in those higher ticket transactions over $500.
Is it fair to assume that it's primarily driven by Pro customers or is it kind of more of a 50-50 deal between Pro and DIY because of appliances another high ticket items specifically within that over $500 bucket? So as you think about the mix of our business it's 70% DIY 30% Pro.
However the Pro ticket is larger than DIY to Pro.
So the driver of the big ticket is probably going to be closer to 60% 40% DIY to Pro.
Your next question comes from the line of Seth Basham with Wedbush Securities.
My question is around close rates.
You guys have talked in the past about how you've done with close rates given the fact that you're optimizing in labor.
Any update there on how close rates and customer satisfaction is proceeding here? So Rick talked about customer satisfaction.
We continue to see very strong customer sat results through our customer focus program.
And as you think about close rates we've done a lot of things to address all potential factors that might impact close rate both the quality and quantity of the labor the depth of inventory the local assorting.
Rick mentioned way finding which is the ability to navigate our store so a lot of good steps we've taken.
As a result we're seeing roughly 100 basis points improvement in close rate this year relative to last year.
As a follow-up just to tie the knot on the near term outlook comp store sale trends accelerated throughout the third quarter to a 6.6% comp in October 11% on to your stack.
How do you think about the fourth quarter? I mean can you hold that 11% to your stack right? That's the expectation.
So we've seen good sequential progress through the quarters.
We saw sequential progress through the months of Q3.
As Robert talked about in his comments good momentum as it relates to the consumer and drivers of our industry.
And each day our execution continues to improve so we feel good about the ability to drive and achieve or exceed the outlook we put forward for the year.
End of Q&amp;A Thanks.
And as always thanks for your continued interest in Lowe's.
We look forward to speaking with you again when we report our fourth quarter results on Wednesday February 24.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Lowe's Companies Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Also supplemental reference slides are available on Lowe's' Investor Relations website within the investor packet.
While management will not be speaking directly to the slides these slides are meant to facilitate your review of the company's results and to be used as a reference document following the call.
During this call management will be using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The supplemental reference slides include information about these measures and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Statements made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management's expectations and opinions reflected in those statements are subject to risks and the company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
These risks are described in the company's earnings release and in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Hosting today's conference will be Mr.
Robert Niblock Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Mr.
Rick Damron Chief Operating Officer; and Mr.
Bob Hull Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the program over to Mr.
Niblock for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for your interest in Lowe's.
I'm pleased that we delivered another strong quarter with comparable sales growth of 7.3%.
Comp growth was driven by a 4.9% increase in comp average ticket and a 2.3% increase in comp transactions.
The mix of comp ticket and comp transactions was consistent with our expectations.
Comparable sales growth for our U.S.
business was 7.4% for the quarter.
We saw balanced performance across the country again this quarter with all 3 divisions the North South and West generating comps within a tight range.
In fact all 14 regions had comps greater than 5%.
Likewise we reported positive comps in all 12 product categories and our ProServices business continued its strong performance with comp sales in line with the company average during the quarter.
I'm also pleased to share that our team in Canada delivered double-digit comps in local currency for the seventh consecutive quarter.
We remain focused on improving our profitability even while investing in key capabilities to drive sales growth.
For the quarter we drove 115 basis points of operating margin expansion and earnings per share of $0.46 a 59% increase over last year's fourth quarter.
For the year we delivered comparable sales growth of 4.3% and earnings per share of $2.71 a 27% increase over fiscal 2013.
Delivering on our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders in the quarter we repurchased $1 billion of stock under our share repurchase program and paid $225 million in dividends.
For the year we repurchased $3.9 billion of stock and paid $822 million in dividends.
As we head into fiscal 2015 macroeconomic fundamentals are aligned for modestly stronger home improvement industry growth.
Jobs incomes household financial conditions are expected to continue strengthening in 2015 building on the momentum gained in 2014.
Coupled with an increase in revolving credit usage these trends set the stage for higher discretionary consumer spending.
And the sharp decline in energy prices should allow consumers to pump less money into their tanks and more into home improvement and other forms of discretionary spending.
Improvements in housing should persist in 2015 as well.
Strong income gains mortgage rates that remain historically low and moderating home price growth should keep home affordability at elevated levels and provide more support for home buying in 2015.
Expected growth in the home improvement market is further supported by recent consumer confidence readings and the results of our fourth quarter consumer sentiment survey which revealed that homeowners' views around personal finances and home values continue to improve.
In fact approximately 1/2 of homeowners now believe the value of their homes is increasing.
Along with the positive progression in sentiment this quarter even more homeowners indicated their home improvement spending was increasing.
And while most of the home improvement projects they have planned are still small ticket the survey indicated a boost in plans for big-ticket projects versus this time last year.
In 2015 we will continue to focus on a few key priorities to capitalize on opportunities within an improving economy.
We'll further pursue top line growth by differentiating ourself through better customer experiences and improving our product and service offerings for the Pro customer.
In addition we continue developing omni-channel capabilities as part of our long-term commitment to meet customers on their terms whenever and wherever they choose to engage with us.
We also remain committed to improving our productivity and profitability with opportunities in a few specific areas including store payroll marketing and leveraging our scale to get cost savings on indirect spend.
These efforts give us confidence in our business outlook for 2015.
Bob will share these details in a few minutes.
But first I would like to thank our more than 265 000 employees for their hard work and dedication.
Their steadfast commitment to serving customers is critical to our success and an important driver of this quarter's strong results.
Thanks again for your interest.
And with that let me turn the call over to Rick.
Thanks Robert and good morning everyone.
As Robert stated we delivered strong performance in the quarter and I'm pleased to share that our store employees earned a record payout from our Sales Service Employee Incentive program.
This program rewards store employees for achieving their sales and profitability targets and for delivering outstanding customer service.
We continue to capitalize on an improving macro backdrop through our enhanced sales operations planning process improving relevance with the Pro and expanding customer experience design capabilities.
In the fourth quarter we used our enhanced Sales &amp; Operations Planning process to coordinate inventory flows advertising and training around our Celebrate the Season winter campaign.
With this campaign we targeted 4 important shopping occasions: interior refresh holiday decorating gifting and getting organized.
For each occasion our store logistics merchandising and marketing teams collaborated to ensure that we had relevant products available to customers at the right time that they were effectively advertised and strategically promoted to drive traffic and cross merchandise to build the basket.
As a result we drove both online and in-store transactions and ticket growth and we fulfilled orders in the most convenient manner for customers.
Our ability to sell products from a store online in-home or through our contact centers is a distinct competitive advantage because it allows us to engage customers on their terms whenever and wherever they choose.
We know that for many projects more than half of customers research online before making an in-store purchase.
And for purchases made on lowes.com approximately 60% are picked up in-store 10% are delivered from the store and the remaining 30% are parcel shipped.
This speaks to our ability to leverage our existing infrastructure with the omni-channel capabilities we are introducing.
From a category standpoint we drove above-company-average comps in flooring kitchen appliances lumber building materials millwork and outdoor power equipment.
We drove company average comps in fashion fixtures tools and hardware.
Customers are increasingly interested in refreshing the interior and exterior of their homes so we used targeted promotions coupled with our investment in Project Specialists to drive performance in fashion fixtures flooring kitchens appliances and millwork.
We are pleased with the Project Specialist programs.
Currently we have Project Specialists who focus on exterior of the home available across all U.S.
stores.
Our interior Project Specialists program has an average ticket above $10 000 and customer satisfaction scores over 15 points higher than the industry standard.
So we're expanding it to another 470 stores in 2015 reaching over 3/4 of our stores by year-end.
With our ability to coordinate style provide design expertise and find the right contractor to do the job we are rapidly becoming the project authority of home improvement.
Within lumber and building materials we spent -- we met strong unit demand for dimensional and treated lumber with robust inventory depth.
We also leveraged our stores' canopy program in which each market selects the most relevant lumber and build materials to be stacked just outside of the Pro entrance under the canopy.
This program helps Pros quickly find items like lumber plywood and wall board quick out -- quickly check out receive loading assistance and get back on the job.
With outdoor power equipment we met strong Midwest and Northeast demand for snow throwers.
In tools and hardware we saw a particular strength in power and pneumatic tools we have a compelling assortment of national tool brands and we've expanded our relationship with Hitachi to include pneumatic tools.
Combined with Bostitch Lowe's now has the #1 and #2 brands making us the destination for pneumatic tools particularly for the Pro.
Kichler the innovative leader in decorative lighting is another important brand for Pro customers.
And I'm pleased to announce that we just recently added this leading brand to our lighting assortment.
The expanded relationships with brands like Hitachi and the additions of brands like Kichler build on a solid foundation to serve the Pro.
In fact 14 consecutive quarters of Pro comps at or above the company average are a testament to this foundation which includes dedicated service in our stores inventory depth and our "5 ways to save" value proposition.
Additionally bill-based [ph] Pro account executives and our national accounts team make it easy for medium- to large-sized companies and government entities to do business with us.
We are also completing our beta test of LowesForPros.com which has been well received by our pilot customers.
This dedicated platform is fully transactional and will provide Pros useful functionality such as the ability to develop requisition lists and view the purchase history as well as customized product catalogs.
This site can also be integrated with purchasing systems Pros use to manage their business further streamlining their day-to-day operations and help with them working more effectively.
We have received positive feedback on the site's flexibility and ease of use and expect to make it available to all Pros this spring.
Last quarter Mike told you about the holiday decor experience we implemented in all of our stores using the stage created for our outdoor living experience.
This stage leverages our largest store format.
Developed through a collaboration between our merchants stores and customer experience design team the holiday decor experience inspired customers to decorate raise their awareness of the breadth of our holiday decor and gift offerings and provided solutions -- positive solutions relevant to the holiday micro season.
The customer response was very positive and we improved sales inventory sell-through and gross margin for the products included in this set.
We are now transitioning this space back to our outdoor living experience in preparation for the critical spring selling season.
In addition to our efforts to drive top line growth we are focused on driving productivity and profitability.
During the quarter our stores once again effectively managed payroll hours as comp sales accelerated increasing sales by hour by approximately 5% and driving 28 basis points of payroll expense leverage.
They drove this leverage while maintaining great customer satisfaction scores and best-in-class inventory shrink performance.
We are pleased with the progress this year on sales growth productivity and operating profitability and we're committed to further improvement in 2015.
In 2015 we expect to drive sales growth as we further capitalize on the improving macro backdrop through increased relevance with the Pro improved customer experiences and the continued development of omni-channel capabilities.
We will increase gross margin by continuing to partner with our vendors to drive innovation and lower first costs by leveraging our supply chain fixed cost.
We will continue to leverage payroll as we further align payroll hours to customer traffic and more efficiently complete noncustomer-facing tasks.
We will also drive expense productivity as we increase sales by reducing fixed expenses.
For example we will reduce our total marketing spend even while increasing our presence in targeted digital media.
And we will obtain further expense efficiency by consolidating the procurement of [indiscernible] business services across our corporate in-store functions.
Likewise we will increase inventory turns approximately 15 basis points as we continue to hold the inventory per store flat while increasing comp sales.
With solid depth of high-velocity items and job lot quantities in place we will obtain additional inventory productivity as we continue to thoughtfully conduct our line review process.
We are excited about the further improvements we'll make to our business in 2015 and look forward to sharing our progress as the year unfolds.
Thank you for interest in Lowe's and I will now turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
Sales for the fourth quarter were $12.5 billion which represented a 7.6% increase over last year's fourth quarter.
Total average ticket increased by 4.9% to $66.17 and total transactions increased 2.5%.
Comp sales were 7.3% in the quarter.
As you heard from Rick further momentum from our initiatives and improving execution drove balanced performance in the quarter.
Comp average ticket increased 4.9% and comp transactions increased 2.3%.
Looking at monthly trends.
Comps were 6.7% in November 7.2% in December and 8.2% in January.
For the year total sales were $56.2 billion an increase of 5.3% driven by a comp sales increase of 4.3% a full year of Orchard sales compared with a partial year following the August 2013 acquisition and new stores.
For 2014 comp average ticket increased 2.4% and comp transactions increased 1.8%.
Gross margin for the fourth quarter was 34.6% of sales which is roughly flat to last year.
In the quarter the mix of products sold negatively impacted gross margin by 25 basis points.
Also price actions hurt gross margin by approximately 10 basis points.
These items were essentially offset by value improvement and better seasonal sell-through which helped by 15 and 10 basis points respectively.
For the year gross margin of 34.79% represented an increase of 20 basis points over 2013.
SG&amp;A for Q4 was 25.24% of sales which leveraged 88 basis points.
The SG&amp;A leverage was driven by a variety of factors.
In the quarter store payroll leveraged 28 basis points due to better alignment of hours and customer traffic and strong comp sales.
Property tax expense leveraged 21 basis points due to favorability in property valuations recognized this year.
At our analyst conference in December we noted that expense productivity would come from utilizing our scale to reduce the spend on indirect goods and services.
In the quarter these efforts allowed us to leverage telecommunications and armored car expenses.
Also given the sales growth we're able to leverage fixed costs.
Lastly we have approximately 30 basis points of expense leverage associated with last year's asset impairments.
These items were offset somewhat by employee interest deleverage of 30 basis points.
The higher expenses were driven by both higher enrollment as well as cost inflation.
For the year SG&amp;A was 23.62% of sales and leveraged 46 basis points versus 2013.
Depreciation expense was $362 million for the quarter which was 2.89% of sales and leveraged 28 basis points.
The leverage was driven by higher sales as well as assets becoming fully depreciated.
Earnings before interest and taxes for the quarter were 6.53% of sales which represented a 115-basis-point increase.
For the year EBITDA of 8.53% represented an increase of 76 basis points over 2013.
Interest expense at $132 million for the quarter leveraged 5 basis points as a percentage of sales.
Pretax earnings for the quarter were 5.48% of sales.
The effective tax rate for Q4 was 34.5%.
The lower rate this quarter relative to the 38.7% last year was driven by tax provisions that had expired but were retroactively extended by Congress for calendar 2014 in the fourth quarter.
The tax rate for the quarter was also lower than our expected 36% resulting in an EPS benefit of $0.01 per share.
For the year the effective tax rate is 36.9% compared to 37.8% for 2013.
The lower tax rate for the year was the result of the settlement of prior year tax matters.
Q4 net earnings of $450 million increased 47% versus last year.
Earnings per share of $0.46 for the quarter were up 59% to last year.
For 2014 earnings per share of $2.71 were up 27% versus 2013.
The earnings per share performance for both the fourth quarter and the year represent record highs for the company.
Transitioning to the balance sheet.
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the quarter were $466 million.
Inventory of $8.9 billion was down $216 million or 2.4% from last year.
The decrease was a result of better inventory management and improved sell-through of seasonal goods.
Inventory turnover was 3.85 an increase of 11 basis points over last year.
Asset turnover increased 10 basis points to 1.69.
Moving on to liabilities.
Accounts payable at $5.1 billion was up $116 million or 2.3% to last year.
The increase relates to an almost 2-day improvement in days payable outstanding.
At the end of the fourth quarter lease-adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR was 2.15.
Return on invested capital increased 243 basis points to 13.9%.
Now looking at the statement of cash flows.
Cash flow from operations was $4.9 billion an increase of 20% over last year due to net earnings growth and working capital.
Capital expenditures were $880 million down 6% from last year.
Free cash flow of $4 billion represented a 28% increase over 2013.
During the quarter we repurchased 14.9 million shares for $1 billion through the open market.
For the year we repurchased almost 74 million shares for a total of $3.9 billion.
Looking ahead I'd like to address several of the items detailed in Lowe's business outlook.
As Robert noted economic forecasts suggest modestly stronger growth in the home improvement industry in 2015.
While we are optimistic about both the macro forecasts and our improving execution we've taken a prudent approach to our 2015 outlook.
For the year we expect total sales increase of approximately 4.5% to 5% driven by a comp sales increase of 4% to 4.5% and the opening of 15 to 20 stores which includes 6 Orchard and 2 city center [ph] locations.
We expect to report our highest comp in Q1.
This is an important quarter for home improvement and the easiest compared to last year.
While we expect the first half comp to be higher than the second half we do expect that 2-year comps will improve sequentially through the year.
We are anticipating an EBIT increase of 80 to 100 basis points.
As I noted during our analyst investor conference in December we are now targeting 25 to 30 basis points of the EBIT expansion per point of comp above 1%.
While this is our expectation for the year there will be some choppiness quarter-to-quarter.
For example let me offer 2 items that will put pressure on the flow-through for the first quarter.
In Q1 last year we had 70 basis points of gross margin expansion our strongest quarter of the year.
This year we expect gross margin to be flattish in Q1 while improving roughly 20 basis points for the year.
Also in Q1 last year we had our lowest comp and therefore reduced bonus accruals.
This year we plan to accrue to target levels resulting in a deleverage of 25 basis points in Q1 while leveraging roughly 10 basis points for the year.
We expect that most of the EBIT improvement will come from SG&amp;A.
Expense leverage will come in store payroll marketing bonus and leveraging our scale to achieve cost savings on indirect spend.
In addition we expect a fixed cost leverage associated with sales growth.
The effective tax rate is expected to be 38.1%.
A higher tax rate relative to 2014 is a result of the settlement of prior year tax matters recognized in Q1 2014.
The higher tax rate impacts earnings by roughly $0.06 per share.
For the year we expect earnings per share of approximately $3.29 which represents a 22.5% increase over 2014.
We are forecasting cash flows from operations to be approximately $5 billion.
Our capital plan for 2015 is approximately $1.2 billion.
This results in estimated free cash flow of $3.8 billion for 2015.
We expect to issue incremental debt during the year as we manage to the 2.25x lease-adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR target.
We have approximately $2.4 billion remaining under share repurchase authorization at the end of the fiscal year.
Our guidance assumes approximately $3.8 billion in share repurchases for 2015.
All future share repurchase authorizations are subject to board approval.
Regina we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Alan Rifkin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Robert maybe looking at the industry and your performance kind of from 30 000 feet it suddenly seems that the macroenvironment is improving even if housing is okay but not great.
As you look at your business do you think there's less cyclicality and is it less tied to housing today than it has been in years past? Well Alan I think we've talked about this some in the past and how really when you look through all the prior cycles when housing was -- turnover was going up and down home values continued to maintain their -- homes continued to maintain their value and actually continued to increase during a lot of those cycles.
The -- but we saw that kind of disconnect in this most recent -- this most recent downturn when home prices dropped dramatically.
So we're kind of going through this cycle.
We're getting home prices starting to come back up.
That's driving confidence among homeowners that they can reinvest in their home again.
And certainly there's been a lot of deferred investment kind of the wish list the to-do list on the refrigerator.
So people are reengaging in that.
That's what we saw in our survey where we're starting to see a slight increase in those that are not only taking the discretionary projects on but also starting to move into larger projects because they're getting confidence in the macroenvironment confidence in the value of their home.
But at end of the day income and housing are continuing to be the things that drive our business.
So there was a little bit of a disconnect in the downturn but we are seeing consumers reengage.
And we feel good about that and that was built into our guidance for 2015.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one follow-up if I may.
With respect to foreign currency effects what were the effects on your '14 numbers in aggregate? And what impact do you have built in in your 2015 guidance as a result of the strengthening dollar? So Alan the impact was essentially nominal to us.
Our international business Canada and Mexico are relatively small pieces of our portfolio of businesses.
We did have a modest drag on comps 10-or-so basis points for the quarter and about the same for the year.
As we think about FX going into '15 at this point we've modeled roughly the same levels as where we are today.
The question will come from the line of Simeon Gutman with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a minor point but just to clarify.
Investor Day I think you mentioned margin of at least 9.5% in 2015.
I think the guidance range for 2015 now if our math is right on GAAP EBIT is around 9.3% to 9.5%.
Is that the right interpretation? And if so is the range -- I guess the wider range is that just conservatism? Or has something changed in how you're looking at next year? So what I would say is that when we put our outlook for the year this is something that we expect to achieve and hopefully beat.
So if you think about our EBIT guidance for 2014 we started the year at 65 basis points and delivered 76 basis points.
So I would suggest that it's some level of conservatism.
As I mentioned in my comments we took a prudent outlook -- a prudent approach for our outlook for 2015 and the 80- to 100-basis-point range is consistent with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a follow-up is I think you mentioned the Pro grew in line with the house.
And I think the past few quarters it was a little stronger.
So is that just a fourth quarter thing? Did you just so well around Black Friday with consumers that that kept the consumer rate a little bit higher? Or was there something that changed on that side? Yes.
This is Robert.
You hit the nail on the head.
We actually -- we had for a number of quarters the Pro exceeding our overall business.
But we had really good strong performance which led to the strong comp that we delivered in the fourth quarter with great response from our retail consumer.
I'll let Rick jump in and talk a little bit more detail about what we're seeing from the Pro.
Yes Simeon.
It was really the result of the holiday and the retail consumer.
When you look at the Pro in general we still saw strong demand across all regions with the Pro.
As a matter of fact when you look at account growth which is a measure that I look at to determine health of the Pro and still the viability of our processes and programs our Pro accounts grew 24% during the quarter.
So still a huge take rate from Pros as they look to leverage our benefits of our value proposition as well as we continue to meet their needs.
We did see positive comps across all ticket sizes and ticket ranges for the quarter as well which showed strength that we did not lose anything relative to any type of transaction size that we monitor or watch during that time frame as well.
So we feel good for Pro.
We still feel good with the strength of the Pro and their response to our process and programs.
And we -- and moving into 2015 we still think that we have room to continue that growth with the brands that we're launching in 2015 a lot of what we talked about during the AIC with GAF roofing Owens Corning LENOX Golblatt other brands that we're bringing back into the portfolio as well as those brands we launched during the Q4.
So we feel really good from where we are today and entering into of 2015 with relevance for the Pro.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Baker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One just on the margin efficiency point.
So 25 to 30 basis points rule of thumb for 2015 which is higher than you've targeted in the past.
But in the fourth quarter it was only 18 basis points.
Is it really just that insurance issue? Was that the only factor that led you to come in below that rule of thumb? Or are there other things on the margins in particular to call out? So Mike a bit of it was the impact of insurance.
Some of it was the bonus payout that Rick mentioned going into the quarter.
We expected a little bit more leverage in Q4 on the bonus line than we experienced but we're happy to pay the associates.
They delivered strong results for the quarter and they deserve it.
The other piece I would mention Mike is the mix between -- that basis point mix impact hurt the flow-through as well.
Research Division</strong> And actually so if I could follow up on that.
Two points.
One within the gross margin you talked about price action.
Can you give us more details there? And secondly when you say less leverage on the bonus I'm sure it's not that you expected a better comp.
It's just that the payout was evidently higher.
Is that the right way to think about it? So 2 things.
The payout is based on our planned performance.
So as we -- our outlook for Q4 was a 7.3% comp.
So we outdelivered our expectations by a greater degree going into Q4 which led to the increased bonus payout.
As it relates to your first question on price actions really Mike that ties back to Rick's comment on targeted promotions.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lasser with UBS Investment Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to get a little bit more perspective on how you think your share is trending within the different buckets of ticket.
So we saw really good performance for your big-ticket bucket and slower performance from your smaller-ticket stuff.
Does that -- is there any suggestion that as the consumer's reengaging with some of the bigger-spend projects that the store location matters a little bit less so you're picking up more of your fair share in that spending arena? And then conversely is that potentially coming at the expense of -- from the smaller-ticket stuff? Mike I'll start and I'll get Mike Jones to jump in a little bit.
I think certainly it's a lot of the things we've been working on when we talk about the omni-channel differentiating on experiences.
When you talk about the project nature of the business and the way we're focused on the project nature of the business why we saw -- that's why we saw strong performance in areas that we outlined for you like kitchen and appliances flooring those types of things.
And I think a lot of that is dovetailing with my comments earlier about the consumer getting reengaged in some of those projects that for a lack of a better term have been deferred in the middle of the downturn as they're now getting more comfortable with the macroenvironment getting more comfortable with their income job outlook and more comfortable quite frankly that the value of their home is going to continue to move in the right direction.
So a lot of what the team's been working over the past few years was setting ourselves up to take advantage of the macroenvironment that we find ourselves moving into now which I think played itself out in the fourth quarter and I think it's what's built into our guidance for 2015.
So Mike if you want to dovetail and talk about it? Absolutely.
Thank you Robert.
Yes I'd add to it that along with -- really doing well on large ticket and gaining share Rick talked about with respect to Pro ensuring that we continue to build out our portfolio of brands have the right inventory depth have the right breadth of assortment.
We think that's going to help us over the long term continue to build better traffic.
So we think our plans will allow us to go after both.
We think that we're seeing our -- some of our project execution relative to being able to engage with customers start to pay off early.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful commentary.
My follow-up question is when you look at your different categories can you give us some sense of where -- the categories relative to peak that are still furthest off of -- from a sales perspective and where you think you can just still have an opportunity to regain those sales? Michael that would be all of the big-ticket discretionary categories.
As Robert commented the consumer is feeling better about the situation feeling better about reengaging with big-ticket categories but hasn't necessarily started in earnest.
So if you think about kitchens flooring millwork all 3 of those categories are the furthest away from where they were back in the peak? Research Division</strong> Can you give us some -- can you quantify in some way? What I can tell you is at the peak those items were -- those 3 categories were close to 19% 20% of our sales.
Today they're 16% to 17%.
So while all of those have been rising they're still lagging as a percent of the mix.
Next question comes from the line of Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So it seems to me like you guys have been a lot more aggressive with adding new brands the last couple of quarters from Sherwin-Williams to some of the new products and brands mentioned during the call.
Now are these still all part of the value improvement efforts? Or is this a specific focus to expand your Pro business which is a clear initiative? Or is this just some of the -- a more overall aggressive stance on the merchandising front? Scot I'll start and then have Mike jump in.
Certainly as we talked about it in AIC we have a strong focus on the Pro customer.
And we know that to continue to -- and that we've had great performance as Rick outlined for you.
But to continue to drive that relevance with the Pro it's everything we're doing from the quality of people to the account executives the service in the aisle of stores the depth of inventory and also the key brands that they rely on.
So that's been a dedicated focus for Mike and his team to make sure as -- when we talk to the Pro customers we have the dedicated brands that they want.
So Mike if you want to...
Sure absolutely.
I'd say the customers of Pro the tools value improvement that we use to go after better serving this customer and certainly brands we're enabling [ph] to make sure we serve those customers well.
And so to Rick's point earlier if you think about that and heavy-coated [indiscernible] wiring devices cage [ph] fasteners LENOX HVAC Owens Corning installation just really really great job by the merchants starting with our team store operations to [indiscernible] the brand.
But it's not just in Pro.
I think what we've done in the DIY space -- HGTV by Sherwin-Williams the granddad that the quality of Sherwin-Williams [indiscernible] HGTV we're really really excited about that.
And if you look at grills as an example another one that we don't talk a lot about but we have both Weber and Char-Broil the #1 and #2 brand in grilling.
So excited and it's a ton of work in tools very specifically as well.
IRWIN LENOX we talked about both the IRWIN brand and the LENOX brand.
We've made reference of Hitachi pneumatics.
You couple that with our exclusives of Bostitch makes us the destination for pneumatics.
Rick spoke about adding back Goldblatt hand tools and that's added to our current portfolio of brands which includes Bosch DEWALT Kobalt and Porter-Cable to name a few.
So the merchants have done a phenomenal job at really going out into the supply base working with our vendor partners to bring back the right brands that both the Pros [indiscernible] want as well as shoring up both for DIY and the -- and our customers looking for strong tool performance.
We're excited about what's going on.
And to your point great great work.
Next question will come from the line of Jessica Mace with Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> My question is about the online business.
I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more color on the performance.
And maybe talk about with such a large portion of sales from that business picked up in-store are there any particular categories you see really driving overall sales? Yes Jessica.
This is Rick.
I'll start and then I'll let Mike jump in as well.
We continue to be pleased with our performance at lowes.com.
It was up 25% for the quarter 2.5% of our total sales for the year.
When you look at dot-com the thing that we're really working on is as you said we've been doing online pick up in-store for over a decade.
So it's something that we really continue to focus on.
Dennis Knowles and the team have done a phenomenal job on store operations and improving the experience on the front end to make it easier for the customers to transact and get the products in and out of store quickly.
And it continues to focus on our ability to drive our omni-channel aspects of what we're trying to accomplish and do as an organization and create that visibility across stores dot-com contact centers and on site or in the home.
So it's a component of what we're really doing from an overall strategic standpoint.
What we've been focused on over the last couple of quarters and in 2014 is really enhancing the experience that the customers have when they jump on our sites.
So we've been working on delivery scheduling.
You've seen us work on improving our search capabilities and adding several thousand additional search terms to avoid getting back those no search results.
We've improved our filtering of products.
And we're also working on improving our content -- improved content for 17 000 highly visible items on the site.
So we're really looking holistically at the site to make sure that we continue to drive what we are working on.
The thing that we're still extremely pleased with is that the store remains very relevant with the customer.
And in fact almost 97% 98% of all transactions still go through our stores.
That's evidenced by the fact that we talk about a 60% pickup the other 10% delivered and then a large portion of our parcel orders are actually shipped from our stores.
So they continue to play a critical role as we leverage that asset and continue to move forward in the future.
Mike I don't know if there's anything that you want to add.
I think I'd just add anything you purchased online -- so if a consumer often starts online for inspiration getting a better sense of how they can want to pull their projects together and they'd like to couple that with the in-store experience so that they can think and work their way through the project.
But appliances fashion fixture outdoor power and tools are certainly mainstays for online.
And we take the approach that for the consumer they want us to be relevant whenever and wherever they want to interact with us.
And so we recognize that often we sell online and from there it becomes an in-store discussion.
We're also very careful to make sure that as we tie back our merchandising approaches that we're leaning into both what's important from a pricing perspective as well was what's important from an online perspective.
To Rick's point earlier a couple of brands have been added Progress Lighting and Kichler Lighting will be featured online and our online tools will help them both make selections and ship to the home or make selections and come into our stores and see that product and make the selection.
So it's -- for us it's about the cohesive experience of which online is certainly a key piece of it.
Your next question will come from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My first question relates to the mix issues that you discussed impacting gross margin in the fourth quarter.
If you could just give us a bit of color as to what categories drove that and how you would expect that dynamic to play out as we start the new year.
So Matt as you might expect the bigger -- the biggest driver of that was appliance strong growth of appliances in the quarter double-digit growth in appliances also some strength in lumber and building materials a lower-margin category.
Those are the 2 main drivers of the -- and I guess third outdoor power equipment some elevated generator sales in the quarter based on weather.
As we think about 2015 we're modeling a lot of mixed rag [ph] going into 2015 but that's embedded in the roughly 20-or-so basis point improvement that I mentioned.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my second question your inventory was actually down outright year-on-year which is a very strong performance perhaps even more than you're guiding for going forward.
So is that a function of the strong Q4? Is the port a part of it? Or is it just you're outperforming your goal with no constraint to sales as a result? So I'll take a part of it and Rick will talk about the ports.
As I mentioned we're trying to grow comps in the mid-single digit keeping inventories sort of flat.
So a lot of effort and energy around improving the productivity of inventories.
So -- and that showed up in Q4.
The second is improved seasonal sell-through.
So I think some of these seasonal goods are good-quality product that we'll choose to carry over throughout the course of the year.
We in fact did that in Q4 '13.
Based on the strength of the seasonal set the customer experience design worked with far better seasonal sell-through Q4 '14 than we did in '13.
Therefore we didn't have any carryover inventory.
Yes.
And Matt I'll just add that we also account in-transit inventory in our numbers.
So whether it's sitting at port or in our DCs that's still in our total inventory numbers.
As it relates to our ports -- to the port issues I'm extremely pleased with the efforts of our supply chain in getting our products moved through the port during this slowdown.
As a matter of fact we feel fairly good and confident about our inventory position heading into spring.
Currently we have over 3 months of forecasted sales of seasonal products already in our distribution centers and in our stores.
So we feel good from that perspective.
We continue to monitor the process in general with the ports.
And we continue to take steps to minimize any further impact such as moving product and cargo through other ports rerouting the product to where we can get it to our stores the most quickly and time-effective means possible.
But the teams have done a great job in flowing our product off the port getting the containers moved through and really proud of what they were able to accomplish.
So we feel good going into spring with our current inventory levels and it's -- particularly against our forecasted expectations for the first 3 months.
Next question comes from the line of Christopher Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So I think there's a great debate out there on how much of the gas price declines will flow through to the consumer what categories are going to benefit and when.
From where you sit whether the consumer research or what you're seeing is there a way to attribute any of the 4Q comp to -- and the industry growth really broadly to lower gas prices? And do you think that the lift is accelerating and still on the come? Or how would you frame that out? So Chris as we think about drivers of our business it's really 3: household net worth employment and housing.
So certainly less dollars going towards fuel is going to be more discretionary dollars for the consumer to spend.
So that's a fact.
What we don't know is exactly how much of that's going to savings; how much of that's going to restaurants vacations et cetera; and how much is going towards home improvement.
So we know the customers got a little bit more walking-around money.
To your specific question Chris I can't determine -- we can't determine the specific impacts to our comp in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Is there anything to say that -- I guess especially because you saw a lot of big-ticket durables is there anything to say that the benefit should actually accelerate? I mean I think it's sort of general anesthesia it helps all categories.
Is there anything that you're seeing or could say that perhaps that once it's believed to be sustainable by the consumer that the home improvement category would see a greater lift in the future? Chris this is Robert.
I'm certainly -- I think as you listen to economists speak out there they would say that the longer that we're going to go on yes the more that it becomes part of your discretionary income versus kind of a onetime impact.
And so yes.
So I think it's reasonable to assume the longer that goes on the more likely consumers will spend a portion of that and more likely part of it winds up in our channels.
So that's positive.
We view that as a potential positive as we think about our outlook for 2015.
On the other hand depending on how long it takes place the impact it has almost on a slowing global economy U.S.
exports multinationals and the impact that can have on overall jobs and those types of things don't lose sight of that.
It's not just a one-way street.
There can be other impacts as well that we need to take them into consideration.
Research Division</strong> And you're not seeing anything in the oil patch now that's a concern to you stores that are exposed there? No.
As I said in my comments we saw a broad outperformance across all of our divisions in all of our regions in the company.
So...
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First on the Pro account growth up 24% in the fourth quarter.
Can you give us maybe some perspective around that give us a sense of how fast that has been growing how fast it grew for the year? I'm just trying to understand -- put that into context.
Sure Peter.
When you look at this like I said we've been investing to grow our Pro business over the last couple of years.
We talked about the organizational designs that we've made the inventory investments that we've made and the value propositions.
As we go through -- and the addition of the programs continue to resonate very well with the Pros.
So when you look at account growth for the year in context the accounts grew by 16% for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then I guess on some of the categories you talked about the OP strength snow throwers maybe generators.
Anything on the early spring side though maybe out west as you see kind of temperatures warming out there kind of the view towards the OP category this spring? The only thing I would say Peter is that -- like I said we're early into the process.
If you recall last year we talked on the call extensively about the outdoor living experience and how we'd set that and the great response that we saw from customers from an outdoor living.
By the time we were setting it out over the majority of our stores the Deep South we were already into spring.
And so therefore we didn't want to disrupt the spring selling season in the Deep South.
We came back in the fall of the year reset all of those.
And so that's the earliest indication we would have would be from the Deep South.
And what we're seeing the receptivity from those consumers after what we've done with outdoor living experience has been very strong.
So we're pleased with the early indications and just waiting for spring to get here for the rest of the country.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly just on the flooring business looks like above-average here in the fourth quarter.
It has been running kind of I guess I think in line.
So what drove that change? Was there -- it was something that you guys think you did? Or was it just kind of a broader pickup in that category? We did do tile reset late last year.
But we're seeing pretty good strength beyond when we did the reset.
So I think it's just that the category itself -- the industry has done better.
Our final question will come from the line of Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Had a couple of questions on the cost.
Wondering if you can delineate round off a few costs that you look like you're digging into in a pretty minute way which is intriguing to me.
So I'm wondering if you can kind of just highlight some of the costs again you're looking to kind of trim back on.
You mentioned advertising I think and a few other things.
And then I know in the past when I've asked you you've mentioned that the profit margin gap between you and your nearest competitor you think is almost entirely drew -- due to volume.
I'm wondering though as you drill in a little deeper if you think you might be finding some kind of SG&amp;A opportunities that might be -- as the opportunities irrespective of volume.
So Aaron when I take a look at relative profitability when your gross margins are essentially the same as [indiscernible] as operating expenses.
As we think about operating expense opportunities we do think there's a number of areas that we talked about.
So certainly with some elevated bonus in '14 we'll plan for target levels in '15 increase levers in store payroll some advertising leverage.
Those are the big buckets.
And the depreciating dollars actually fall in '15 so we have some healthy leverage there.
Beyond that the whole indirect spend category we talked about it at the analyst conference in December.
I talked about some discrete items in Q4 not because they were large drivers.
And I mentioned telecom and armored car.
Specifically this give you a sense that it's real and it's working.
And we've got a number of categories in '15 that we're looking at things from store fixtures and displays supplies the entire [indiscernible] category and various services.
So there's a variety of different activity around that where we think we can become much more efficient going forward that will help improve the flow-through that we talked about the 25 to 30 basis points.
And as always thanks for your continued interest in Lowe's.
We look forward to speaking with you again when we report our first quarter 2015 results on Wednesday May 20.
Thanks and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.
You may now disconnect.