Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter Louisiana-Pacific Corp's Earnings Conference call.
My name is Marissa [ph] and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Mr.
Curt Stevens Executive Vice President of Administration and Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and thank all of you for joining us this morning to discuss our financial results for the first quarter 2011.
As the moderator said I'm Curt Stevens the CFO and with me today are Rick Frost our CEO; as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley who are our primary Investor Relations contact.
As I usually do I'll begin the discussion with a review of the financial results for the quarter followed by some comments on the performance of the individual segments and then selected balance sheet items.
Rick will then take over to discuss the general market environment in which we operated in the first quarter his perspective on the most recent operating results and some thoughts on the outlook for the remainder of the year.
As we have done in the past this call is also opened up to the public and we're doing a webcast and the website can be accessed at our public website.
Additionally to help with the discussion we have provided a presentation with supplemental information that we'll be reviewing with my comments.
I will reference the slides in the presentation as I go through it.
We did file an 8-K this morning with some supplemental information and we intend to file our Form 10-Q right after this conference call.
Before I get on with my comments I do want to remind the participants about the forward-looking statement comments that's included on Slide 2 of the presentation and the discussion around our use of non-GAAP financial information that's included on Slide 3.
There is an appendix attached to the presentation with some of the reconciliations and that's been supplemented by the Form 8-K filing that we made this morning.
I'm not going to reread these statements but I will incorporate them without [ph]  reference.
Starting with Slide 4 of the presentation for a discussion of the overall Q1 2011 results compared to the same quarter last year and to the prior quarter.
We reported today a net loss for the first quarter of $23 million or $0.18 per diluted share on sales from continuing operations of $332 million.
For the same period last year we also reported net loss of $23 million or $0.18 per diluted share on sales from continuing operations just under $300 million.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was a positive $10 million in the quarter compared to $3 million in Q1 of 2010.
There was movement in the tax rate of continuing operations between the quarters.
The effective tax benefit rate in Q1 of this year was 23%.
The primary difference between this and the U.S.
statutory rate of 35% and the effective rate applicable to our earnings relate to state income taxes the effect of foreign tax rates and increases of valuation allowances attributed to net operating loss carry forwards in various jurisdictions.
In Q1 of 2010 the tax benefit rate was 31% the statutory rate blended for the various foreign jurisdictions in which we operate.
Slide 5 of the presentation is a brief discussion of some special charges we had in the quarter.
As part of our ongoing review of long-lived assets held for sale in this case all the properties were assets held for sale.
We did adjust downward the carrying values by $5.5 million to be more reflective of the value expected to derive from these assets in the future.
Also in the quarter we did settle with one of our vendors that resulted in about an $800 000 recovery of past costs.
With that let me talk about our segments.
On Slide 6 is our OSB segment with an operating loss of $9 million in the quarter compared to $5 million operating loss in Q1 of 2010.
For the quarter we had an increase in volume of 18% but we had a lower average sales price of 5%.
The decline in sales price accounted for approximately $7 million reduction in both the sales and the adjusted EBITDA.
Offsetting this decrease were reductions in manufacturing costs due to the higher production volumes.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations in the OSB segment for the quarter was slightly positive at $300 000 compared to a positive $4 million in Q1 of last year.
Slide 7 of the presentation is our Siding segment.
This includes our SmartSide and CanExel Siding products and some OSB produced at our Hayward mill.
For the first quarter Siding had operating income of $4.7 million significantly better than the $8.5 million recorded the same quarter last year.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations in this segment was $17.1 million compared to $13.8 million in Q1 of 2010.
For the quarter sales were up 18% and the unit volume is better by 18% in SmartSide and down slightly in CanExel compared to the same quarter.
For the quarter SmartSide average sales price were up 2% due to product mix then the individual [ph] product pricing remaining relatively flat.
As a side note we did implement a sales price increase that took effect on April 1 in SmartSide offset rising zinc borate and paper-related [ph] costs.
CanExel prices showed an increase of18% but this was largely due to these products primarily being sold in Canada and the strength in Canadian dollar increase to U.S.
equivalent sales.
Engineered Wood at Slide 8 in the presentation.
As a reminder this is our I-Joist Laminated Strand Lumber produced in Houlton Laminated Veneer Lumber plus other related products.
This also includes the sale of I-Joist and LVL products produced by the Abitibi JV or under a sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood.
For Q1 EWP recorded a loss of $5.5 million compared to a loss of $6.6 million in Q1 of last year.
Adjusted EBITDA for continuing operations in this segment was a negative $1.2 million compared to a loss of $3.1 million in Q1 of 2010.
Volumes in I-Joist were down very significantly in the quarter of 35% while volumes of LVL/LSL were down 8% compared to the same quarter last year.
We attribute this decline in volume to lower housing starts as housing starts in Q1 were 10% lower than the prior year and where those housing starts were in Texas principally is a slab-on-grade building technique that doesn't use much I-Joist.
Pricing at both I-Joist and LVL were up 8% and 9% respectively.
These were as a result of increases we've put in place last year to offset higher raw material costs.
While there's no [ph] slide for other building products let me make a few comments.
This category includes our Moulding business our Chilean and Brazilian operations and the U.S.
GreenFiber Cellulose joint venture plus our surplus property.
Overall we were nearly $3 million positive in the first quarter as compared to a little over breakeven in the first quarter of last year.
Adjusted EBITDA increased to over $6 million.
Order sales were $46 million up 11% from the $41 million recorded last year.
Q1 was a good quarter in both Moulding and [ph] South America while the U.S.
GreenFiber results were down due to higher raw materials cost primarily waste paper and pricing pressures from alternative installation products.
Our SG&amp;A cost total SG&amp;A was down about $2 million compared to the same quarter last year and the same was true for our general corporate and other expenses down about $2 million.
Slide 9 of the presentation is the balance sheet.
A couple of things I comment here.
Cash cash equivalents investments and restricted cash was at $362 million.
Working capital was $585 million a slight increase compared to the end of the year.
Net cash was down but it was down due to the our usual seasonal build in inventory and accounts receivable.
The inventory increased with respect [ph] was about a third in logs about a third in finished goods and a third in our South American operations as we ramped up production.
Our accounts receivable just as a reminder we run about 19 day sales outstanding but at the end of the year we typically only have 7 days of sales in AR as we don't ship much product during the holidays.
Much of this increase in working capital will come back to us in the next few quarters particularly the loss.
On the capital side we were very parsimonious.
We only had about $3 million worth of capital and $2 million of that was for working capital piece value [ph].
Book value per earnings [ph] share was $9.07.
A couple of other comments.
I think in the fourth quarter we did say we expected a Canadian tax refund.
We did not receive that in Q1 of this year so it shows up in the receivables but subsequently we have received that refund.
And then our auction rate securities we did get bids from various parties on our portfolio and as a result we rolled out those securities by about $3.5 million in the quarter.
And as you know we are pursuing litigation against the principal issues of those instruments and hope to have some success in the future.
With that let me turn it over to Rick.
Well good morning everyone and thank you for your interest in our call.
We appreciate you listening in.
Curt I want to thank you for that comment of calling me parsimonious.
Most of the operating guys just called me cheap.
It's already almost mid-May which seems astounding that the first 4 months of this year have flown by so quickly.
It's beautiful here in Nashville today we're going to see almost 90 degrees and the Preds [Nashville Predators] have Vancouver in town for Game 6 tonight in a win-or-go-home situation.
Before I get started I would share with you that today's call reminds me of the timing of the last investor conference that I spoke at up in Montréal.
The February starts number had just come out about 30 minutes before I was supposed to stand up and talk about the housing market for about an hour and February starts where I think the lowest second lowest in recorded history at that time.
So this morning's Wall Street Journal front-page article on housing isn't the best way to start my comments off.
I will begin my prepared remarks with a few comments on the building products market for Q1 make a few observations about each one of our business segments for Q1 and then end my relatively brief comments with a few current and forward-looking statements.
I guess to make an understatement Q1 provided disappointing building products activity.
Unadjusted Q1 starts single-family and multi-family together were almost 10% less than Q1 of 2010 and the March 2011 adjusted rate was only at the 549 000 level.
Unadjusted single-family starts were down 21% from Q1 of last year at 89 000 units.
Cited explanations for the low-level activity have been all over the board: severe weather cautious lenders uncertainty about the future and unemployment holding back the turnaround in single-family housing but in general I'd say it's hard to find much good news about single-family new residential construction as of yet this year.
Q1 of 2011 was without the advantage of the Home Buyer's Tax Credit that was in place last year during Q1 and we started out the month of January with actually quite a bit of optimism but that quickly faded as we've progressed through the year.
So with that as the Q1 backdrop I'll now make a few comments on LP's Q1 performance.
Customarily I'd start with safety and I'll do that again.
After again winning the APA award for being the safest company in our industry in 2010 we are off to a totally remarkable start in 2011 with a Q1 TIR of 0.20 which is over 50% better than last year's results.
In terms of continuous improvement our Lean Six Sigma teams performed well in Q1 with over 5.8:1 return so far this year and we look at these efforts that's going a long way at offsetting the raw materials increases that we are sustaining this year in mostly energy-related areas.
Sales and marketing within unadjusted housing starts down almost 10% for Q1 LP specialty product sales dollars were up almost 9% and our sales force was able to capture about 280 new wins during Q1.
At this level of housing the wins are becoming more difficult.
For OSB in Q1 LP's OSB operated at an effective capacity of about 67% and an overall capacity of 53%.
We did sell 18% more volume in Q1 than a year ago but at an average sales price of 5% less.
We entered January with random print in a $200 per thousand range but prices began to drop through February and March to the current random blueprint levels.
The strengthening of the Canadian dollar to the U.S.
dollar has not particularly been our friend for the Canadian production that we have to sell in the U.S.
and as well we did experience some weather-related shipping issues with the Canadian railroads which caused some inventory problems north of the border.
Siding continues to be our bright spot in this poor building market with SmartSide sales volume up 18% in Q1 of this year compared to Q1 of last year.
Our strategy of segmenting this product category is producing positive results.
We're growing this product line and adding resources to this business to promote and support the growth.
We've divided the Siding market into 5 segments: the Retail Big-box segment the Shed Nonresidential the Remodeling segment the Multi-family segment and the Single-family New Construction segment and we are pursuing growth in each area in an individually tailored manner.
Engineered Wood Products with new residential starts so far in the tank as Curt mentioned and with Engineered Wood so heavily tied to new starts volumes of I-Joist and LVL were down and the improvements in losses quarter-to-quarter come from improvements in pricing to offset raw materials from last year and absolutely great cost control by our operations.
As well we were able to move a bit more volumes offshore.
In South America we continue to be pleased with our progress.
Both Chilean and Brazilian operations were profitable in Q1.
The Chilean rebuilding activity created by last year's earthquake has begun now in earnest and both of our Chilean plants are running at full production on an annualized basis that should be somewhere around 240 million feet this year.
In Brazil we produced at an annualized rate of about 200 million square feet in Q1.
Only about 10% of that production is currently going into Brazilian housing and about 25% is going into specialty exports to Asia and the rest is for general use in Brazil.
We may be at a point by midyear where we decide to start the second thermal oil line at our Brazilian mill to increase the production capacity.
Looking at Q2 and the rest of the year it's again disappointing not to be able to see significant housing activity increase.
A quick review of the revised forecast from the many forecasting services shows all revisions have occurred in a downward direction and since it's at this time of reporting it's about 622 000 single- and multi-family for the year and another 40 000 to 50 000 in manufactured housing.
Q2 has started off very differently than a year ago to say the least when the month of April was quite robust for both OSB and Engineered Wood.
As of yet we have not felt nor experienced any spring bump in the construction activity.
Our logic going into this year was that the first half of the year would be slower than the last half and the second half of this year would be stronger.
The first assumption is proving true and our visibility in the second half is not currently very clear.
One other item on our last call I did offer some capital guidance for the year but said that I would adjust that amount as the year unfolded.
I have done so based upon how this year has started out.
I am reducing our capital spending number to about $25 million plus the $22 million to $25 million for the completion of the Brazilian mill purchase.
And with that let me turn it back over to Curt for the question-and-answer period.
Thank you Rick.
Marissa [ph] if you could give the Q&amp;A instructions? [Operator Instructions] You do have your first question from the line of Gail Glazerman from UBS.
Rick I was wondering if you could give some perspective on the 18% growth in OSB volumes relative to the 20-ish percent decline in multi-family -- in single-family starts in the first quarter? Was that kind of a mix shift share gain inventory build on the part of customers? Yes I think that some wood went into the channel.
We were certainly optimistic going into the year.
We had put a few more logs in our log back and we had produced thinking that there would be greater takeaways.
I think that our customers had the same sense of enthusiasm earlier in the year and I think they took a little more wood plus the channel was built -- drained down quite a bit in the month of December.
So that's the way I'd think about it.
Okay thank you.
And can you talk a little bit more about what you're seeing in inflation? I think last quarter you gave us some guidance that you had expected 2011 inflation to be somewhere in 2010? Has that changed at all? This is Curt Gail.
If you look at our raw materials our raw materials were up about $6 million over the first quarter of last year so you take first quarter 2011 volume and apply the pricing differential.
But half of that was logs and of that I would guess that maybe 2/3 of the log increase was related to the Canadian currency or more so than inflation.
So where we saw the inflation is I mentioned zinc borate.
We did get a price increase in zinc borate in our Siding business so that was about $1 million.
And then we continue to struggle with anything that's related to energy so MDI was up a little bit our PF was up a little bit and then wax was up.
But overall about a $6 million impact and I'd say a third of that was currency.
Okay that's helpful.
And Curt can you give us some guidance for the tax rate for the balance of the year? Yes.
As you know when you put your tax rate into effect in the first quarter what you need to do is look out what you expect your year end tax rate to be.
On the first quarter the 23% benefit of [ph] rate if the year plays out the way that we have forecasted it would continue to be at that 23%.
Okay.
And then just last question on the asset sales anything eminent related to the write-down that you took or so kind of on the wait-and-see? We do have a contract for the Saint-Michel facility which we've had for some period of time and Mike Kinney who's running that sale assures me that we're going to get money about every quarter.
I haven't seen it yet so it's not in my forecast.
And then we continue to look at options for at least the front-end portion of two close deal [ph] with the mills [ph] looking at bio-energy.
We're still pursuing that but right now it's kind of difficult for people to come up with a lot of capital for that.
So I'm not anticipating anything and if it does come I will be pleasantly surprised.
And your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde from Deutsche Bank.
Curt you talked a little bit about the Canadian dollar in terms of its impact on your variable inputs.
Do you have a number for its overall impact in the quarter? Well typically what we look at on an annualized basis every penny is about $1.3 million and so that's a pretty good proxy for it.
So you will look either sequentially or go back to January of last year.
January of last year was about 95.
We had about a $0.10 swing was a pretty big swing.
Now what we're doing to offset that is our largest customer in 2010 was actually a Canadian customer.
So we're trying to keep as much of our product in Canada that we produce in Canada.
Now that doesn't always work but the Canadian housing market has actually been pretty steady for the last couple of years.
[indiscernible] Offsetting that that's -- if you had ask to me that about three years ago it would have been a $4 million number for cash [ph].
Okay.
Second question.
Rick can you talk about sort of the different elements of impact from kind of storms and flooding that we might be seeing in terms of what it might be doing for wood costs and the OSB mills that it's knocked out and anything that might be doing for you on the demand side? Yes I'll tell you a couple of wags [ph] at that.
I think overall the impact in terms of probably your reference point around if there's like hurricanes the price of OSB jumps we have seen surprisingly little impact from the different weather occurrences and tragedies that have occurred around overall which means that number one it's early on the back-end of those; but number 2 the distribution channel has been able to handle that.
So the overall impact has been relatively small.
In terms of the impact on us specifically we lost 10 days at the Hanceville mill due to a power outage and then we lost about 4 or 5 days up in Maniwaki due to some weather-related stuff up there but that's been the only impact on our inability to produce.
Okay does that have any impact on kind of wood costs wood supply just tempered and knocked down or maybe getting salvaged and still at lower prices? It's very early for that.
We just got the power restored back to our Hanceville plant last Friday so in terms of any residual impact on Timber we wouldn't be able to feel that probably for 3 months or so.
It's certainly -- most of these storms were not very wet so there hasn't been anything related to the ground beating [ph] weather than it should be this time of the year and we'll have to look at the salvage.
But it's too early to tell on that.
Okay.
Then another thing that was a little bit of a head-scratcher here a month or two ago was one of your competitors in the business made the decision to move ahead with completing a partially completed OSB.
Any thoughts on given the pretty miserable look ahead for single-family housing what might have sparked that decision? I got a bald spot on the side of my head from scratching it.
Okay all right.
And I guess final question.
Just given the outlook for housing has it -- and on the demand side -- has it made you think more about sort of trying to find some supply-side alternatives to turn this business around? Well I think what we're trying to do is we've certainly turned up the gas and trying to get more board overseas and so in particular if we can get more Canadian board overseas that's probably the single largest lever that we've got.
We will continue to try to produce to the demand of our specific customers and then continue to be what we call very agile in terms of not making more than our customers need.
But I don't anticipate that we would have any announcements of it [ph] of a short-term nature in terms of just adjusting in the individual mill's supply or production to the market at that time.
I'm not looking at shutting anything else down right now on.
And your next question comes from the line of Peter Ruschmeier from Barclays Capital.
Maybe following up on the last question.
Rick I'm curious can you quantify the amount of offshore OSB volumes in the quarter and do you have kind of a visibility of how much you think that might be able to scale up in the coming quarters? Well I'd like to knock your socks off with that number.
It's still pretty small but we're trying to -- I think I made the comment on the last call that we had put about 5 million feet into China all of last year.
I think we're currently at about the 2 million to 2.5 million level with hopes of maybe -- per month with hopes of going up to 4 million feet per month over time.
So there's a chance that we could do 8x 8x 10x more in this year to Asia than we did last year.
But again we're at the front end of that so I can't make that promise at this point in time.
I'll keep you posted.
Are there markets outside of China that you're finding interesting? Not particularly.
We have a few from our South American operations.
We're looking at Turkey and a little bit to India.
But basically we're trying to solve our West Coast Canadian problem and so Asia is illogical [ph] there.
Very good.
Curt you mentioned that the Canadian tax refund has finally come in but it's more of a 2Q event.
Can you remind us the amount of that tax refund It was CAD $11 million.
CAD $11 million.
Okay.
And then on the OSB operating rates I just want to clarify.
The 66% utilization rate I believe that's how much you ran as a percent of those facilities that were running.
Will [ph] the 53% is if you had all facilities running? That's correct.
To get to the different denominator I would have to put the Chambord mill in there and the Clarke County mill in there which are both currently indefinitely curtailed.
Okay.
And then just lastly if I could the 18% volume gain in SmartSide you mentioned you're breaking that down between Retail business the sheds the remodel the multi-family single-family construction.
Can you provide some clarity on where that demand is coming from on those segments? And is it really a market-based phenomenon or are you actually gaining share in that segment in the SmartSide? We're actually making very good penetration in each one of those segments.
The Retail business has been good for us.
We've had tremendous success in the central part of the us United States in our SmartSide line.
And I think what's happening there is as we're getting more and more people to try this product we get repeat customers.
And we're also now about 15 years beyond the debacle of the Intersil issue and people are starting to forget that when they see the merits of this new redesigned product.
So penetration's remarkable for us right now.
We're very happy with that in each one of those segments.
Do you foresee more CapEx required in that business or do you think you have enough of a footprint to work with? Got about 80% 90% capacity in front of what our current run rate is.
You remember that we did put some improvements into that business right before housing went in the tank and we fully converted our Hayward mill.
So we're only running one line at Hayward right now on Siding the other on OSB but the Hayward mill is ready to convert to Siding when the need comes and then we're currently running our smaller 3 smaller mills on 3 shifts.
So we've got about 300 million to 400 million feet of capacity 300 million feet of capacity in front of that business right now without money.
And your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover from D.A.
Davidson.
So first of all is it your sense that there's a lot of inventory on the ground given that production for OSB was up 18% and the offtake wasn't really there? I don't know what a lot means but they're certainly more than there was at this time last year.
So the channel -- our customers add a little bit more on the ground than what they did a year ago.
I mean it's not just charter bought full [ph] near as I can tell but you kind of look at the way the market's performing and that tells you that they've got enough to cover their needs.
Steve I'd say that at the end of the quarter there was more on the ground but I think they've all been adjusting through April and May and that's why you see pricing come off as hard as it did.
And so are you going to adjust your production plans from where you might have thought at the beginning of the year? We do it every day.
We do it every week.
Okay and then -- I apologize I should probably know this but on the notes receivable the $533 million is there a direct offset for that in long-term debt? And how come the number went up from 2009 back up to the current levels? There was a change in the account literature.
We had to take an off-balance sheet transaction that was for the Southern Timberland and we had to add that back onto the balance sheet.
So that was a big increase.
It was always reported and disclosed but it wasn't an off-balance sheet transaction but a change in accounting rules [ph].
Okay.
Well I thought there was something along those lines but there is a direct offset in terms of the debt right? It's not a direct offset.
There's about $45 million greater assets than there is a liability.
That's what I thought.
But the obligation shows up in your long-term debt? Correct.
Shows up as a recourse.
It's within that $760 million? Yes it is.
Okay thanks.
Just I guess one other quick question.
You gave us a little bit of an update on South America.
Do you think that in Chile are they in full-blown reconstruction mode following the earthquake? Obviously it took some time to just sift [ph] through the mess? Steve they're getting there.
There was a bit of a lull after the earthquake when the new administration down there has slowed everything down for a period of about 6 months to reset the dial on some of the problems that they thought they might be having around corruption.
And that dial has been reset and I think the expectation for this year is to do about 100 000 homes in which the government's going to participate.
So we're right on the front end of that.
As you remember there were about 400 000 to 500 000 structures that were damaged or destroyed so we're right on the front end of that.
So we feel pretty good about the takeaways in South America for a couple of years.
And does it surprise you that Brazil was still such so undeveloped from a pure housing demand? No.
I guess if you had to ask me that about 6 to 9 months ago it was surprising me because of the difficulty that we've actually had in penetrating building product systems down there.
But we're pretty sensitized to that now.
We've changed our strategy from one of conversion to one of adaptation meaning that we're looking instead of converting their building practices.
We're looking where our products can fit into existing building practices and putting most of our effort there and then it's just going to take a little while.
The bigger the country the harder to get over the inertia.
Building products has never been a really fast-moving trendsetting type of an industry anyway and so changing building practices are slow.
But we are encouraged in that we're up to about 10% of our product is going into building the way we build up here where a couple of years ago that was nothing and we have a strategy to improve that every year.
In the meantime we're doing relatively well in terms of exports and then just general use of OSB for other purposes like furniture stock and concrete form et cetera.
We'll keep you posted on that in terms of our penetration.
And your next question comes from the line of Bill Hoffman from RBC Capital.
LLC</strong> Just a quick question on the Canadian plants.
You talked about keeping more of that product in-market up there.
I mean it sounds to us like the Canadian markets are slowing down as well so could you just address that strategy and also maybe what you're seeing about other offshore opportunities out of Canada? Well from last year's robust activity I was just up there a couple of weeks ago talking to some of our larger customers and at least in the first quarter it did slow down a little bit.
But over the course the projections are that the underlying demand up there is somewhere around 175 to 180.
I think projections for next year the consensus is about 162 but the variation is not all that great.
So I think the first quarter was run over [ph] with weather and transportation problems and I don't really know how much is going to slow down yet this year because of projections are for about 172 for this year.
What was the second part of your question? LLC</strong> Well I was just trying to get a sense of how much product comes into the U.S.
out of Canada right now and...? Well we have 2 mills on the West that are players into the U.S.
and basically the Western U.S.
market which is our very large mill: the piece value joint venture that we have with Canfor with the capacity of about 750 million feet and then a relatively small mill called Dawson Creek.
Both of those we are trying to keep as much of that volume as we can in Canada and then what we're trying to do as I said earlier is see if we can use those 2 mills because of the freight logical nature of their location to go to Asia.
The piece value mill was built to put volume into the Western part of the United States down into California which has not been a very good market so anything that we can either keep in Canada or push to Asia we think will benefit us.
LLC</strong> Okay thanks.
And then just a final question.
In the Engineered Wood Products you also mentioned just talking about seeking some offshore opportunities.
I'm just wondering if you could expand on that a little bit and what you see as potential there? Yes we've had considerable success so far in Australia mainly and so we have some good customers in Australia which are taking product predominantly out of our Golden British Columbia mill.
And that's mainly LVL.
That's allowing us to run that plant a little bit more full.
It has allowed us to make a little bit more plywood to shift to plywood opportunistically in the trail of the Japanese problem that they've had.
And your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey from Goldman Sachs.
A couple of questions.
First on the housing market a number of analysts out there are saying that there's more like that we'll see a recovery in multi-family starts before we see one in single-family because vacancies are much closer to normal and single-family homeownership rate is still declining here.
The first part of that question is based on what you're seeing out in the market.
Would you agree that it's more likely to see multi-family come back first and how do we think about the impact on your business from a recovery in multi-family relative to single-family? How much OSB goes into multi-family or a unit of multi-family relative to a unit of single-family? Multi-family definitely is up much more from year-to-year.
I think it's up somewhere around the neighborhood of 28% from this time last year.
That's a good thing.
Multi-family uses about what is it a half as much product as a single-family start so that's the downside of that.
Multi-family is very good and we've been having some recent successes and wins for our Siding business.
Multi-family also uses Engineered Wood Products.
That's very helpful.
And then second question is we've been seeing the square footage of the single-family house have trended lower over the last number of years.
How do you think about that dynamic over the next 3 to 5 years in terms of just the size of the single-family? How do you see that changing over [ph] the next couple of years? There's two different key items [ph] that I read on that.
One is that that will continue to stay at about the level it is now because at least in the near-end recovery of housing you're going to see more starter homes because that's where the greatest pent-up demand is going to be.
So you're seeing about somewhere around a 9% reduction in the amount of square feet for a start.
The other camp says that more of the houses that are going to be built in the next couple of years are going to be houses that are built from the wealth effect if you will the money that's been made in the stock market over the last couple of years.
And so that will actually offset and drive the average start for home up which is not necessarily a good thing since that means that there's fewer homes being built.
I don't know exactly how that's going to sugar out but I don't anticipate it -- my own opinion is I don't anticipate a drop in more than another 50 to 60 feet and then it's going to turn around and slowly start back up.
And your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly from PLCA [ph].
A couple of things.
In your release you talked about enhancing customer relationships and my question is in the current market is there a lot of switching going on? I mean your customers aren't that busy.
I'm curious if they're spending their free time shopping around or not.
So I'm curious has that become more or less important? And then the second question on Engineered Wood Products.
If I leave aside I-Joist Engineered Wood Products wasn't doing all that great in the bull market.
Now it's not doing great in the bear market and my question is do you think it's going to look materially different as we get into the bull market? Obviously it would be better now.
But this was the piece of the business overall that lagged the most when things were good so I'm just curious if you think it's going to look materially different actually [ph].
Yes when things were good right before they fell off actually it was when Engineered Wood was starting to come to its own.
If you go back probably to 13 years to 15 years before that it was always a segment of the business which was fighting with overcapacity.
Amazingly enough all of the forecasts that we have going forward say that there's actually going to be a shortage of LVL and LSL going forward and that the corresponding pondent's [ph] beliefs on what's going to happen to pricing have also been very positive.
So we think that there's more and more conversion and acceptance of Engineered Wood Products in terms of the quality of that material and so from our point vantage point it's way too early to give up on Engineered Wood Products because when this market comes back our belief is that they're going to be even more important than they were.
Okay that sounds promising.
Can you just talk about the customer relationship a little bit and whether you see builders putting things out to bid or shifting around their suppliers in OSB when they're this quiet to begin with? Yes I think to deal with that with any degree of respect you almost have to build divide the different business segments and so let me run through them.
I think our most important area of customer relationships is in our Siding business and where we can match customer service with a high-quality product that has a value proposition we are not seeing switching.
What we're doing is we're gaining market penetration there.
We're gaining share.
In the last couple of quarters you've seen double-digit growth.
Those people once they take our product are not switching back.
Engineered Wood Products I would tend to kind of agree with you in terms of we appear to be switching customers.
We'll win one from someone else and then they'll win one from us.
And so some of the barriers there that we thought were tremendously important like software and the fact that it's more technical so it's harder to change out that hasn't proved to be true.
It seems to be a price game to a large degree right now in Engineered Wood Products.
And then in OSB other than your contractual volume the relationships are critically important in the value-added products.
Our value-added products are of course a radiant [ph] barrier the market-leading tax shield plus our flooring products and so customer relationships are more important in the value-add and less important in the commodity.
Did I answer your questions? Yes that's helpful I appreciate it.
And the next question comes from the line of Mike Roxland from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just a quick question as it relates to exports.
I'm not sure you're seeing the impact today but how much OSB I guess are you currently selling to Japan and given the expectations that [ph] you're currently exporting will increase as Japan looks to rebuild? We don't do much in Japan.
We do not have the certification to get into Japan.
There is another one of our competitors which has been in that market for quite a while and they seem to be satisfying most of that market.
Our bet is that Japan's not going to be a real game-changer and we're putting our efforts on China.
Got you.
Any improvement in China in terms of how you've seen building codes change? We've heard stories over the last year or so about increased building with wood like in Shanghai as the code actually changes.
Have you seen that impact? Currently as I look through as many of the lumber statistics and what's being published in lumber right now because that's obviously leading the way over there only about 2% I think of the homes over there that are using -- of the wood frame construction is at about 2% and that's mostly single-family rural and up to 6-story multi-family.
The expectations are over the next couple of years that that may actually move to about 8%.
Right now of the wood that's going say from North America over to China near as we can tell about 49% of it's going into wood some wood remanufacturing in some form or another which would mean for specialty products and then probably either being used there or shipped back out and about 48% of it's still being used for concrete form.
So the opportunity there with as large a market that it is is if we actually do see them grow this from 2% wood construction to 8% wood construction that's quite large and may actually help takeaways from this country quite a bit.
Got you.
And then just last question going back to North America for a second.
Obviously housing has turned out to be worse than expected.
When the year began you have higher resin costs.
Also you have the Canadian dollar which has been a headwind.
Is there anything else that you can do from a production vantage point to improve domestic profitability? Well the things that we can control I think we're hitting a pretty good look at.
And I talk every quarter about our Six Sigma being a Six Sigma company and like last year we had 30% of our employee population participate in improvement -- project improvement teams.
And that accounted for about $18 million of improved results last year.
So in terms of efficiency in terms of driving down costs in terms of working on usage that's where we have our people employed but I don't see any other big levers other than if the supply-demand relationship can be changed much as it has in Canada where more and more of their lumber is going overseas.
I think that that's helped buoy the lumber price in North America.
The only comment I would add to that is we did see with housing starts down 9% to 10% quarter-over-quarter we did see our adjusted EBITDA go from $3 million to $10 million.
That's after offsetting the $6 million increase in raw materials costs.
So I think that we've demonstrated with those results that we are doing the things that we can control and we do need some help from the market to increase profitability.
Is there a particular target you have in mind for 2011 with respect to the Six Sigma project? Well yes but I wouldn't want to share that with you.
I'll tell you what we do every quarter.
We have stated early on that we expect at least 3:1 returns.
Currently last year we produced a little bit over 5:1 returns and this year through the first quarter we're 5.8:1.
So we haven't run out of projects which is good.
And you have your last question from the line of Paul Quinn from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of easy questions.
One is on you've just seen definite idled capacity in North America.
I've got it somewhere at 20% 25% to 30% of total capacity.
What's your current estimate of the percentage of this stuff [ph] that comes back to the marketplace? Well it depends on where housing starts go Paul.
If housing starts go back up to the 1.2 to the 1.5 you're going to need it all.
I think that's the chart we showed in the presentation.
If you go look at the website there's a chart that looks at that.
So we'll need the $25 billion.
If you think about it it's about 1 billion square feet per 100 000 housing starts.
So if we go from basically 550 to 1.2 you're adding 7 billion feet to a market that's roughly $17 billion now of which is the [ph] $24 billion.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just on overseas shipment volumes I think Rick you said 2010 you shipped 5 million square feet into China? LLC</strong> And we want to multiply that by 8 or tenfold going forward here? Well that's the opportunity that we're looking at right now.
I'm not willing to promise that to you but that's what we're trying to do.
I'd now like to turn it back to Mr.
Stevens for closing remarks.
Well thank you very much for participating on the call with us.
And as is our practice Mike and Becky are available for follow-up discussions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation you may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Louisiana-Pacific Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Derrick and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Curt Stevens Executive Vice President of Administration and Chief Financial Officer.
Please proceed.
Thank you very much and thank all of you for joining us on this Friday afternoon to discuss our earnings for the second quarter of 2011.
I know it's been a busy day for many of you.
As the moderator said I'm Curt Stevens the CFO; and with me today is Rick Frost our CEO; as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley who are primary Investor Relations contacts.
As I usually do I'll begin the discussion with a review of the financial results for the quarter and then I will follow that with some comments of the individual segments and selected balance sheet items.
Then I'll turn it over to Rick who will discuss the general market environment in which we operated last quarter his perspective on our operating results and some thoughts on the outlook for the remainder of this year and into 2012.
As we have done in the past we’ve opened up this call to the public and are doing a webcast.
And this can be accessed at our public website www.lpcorp.com.
Additionally to help with the discussion today is a presentation that we sent out with the release and I will be referencing those pages as I go through my comments.
We've also filed an 8-K with supplemental information that will help with the understanding of this material and we expect to file our Form 10-Q later this afternoon.
And again before I start I want to remind you about the forward-looking statement comment that's included on Slide 2 of the presentation and also on Slide 3 is a discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial information.
I'm not going to read either one of those but I am going to incorporate it by this reference.
One final thing before I get to the numbers I want to put this in context.
I want to put it in a context of what housing has done in the second quarter and also in the backdrop of OSB pricing.
In the first half of 2010 we believe that the government-provided housing incentives did have a positive impact on both the actual and perceived activity in the quarter.
As a result we did see increased product demand in Q2 of last year and enjoyed favorable OSB pricing particularly in the second quarter.
The first half of this year started out with some degree of optimism in January and February but this quickly faded with the adverse weather conditions across the country lackluster housing demand in numbers and slowness in the retail sector.
This affected the demand for building products in both the first quarter and the second quarter and had an extremely adverse affect on our pricing for OSB.
The bottom line in Q2 housing starts were down 4% year-over-year and Random Lengths reported that average OSB pricing based on the benchmark North Central 7/16s declined by 42% or $123 a thousand.
This affected LP's overall sales and operating earnings by $75 million just due to the change in OSB pricing.
With that as backdrop let me talk about the earnings.
If you go to Slide 4 of the presentation this is our earnings summary.
We are reporting today a net loss for the second quarter of $35 million or $0.27 per diluted share.
Net sales from continuing operations were $363 million for the quarter.
For the same quarter last year we reported income of $22 million or $0.16 per diluted share on sales from continuing operations of $448 million.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was a loss of $7 million compared to income of $75 million in Q2 of 2010.
There was movement in the tax rate on continuing operations between the quarters.
The effective tax benefit rate on continuing operations in Q2 2001 was 20% very similar to Q1.
As we discussed last quarter this is primarily related to the requirement of the valuation allowance against the use of certain of our losses in various jurisdictions above a specific threshold this is all due to the accounting rules.
Compounding this is in the discontinued operations we were required to use the statutory benefit rate of 38.7% which results in a slightly lower tax benefit rate on continuing operations.
I'll talk about this in a minute but that affected -- if you used a more normalized rate that would have improved or lowered the loss by about $0.04 to $0.05.
In Q2 of last year the tax benefit rate was 35% which was the statutory rate blended for our various foreign pieces.
Slide 5 of the presentation is a discuss of year-to-date results.
For the year we're reporting a net loss for the first 6 months of $59 million or $0.45 per share on net sales from continuing operations of about $700 million.
For the same period last year we reported breakeven results on sales from continuing operations of $745 million.
Adjusted EBITDA for the 6 months was a positive $3 million compared to a positive $76 million in the first half of last year.
And the tax rate as we've discussed was a little bit unique.
On Slide 6 of the presentation is a reconciliation of special charges.
We did take additional impairment principally on assets held for sale of about $2.5 million to adjust those book values to what we expect to receive in these future transactions.
In the other operating charges and credits there were 2 items a positive adjustment to a civil culture reserve and an increase in an environmental reserve that netted to a favorable $600 000.
Without these items earnings per share would have been a loss of $0.24 a share.
If we also used a more normalized tax benefit rate our EPS would have been a loss of $0.19 a share relatively close to the $0.16 loss it is the first call consensus.
Let me turn to the segments on Slide 7 of the presentation is OSB.
We did have an operating loss of $23 million in the quarter compared to $48 million of income in Q2 of 2010.
For the quarter we had a 4% increase in volume with a lower average sales price of 36%.
The decline in the sales price accounted for virtually all of that change in EBITDA of $71 million.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations in the OSB segment was a loss of $13 million compared to a positive $58 million again that same $71 million that we've talked about attributable to pricing.
Year-to-date OSB had a loss of $32 million compared to income of $43 million the same period last year.
Adjusted EBITDA was a negative $13 million in 2011 compared to a positive $62 million in 2010.
Pricing was down 25% between the 2 years and accounted for almost all of this difference.
Slide 8 of the presentation our Siding segment.
This includes our SmartSide and CanExel siding products and also includes commodity OSB produced in our Hayward siding mill.
Operating income in this segment $11.3 million it was worse than the $22 million recorded in the same quarter last year.
Adjusted EBITDA for continuing operations in the segment was $15.3 million compared to $27.4 million.
For the quarter sales were down 9% with the unit volumes down 8% of the SmartSide and down 6% in CanExel compared to the same quarter last year.
The change in OSB pricing in this segment affected both sales and earnings by about $4.5 million.
For the quarter our SmartSide average sales price was up 2% and that was due to a price increase that we put in on April 1.
This was put in place to offset rising zinc borate and paper overlay costs.
Our CanExel prices has show increase of 22% but this is largely due to CanExel primarily being sold in Canada and the strengthening Canadian dollar increase to U.S.
equivalent of the sales price.
Year-to-date signing and operating income of $24 million through the first 2 quarters compared to $30 million in the same period last year.
Adjusted EBITDA was $32 million in 2011 and $41 million during the same period last year with most of that change being the OSB pricing.
Engineered Wood in Slide 9 of the presentation.
Just as a reminder this includes our I-Joist Laminated Strand Lumber and our LVL products.
It also includes sales from 2 of our joint venture mills with Abitibi and a sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood.
For Q2 EWP recorded a loss of a little over $3 million compared to a loss of about $4.5 million in Q2 of last year.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was breakeven in the quarter compared to a loss of $600 000 in Q2 2010.
Volumes for I-Joist were down significantly 29% while the combination of LVL and LSL were down slightly compared to same quarter last year.
We attribute this decline to lower housing start as well as an increase in the multi-family versus single-family for which EWP uses more product.
Pricing was up 3% and 2% respectively.
These increases were a result of the price adjustments that we made last year to offset higher raw material cost.
Year-to-date the operating loss in EWP improved to a $9 million loss compared to an $11 million loss and adjusted EBITDA was just over $1 million compared to a loss of $4 million in the same period last year.
While there is no Slide for other building products let me make a few comments.
Overall it was $2.2 million positive in the second quarter compared to about $3.5 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Adjusted EBITDA was $5.5 million versus $6.5 million in 2010.
Sales were up 5% to $50 million in the quarter.
And then year-to-date our other building products and operating income a little over $5 million compared to just short of $4 million last year.
On total sales general and administrative costs are $28 million for the quarter down about $1 million from the same quarter of last year and the general corporate piece of that costs were $2 million lower than last year.
On a year-to-date basis we're down about $3 million in total SG&amp;A from the same period last year.
Slide 10 of the presentation is balance sheet.
Some key balance sheet statistics there.
We did have cash and investments of $368 million at the end of June.
That was an increase of about $6 million from the end of March.
Working capital about $550 million.
In net cash position of $140 million.
This is down from the end of the year by $70 million $55 million of which is an increase in working capital for inventory and receivables that is based on seasonal activity.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were at $8 million and book value per earning share was $8.88.
A few other comments before I turn it to Rick.
In the quarter we did purchase the remaining 25% interest in our LP Brazil mill that was a price of about $24 million.
The accounting for this minority interest is a bit complex but basically the difference between the purchase price we paid and the non-controlling interest that we had on our balance sheet already went through other comprehensive income.
Well this showed up as additional equity for LP Corp.
as an investing versus a financing activity on the cash flow statement.
So other than the cash flow that went out there was no impact on LP's financial statements in terms of this working capital.
On our auction rate securities we did have a slight increase in the value of the auction rate security that we recorded at the end of Q2.
We do continue to pursue the litigation filed against the principal issuers of these instruments.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we did sell all but the collateralized debt obligation portion of our portfolio and we got net proceeds of that of about $19 million.
So in Q3 we will recognize a gain of about $14 million associated with these ARS sales.
With that let me turn it over to Rick.
Good afternoon everybody and we do appreciate your interest in our call.
I realize there are a lot of competing news releases today plus a lot of national suspense.
On top of that we just completed our Board of Directors meeting here at noon.
So Curt was kind enough to get us -- Kirk and his people were kind enough to get us ready for this call for this afternoon.
For a bit of a personal indulgence to me I plan to escape to Maine this evening to spend some vacation time with my family and so I'm looking forward to that.
And instead of waiting until next week I getaway this evening.
I'm going to begin my prepared remarks with an overview of some thoughts on Q2 and the market.
I think that it's no secret it's been well publicized that spring did come late across the U.S.
and Canada and because of that what building activity that did take place in Q2 started late.
I think if I coupled this with the sense that we and our customers begin the year with a little bit more optimism and a little bit more wood Q2 was not only slow in activity but we found our customers soon trying to conserve their cash and bleed down what inventories they had on hand during Q2.
That was not a combination that was terribly conducive to robust sales from our manufacturing facilities.
I think we suffered all quarter from this combination across all 3 businesses.
And then judging from the performance of Random Lengths print of OSB prices there appeared to be more wood on the market than there was demand for it.
Along with U.S.
starts being down 4% Q2-to-Q2 the Canadian starts were also slowed by the late onset of spring and also forecast for Canada are projecting that Canada will be off 5% to 10% from last year in starts.
I'll now direct a few comments towards what we did in the businesses.
I usually begin with safety I'll start there.
We had an extraordinary quarter operating safely.
At LP and year-to-date our OSHA TIR was down to 0.2 at the end of the second quarter.
That is our best performance in LP's 38-year history.
And of special note as of today our OSB business the entire combination of all the mills has a string of 310 consecutive days without a recordable accident.
Our continuous improvement engine of Lean Six Sigma continues to help us improve operations and partially offset raw material increases with a year-to-date return of over 6:1.
So even in these market conditions our folks continue to find significant improvement projects to work on.
I usually talk to you about wins.
Win if you remember is defined as a product placement with a new customer or an additional product placement with an existing customer.
We did quite well in Q2 our sales force received 538 new wins during Q2 which is almost 10% more than Q2 of 2010.
Almost 20% of these wins were in our LSL product line but I will admit that these wins are tougher to get and the wins are smaller as we stay on the bottom of this housing cycle.
In our OSB segment it was a tough Q2 as we watched I think any enthusiasm that we had for a spring bounce in building activity fade away and we experienced random print steadily declining.
LP's effective operating rate for Q2 was at 70% which was only 3% higher than in Q1.
And as Curt related poor pricing and poor demand were pretty much the story there.
Siding if you're remember Q2 of last year was our best second quarter during what I'll call the down years.
And when we compare Q2 of this year to Q2 of 2010 we see about $10 million less in EBIT I think the difference can be explained most simply by saying it was in 3 major areas.
About $4.5 million of that was in the price and volume of the OSB that is sold out of our Hayward siding mill about $4 million increase in raw materials and we had warned you of that early in the year around zinc borate and our overlay paper and then the other $2 million was related to the decrease in siding volume quarter-to-quarter.
Unit volume sales in SmartSide were off from Q2 of last year about 8% but all in all still not a bad quarter for siding.
Engineered Wood Products pretty much tread water financially in Q2 with overall sales being down a couple of million from last year but that was offset by some operating improvements to yield an overall break even in adjusted EBITDA.
Year-to-date we are ahead on LSL sales volumes by about 100 000 cubic meters.
A few comments about South America Chile continues to be a bright spot for us as both mills are operating at full capacity.
About 87% of the product that we make in Chile is now being consumed in Chile and we are growing exports also to Argentina and Colombia.
Chile is EBIT positive and a cash generator.
Brazil's big news as Curt mentioned is that we now own 100% of the Ponta Grossa mill.
It's now EBIT positive and cash positive.
We're producing at about 16 000 cubic meters per month on one thermal oil line at that facility and we expect that sometime during the second half of this year we will have to face the decision of starting up the second thermal oil line.
Which may be of interest to you we are exporting about 35% of the OSB volume made in Brazil and the lion's share of that is going to China for non-structural uses.
We are finding it a slow process to gain code approval to break in to Brazilian housing and we're working right now on wall and roof approval.
In the meantime we will be looking to see if there are additional countries that have attractive export situations.
As I look forward I think back over the last few conferences that I've been to and as many of you have heard me say we put our operating plan together for 2011 based upon an expectation of 700 000 starts all in.
That was based upon the belief that the first half of this year would be slower than the first half of last year but that the second half of this year would be stronger than the second half of last year.
I guess as I look at that I'd say we got it half right.
The first half of this year was definitely slower than last year but it doesn't look to me like the second half of this year is going to be much stronger.
Right now I think that we'll be fortunate to end the year at about 625 000 starts all in in the U.S.
So that's the guidance that I recently offered our LP folks in terms of driving how they're going to do their spending make their inventory decisions and their operating assumptions.
As I look forward most of the forecasted updates that we have related to 2012 are around that 700 000 number.
There has been a little good news lately that the impact from foreclosures may not be quite as bad as the gloom and doom that was being spread there.
But I still think it comes back to having more certainty of an economic rebound needed by the general consumer and then how soon the country can get back to job creation.
I feel pretty confident now that our capital expenditures for 2011 will not exceed the $20 million mark plus the $24.5 million that Curt mentioned in the completion of the Brazil mill purchase.
And in terms of what's going on right now.
OSB pricing particularly in the West is quite low.
Since we supply most of that volume from Canada the CAD $1.05 CAD $1.06 is quite problematic for us.
In Siding Canada has slowed a bit but our U.S.
order file has recovered over Q2 levels.
And in Engineered Wood distribution volume has built up in Australia which is where we are exporting quite a bit of material.
And that's going to put us in a bit of a bind on our West Coast LVL volume.
South American activity remains quite strong into the winter and the North American channel feels very very lean right now.
So with that I'll turn it back over to Curt to run the Q&amp;A.
Thank you Rick.
Derrick can we go to the queue? [Operator Instructions] And our first question is coming from the line of Mike Roxland from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Curt in your remarks you mentioned that the decline in OSB profitability in 2Q was basically driven by OSB pricing.
What was the impact if any of higher cost such as resin in the quarter? If you look at across -- what we do Mike as we look at the raw materials cost across the business for the quarter compared to the second quarter of last year raw materials costs were up about $6 million.
About half of that was in resin about $2 million of that was in the zinc borate and the paper associated with the Siding business and the rest would have been in power and wood.
Now what we were able to do was offset that with some of the continued efficiencies that we've gained through our Lean Six Sigma program.
So when you think about OSB we offset the increased raw materials cost with more efficiency in the mill.
Got you.
And how have input cost trended with respect to your initial expectations of I think a total petro-chem spend this year of around $125 million? The second quarter ended up being about $4 million higher than what we had budgeted.
And that was largely because of the spike in benzene and methanol pricing that we had in Q1 because we have a look back adjustment factor in our resin so our resins were all of that.
Wood came about where we expected it to natural gases where we expected electricity is where we were expected.
So it really was in the resin area.
That was because methanol and benzene were high.
Just in terms of capital spending.
Obviously you are trying to keep it as lean as possible.
What's your typical level of maintenance capital spending and how long can you run at those levels without the mills requiring additional spending in the next year or so? Typically what we look at is about $1.5 million to $2 million per mill.
But we're not running the mill full out so we don't have that same level.
So typically what you would see is in the $40 million to $45 million for our maintenance capital and we aren't going to spend that this year and we didn't spend it last year.
So we are building up some projects there as we look out into the future years.
But I would emphasize we're not running them 24/7 either so those costs probably aren't the same as they would be if we're running 24/7.
Your next question is coming from the line of Gail Glazerman from UBS.
Rick last quarter you talked about some initiatives to increase your exports out of North America.
I guess you talked a little bit about maybe you mentioned there wood going to Australia.
Can you just give us an update on how that initiative stands? Yes.
I said a little bit of it but I'll just kind of run through the businesses.
We have achieved quite a bit of success coming out of Brazil to China in non-structural OSB and that's I think that will be about 4 000 cubic meters -- that conversions help 4 000 cubic meters a month are coming out of Brazil to China.
Last quarter we moved about 5 million feet out of North America to Asia admittedly at very lousy pricing most of that product did go to Korea.
I'm hopeful that we will start being able to put OSB from North America into China but the gain that we have to accomplish there is that we have to try to strategically position that product in China where it's good business not just a take-or-refuse business.
Which means we have to try to position it strategically into the housing market.
I would guess if our plans come with what we have on the drawing board right now I'm hopeful to get up to 15 million board feet per quarter by the fourth quarter of this year.
In terms of our Engineered Wood Products business we have had considerable success going to Australia.
We are also penetrating Europe now with predominantly our LSL product and so that is one of the reasons that you see our LSL sales going up.
Did that answer your question Gail? It did indeed.
Curt can you keep the corporate expense line kind of in general where it was in the second quarter? Would you expect that to move up later in the year? Right now the primary reduction is we are falling short of our budget from a bonus standpoint so we reversed management bonuses.
And unless we see OSB pricing go up dramatically I would expect it to stay at the same levels.
Okay.
And then just one last question on Engineered Wood Products.
So you're kind of I guess EBITDA break even in the quarter.
Is that something that you think you can sustain moving forward? Or was that kind of just something unique in the quarter that you'll probably maybe get a little bit negative moving forward? That's why I put that little doodie in there but Australian distribution backing up.
I think that's going to cause us a little bit of problem out of our Golden mill.
The other thing is we kind of in a little bit of a process of switching from watermelons to cantaloupe their developing an appetite for a treated product.
So we're changing some volume production from the western side of the United States to the eastern side of the United States to be able to handle that.
So I would think probably while we're working through both of those issues one their distribution leaning out a little bit and secondly us getting some treated product into that market.
We'll be a little slower on our exports to Australia in the second half.
Okay.
And all right just one last quick question.
Rick you mentioned inventories having buildup earlier in the year with expectations.
Do you think those have largely been worked out of the system by now? Yes.
It just feels really really clean out there right now.
I mean it's hand-to-mouth at least that's what it feels to us and that's what our customers are projecting to us.
One last thing I'd just like to add.
Rick stopped a little short on our export business.
In siding and molding Lowe's is opening up a presence in Australia and may have selected our siding and molding products to be stocked in their stores.
So we are seeing a little bit of activity in siding and molding in Australia as well.
Your next question is coming from the line of Mark Connelly from CLSA.
Rick 2 questions.
Looking a little past the wins that you've got this quarter.
Are you thinking about shifting around where you're going after business or have you been shifting around where you're going? I'm increasingly convinced that Home Building is going to pick up in much different places than it was strong before.
And I'm just wondering how much you can shift around and react to that? Second question is as we see homebuilders simplifying floor plans trying to hit lower price points.
Are they doing anything with siding or panel that is going to help you in that process beyond some of the things you've already talked about with CanExel? Let me take your shifting question first Mark.
I'm interpreting that question to mean geographically inside the U.S.
Are you talking about...
Yes.
For the most part that's right.
Yes.
I think we're already there.
I would we bet that anybody you asked that question is to -- we have just really almost started doing microanalysis and we're actually putting sales efforts and marketing efforts based upon individual cities now.
You can no longer look at this thing nationally or even regionally and so our sales guys are out there trying to find just individual cities where their activities greater.
And that's the way it's going to come back and that's where we're putting our sales effort together right now.
Are you more nimble in doing that now than you were say a year or 2 ago? Yes.
We learned a heck of a lot.
My Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing sitting here smiling because he keeps telling me that he's getting a lot better at that.
That's basically been his job the last 3 years and of course it's also been a necessity so yes we're getting much more nimble at that and also much better at that.
In terms of your second question on siding I don't see any trends in terms of homebuilders changing that would particularly benefit from us.
But what I do see is that our siding products have a very good growth trend and I talked about the 20% of our wins last quarter in LSL.
Even a larger portion of those wins are in one siding product or another.
So were still very excited about -- once we get a builder to use our siding products they use it again because they like it they like working with it.
And so we had some growth there we have a couple of new products that we're trying to penetrate some different markets than what we've been in before as well.
Your next question is from the line of Bill Hoffman from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Rick I just wonder if you guys could put some numbers on some of these export business that you're talking about.
Where we are today and what you see the potential growth rates from the business are at the moment? I think I'd rather not.
I really don't want to share that with everybody else that might be listening if you understand.
Maybe we can do a little bit more later.
But right now there's a whole pack of dogs trying to run anywhere where there's a piece of meat and we don't want to point out where the meat is.
Bill what we will have is in our 10-K.
We do put in international sales and we'll break those out by country.
LLC</strong> Just a second question is with the purchase of the other share down in Brazil.
I just wonder if you could talk a little bit more about maybe what future opportunities you see there.
And that's obviously -- solidified that position today but what else do you see opportunistically down in the South America markets? Well we're making progress in Argentina and also Colombia right now.
Those are the 2 countries as I talked to our South American leader down there where he's putting his efforts.
So you add that to currently doing business in Peru and in Chile.
So as Chile fills up and I said 85% of that production is kept in Chile and used in Chile Brazil will be the source of that product so that will help us to start to fill up Brazil.
And of course the big win and the ultimate strategic pearl that we're looking for is that we make this breakthrough and become part of the housing construction system that's got to satisfy this 14 million home need in Brazil over the next 10 years.
LLC</strong> And then last question is on just on resins.
What are you guys looking at this one time? Any shift in strategy on resins especially with some of these rulings on formaldehyde and the like? The rulings on formaldehyde don't really affect us because that's at the customer level.
When you go through the process the formaldehyde is taken out of it.
So we continually look at the trade-off between PF and MDI and optimizing our resin recipes to be as cost-effective as we can.
But those are relatively modest modifications we're not making anything that's significant.
We are looking at alternatives for wax so we have qualified tallow wax at our mills.
Today that's not cost-effective but with the volatility we've seen at wax pricing we can switch back and forth.
You're next question is from the line of Chip Dillon from Medical Research Partners.
Listen I remember on the last call or maybe it was 2 calls ago you guys mentioned that if you made a decision to start up Clarke County it could take as much as I think 9 to 12 months to really get the people hired and get everything shaken down.
And I guess the first question is is there any reason why it would take others who have existing plants less time to restart them than that same 9 to 12 month period? It would seem not given that you have sort of a clean slate there and that it would therefore take others just as long to really get their plants restarted if they were attempting to do that.
I said it would take up to 9 months.
We still think that it would take somewhere between 8 and 9 months to get Clarke County up and going.
Clarke County is a huge mill.
We would have to basically start over with training people and all of that.
We think that if we were to say go after and startup Chambord it might only take us like 6 months because most of those people still live in that area and it would be a little speedier process depending upon the time of the year that we made that decision.
So I think for us that's what we think I don't know how anyone else would have much of a different approach to that.
Probably part of that answer is when somebody admits that they start it right? So if somebody wants to look good they'll tell you 3 months into their process of getting started that well we can do this in the 3 months and that's probably because they got 3 months already done.
Let's say it does take whatever the number is 8 to 9 months or even 6 from the time you decide.
If you're down here in the States aren't there other factors? Like for example the supply-chain that's around that mill whether getting wood procured getting people to bring it to the mill as well as wholesalers and other relationships to take the product.
Is that something that could actually delay a restart? And I'm not talking about just you but anyone.
You bet.
I mean just to add on to that let's say you're in the north.
Depending on where you were in the logging cycle up there if you don't get your wood in in the winter there you can't start logging again until mid-June early July so that's a complicating factor.
So on your wood supply you can be affected by a month or 2 and then also the other end of it is what shape will the distribution channel be in when there's a need for these mills to start back up and I think all of us are wondering that.
That's why you don't get a real precise answer of like it's going to take 97 days and on the 98th day I'll be doing it because it's different for each location.
Well yes there's a brand-new pulp mill I won't say the name that was announced last year in Brazil and they gave almost the hour at which they plan to start it up.
And I think it's in 2013 so if that happens I'm going to Vegas.
I hear you.
Well we try to make the distinction between precision and accuracy around here.
Your next question is from the line of Gene Pavlenko from D.A.
Davidson.
This is Steve.
Two quick questions please.
First of all the wins that Rick was referring to.
Do they come become at someone else's expense? And if so do you think that this is perhaps exacerbating the depressed price levels? I think they do come at someone else's expense.
That's true.
Now whether it's exacerbating anything or not I'm not sure.
I mean it's a dog or dog eat world out there for customers and so everybody is competing for customers.
There's too few customers and there's too much distribution and so we have to have demand that's what going to solve that problem.
It has to be more -- our customers have to have more customers.
Well we need the economy to grow faster than 1.3% for that.
Yes sir.
I would agree with you.
Second question then.
You indicated that 8 of your mills are operating 2 are on a definite hiatus.
Can you tell us what the operating rate was during the quarter and where you think it will be for the next couple of quarters? I can't tell you where it'll be but I did say in my opening prepared remarks that we operated in the second quarter at an effective capacity of 70% Steve.
And then it depends what happens in the market this quarter and where that sugars out.
We're making decisions almost weekly on what we run and what we don't.
Do any of your mills in the South -- are they benefiting from the extraordinary dryness which has made logging very simple and depressed wood prices? Well I think probably the benefit that's not terribly obvious is that we've had a large increase this year in diesel prices.
But you haven't seen our wood cost go up a whole lot so the offset in the increase in diesel prices is probably offset by the availability of wood which allows us to cut on the stumpage side a little bit.
So that's the benefit of it.
But it's not huge I think we're up probably favorable to last year by 800 000 900 000 in the South.
And the $14 million gain that you're going to get in the asset-backed securities in Q3.
Does that put this whole thing to bed after this or there's still litigation pending? There is still litigation pending against both the primary issuers of the securities.
Part of that litigation is in New York and part of that is in California.
We will have as I mentioned we did not sell the collateralized debt obligation because basically they're valued about $0.04 on the dollar.
And all but one of those is currently paying interest.
So it makes more sense to hold those they're on the books for a little less than $2 million.
So it's not much value there but we're going to hold them for the interest of getting the $2 million dollars and putting it in money market funds wouldn't be a very prudent thing to do but we are getting interest paid on that.
But we are aggressively pursuing the litigation because we do believe we were misled as the industry was on these.
What's the face value if you're holding them at $2 million? About $25 million in face value.
So we're collecting interest on about $21 million but we're carrying on our books for $2 million.
And when do they mature? There are various time frames but they're generally like 2018 to 2025.
There's only one that's not paying interest the rest are.
Your next question is coming from the line of Peter Ruschmeier from Barclays Capital.
I wanted to come back if I could to the wins Rick.
And I don't if you can maybe give us a some more specific examples.
In particular I was curious if you have any good examples of OSB penetrating new markets in plywood that might be different from the kind of markets you've gone after in the past.
Yes I'm not going to give you the specific but we just recently had a good win in one of our specialty OSB products in the state of Florida where Florida has not typically been a very good recipient for OSB products.
So I'm not going to give you the detail on that but it would be a builder going standard on our product in a place where they have substantial activity where they had not before given us a standard.
Is that a good example? Okay.
That's a good example.
And I guess I was curious if you have any examples outside of traditional housing and markets.
Well our Siding business is continuing -- I think I've made some comments on the last call around we're going to a segment strategy in our Siding business where we divided it up into 5 different segments and let's just take one of those which I'll call the shed segment.
I think they've got a fancy name for it now.
But where we would go to people that have traditionally constructed sheds for people and we have been able to inject a handful of our siding products into that shed construction.
Everything from a siding panel that has the radium barrier on the inside to a flooring product in that shed that actually has a paper overlay on it.
And that would be an example of going into a segment and convincing them to move away from plywood and the old conventional plywood paneling or whatever and switch to SmartSide and that would be an example of that.
And we've proven quite successful there.
And then I'm curious if you could take us back a step back for us and help us to better understand.
In the siding market if you could remind us your share of the overall siding market.
And how much share you think you're gaining and what kind of limitations you have and is it vinyl that you're going after most successfully? Which categories have you been most successfully gaining on? Well if you remember back to our Investor Presentations that we've done over the years we have a chart in that section where it breaks down -- in fact you got a copy of this you know you do.
It breaks down the overall siding business and where we put ourself as we're the only people that make the kind of siding that we make and that's about 3% of the market.
The other thing that we observed over the last 5 or 6 years is that everybody's taking a bite out of vinyl so the growth in all of the other kinds of siding I think have come at the expense of vinyl.
I think the first time I gave one of those presentations 7 years ago vinyl had like 43% of the market and I think they're down to somewhere around 25% of the market.
Our products compete very much head-to-head with the cementitious siding and so that's where the big battle is.
Okay.
And how about -- I mean do you have any stretched goals or targets in this area? I mean if you're at 3% of the market if you're to aspire to have 5% market share how long does it take to get there? I mean do you have kind of line of sight to what's achievable? I'm going to answer your question in a different way.
We'll probably sell about 400 million feet of siding this year.
Current capacity to make siding in the LP system right now is about 700 million.
So our first goal is to fill up the capacity that we've got and then where are we going to build our next mill or convert the next OSB mill to this product.
I think longer-term we're aspirationally believing that siding can be a billion dollar revenue business for us.
I can't put the timeline on that right now because of the morass that we're in the middle of right now does not allow me to make any kind of a reasonable projection about that.
Your next question is coming from the line of Mark Wilde from Deutsche Bank.
Just a couple of questions down in South America.
You mentioned that your selling most of the Chilean output in Chile.
And I know a couple of years ago seemed like there were a lot of -- there were some guys from the North American market who had been dumping OSB down in Latin America and really depressing that market.
Is that still going on or have you seen some of that tail off? There are some occasional forays from non-Chilean companies into Chile.
But it sounded like a couple of years ago it was a pretty serious issue.
And if you're selling most of your output in Chile now is that less of an issue? Well it can be.
Obviously I mean what it can be is if you could end up in a situation where you've got more wood on the market than the market wants and that affects pricing.
So yes I mean you have to keep your eye on that.
Nothing we can do about it by the way but obviously it affects you.
Yes I just wondered whether the fact that you could sell so much in Chile was a marker that maybe there was a less of that going on.
Doesn't sound like it.
Our competitive advantage there is freight and distribution.
We're the local producer we're the Chilean company making it and we don't have to ship it from a different continent.
So that's how you compete with the occasional intrusion.
Doesn't seem like it whenever I'm down there.
You go more than about 50 000 miles of than Pan American highway without seeing an LP billboard.
Over in Brazil can you just talk about the headway you're either making or not making in terms of getting some of these building codes changed? And what you think the timeline might look like.
Yes.
The last conversation that I had with our South American leader down there is that we're hoping to have made some progress on roofs and walls by about this time next year.
Okay.
How long would have that have taken? How long have you been working on that? A year year and a half.
All right.
You have any precedent from just sort of what you've gone through in any of these other countries? Well it's too early for a precedent there because our precedent before was Chile where we had great success in conversion.
And what we've learned going into Brazil is the bigger the opportunity and the country is usually the bigger the obstacles and the bureaucracy are.
So that's what were working to overcome.
Yes okay.
You mentioned you were having some luck up in Columbia which I think is really enjoying some good growth right now.
Are you going to talk briefly about that? Well just that that's been the discovery if you will of our Chilean President is that he likes the look and the feel of the Colombian economy and thinks that that may be a good place for us to sell more products.
So he never really talked to me in the past before last week about Colombia and he was pretty complimentary of what he thought the opportunity might be there.
He thinks he's approved in Colombia.
Are you exporting anything over to Europe right now? I mean it seems like European prices are a little bit better and the currency the dollar is weak.
Yes actually that's a little better deal for us than the stuff that's going to Korea.
We're putting some product in Europe right now from our Québec mill and that's pretty good business.
Their ears perk up every time Jeff mentions a U.K.
order or a European order.
Okay.
And then the last question I had you mentioned that the pipeline appeared to be pretty empty.
I just wonder if we go in to August here and it seems like 1 year out of 4 1 year out of 5 we get a pretty good hurricane season usually you sell a lot of panels during hurricane season.
Do you have any thoughts on what this market could do if we saw 1 or 2 and if there's any kind of buffer out there in the market if demand does pick up? Well I think the only thing that -- I just have to go back to my original comment there I think the channel is extremely lean.
And so if there's some kind of an upset created by anything that tends to put some franticness in the market which that's tends to make pricing react favorably in that particular sales area.
But I don't know how to like handicap that for you.
It's supposed to be an active hurricane season but...
What we say around here about hurricanes is that we would like a lot of them but we want none of them to hit land.
We just like the process where everybody gets scared and goes boards up their property and then nobody gets hurt or loses anything.
Derrick I think that's all the time we got for questions.
So if you could  give the replay number and I want to thank all of you for participating.
And as always Mike and Becky are here to answer any follow-up questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
If you would like the number for the replay that will be (888) 286-8010 with the access code of 49386948.
You may now disconnect and have a great weekend.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Louisiana-Pacific Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Carissa and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now turn the presentation over to your host for today's conference Mr.
Curt Stevens Chief Financial Officer.
Please proceed.
Thank you very much and thank all of you who are joining us on this conference call to discuss our results for Q3.
With me today are Rick Frost LP's CEO; as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley who are our primary Investor Relations contacts.
I'll begin the discussion with a review of the financial results for the third quarter of 2011 followed by some comments on the performance of the individual segments and a few balance sheet items.
Rick will then take over to discuss the general market environment in which we operated in the quarter his perspective on our most recent results and some thoughts on the remainder of this year and into next year.
Rick will then provide a bit more color about the organizational announcement that LP made this morning.
Following this he'll turn it back over to me to answer your questions.
As we've done in the past this call is opened up to the public and we are doing a webcast.
The webcast can be accessed at www.lpcorp.com.
Additionally to help the discussion we have provided a presentation with supplemental information that should be reviewed in conjunction with the earnings release.
I will reference the slide numbers during my comments.
We filed an 8-K this morning with some supplemental information and we will file our Form 10-Q shortly.
I want to remind all the participants about the forward-looking statements comment that's included on Slide 2 of the presentation.
Please also be aware of our use of non-GAAP financial information that is discussed on Slide 3 of the presentation the appendix attached to some of the necessary reconciliations that have been supplemented by the 8-K filing we made this morning.
I'm not going to re-read these statements but I will incorporate them with this reference.
Before I begin my detailed discussion and results for the quarter I do want to focus on 3 factors that affected our reported results this quarter and year to date: housing activity OSB pricing and a non-cash impairment.
For Q3 housing starts as reported by the U.S.
Department of the Census were 6% higher than the third quarter of 2010 when activity tailed off due to the expiration of the housing tax credit.
For the first 9 months of this year actual housing starts were 2% below the same period in 2010.
For the third quarter and first 9 months of 2011 our OSB prices were 7% and 19% lower than the same  periods in 2010.
The swing in pricing for Q3 caused a $9 million reduction in earnings compared to the same quarter last year and had a cumulative negative effect on year-to-date operating results of a little over $95 million between the OSB and Siding segments.
In the quarter accounting rules did require us to take an impairment against the carrying value of our Houlton Maine LSL mill.
This non-cash pre-tax impairment was for $62 million.
I want to be very clear that this is an accounting decision not a business decision.
We remain committed to this important product line and expect it to be a strong contributor to earnings when the housing market recovers.
Now let me go to the numbers.
Refer to Slide 4 of the presentation for a discussion of Q3 results compared to same quarter last year and the prior quarter.
We're reporting a net loss for the third quarter of $66 million or $0.49 per diluted share on sales from continuing operations of a little over $350 million.
For the same period last year we reported a net loss of $32 million or $0.24 per diluted share on sales from continuing operations of $323 million.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations had a loss of $7 million in the quarter compared to a positive $4 million in Q3 of 2010.
Moving in to the tax rate and continuing operations between the quarters in Q3 we had a tax -- effective tax rate of 26% compared to a 35% in Q3 of 2010.
As I've discussed the last several quarters this difference is primarily related to the requirement to put a valuation allowance against our losses in Canada above a specific threshold due to these accounting rules.
Compounding this is the impact of discontinued operations which by accounting regulations are required to be benefited at the statutory rate of 38.7%.
That results in a lower benefit rate on continuing operations.
Slide 5 of the presentation is a discussion of year-to-date results compared to the same period last year.
The year-to-date we're reporting a net loss of $124 million on sales of $1 billion during this period.
The same period last year we reported net loss of $32 million on sales of $1.1 billion.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was a loss of $4 million compared to income of $81 million in the first 9 months of 2010.
The tax rate in continuing operations from the first 9 months was 24% compared to 32% in the prior year.
Slide 6 of the presentation is a discussion of special charges.
As I mentioned earlier we did take a significant impairment on the carrying value of our Houlton Maine LSL mill.
In addition to the impairment at Houlton we also adjusted the values of some of the assets held for sale to reflect the current reality in the market.
This is about a $3 million negative adjustment.
As we've said over the last few quarters we are willing seller but it's hard to get a willing buyer to the table on some of these asset sales.
In the other operating charges credited the bulk of the positive adjustment is related to a take-back of around $10.5 million from claims reserves set up for the ABTco hardboard-class action.
This is based on recent activity.
The impact of adjusting for these items gives an adjusted loss from continuing operations of $26 million or $0.19 per share.
Not shown in this slide is a charge we took in our discontinued operations to increase the reserves for the decking class action again this is based on a continuous analysis and review of the data.
The increase was about $8 million.
Let me discuss the performance of each segment.
On Slide 7 is our OSB segment.
We had an operating loss of $16 million in the quarter compared to a loss of $5 million in Q3 of 2009.
For the quarter we had an increase of 5% in volume and an average sales price of 7% lower.
As I mentioned earlier the decrease in the sales price accounts for most of this change a $9 million reduction in earnings and adjusted EBITDA.
This may seem a little bit odd as the ops coated Random Lengths 7/16s North Central price index was actually slightly higher than Q3 of last year.
But if LP is a national footprint our prices are influenced by the other regions particularly the West Coast where pricing was down 17% quarter-over-quarter.
Additionally higher raw material costs principally reserve [ph] in energy and a higher Canadian dollar increased our costs.
However we were able to offset these increases with the results of our Lean Six Sigma efforts and improved operations.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations in the OSB segment for the quarter was a loss of $7 million compared to a gain in third quarter 2010.
Compared to Q2 of 2011 volumes were slightly higher up 2% while prices were flat.
Year-to-date OSB had an operating loss of $48 million compared to a profit of $38 million in the same period last year.
Adjusted EBITDA for the comparable periods with a loss of $20 million in 2011 and income of $67 million in 2010.
Pricing accounted for more than 100% of this decline or $91 million dollars.
Refer to Slide 8 of the presentation for Siding.
This includes our SmartSide and Canexel product lines and a small amount of commodity OSB produced in our Hayward mill.
For the third quarter Siding had operating income of $12 million which is higher than the $9 million recorded in the same quarter last year.
Adjusted EBITDA for continuing operations in Siding was $16 million compared to $13 million in Q3 of 2010.
For the quarter sales were up 7% with unit volumes higher by 10% in SmartSide and lower in Canexel by 29% compared to the same quarter last year.
For the quarter SmartSide average sales prices were up 5% due to a general price increase implemented in the first part of the year to cover increased production cost.
Canexel prices also showed an increase of 5% but this is largely due to Canexel being sold in Canada in Canadian dollars and as the Canadian dollar strengthening against the U.S.
equivalent.
Year-to-date Siding had operating income of $36 million compared to income of $40 million in the same period last year.
Adjusted EBITDA for the comparable period was $49 million this year versus $54 million in 2010.
The OSB pricing on the Hayward volume lowered earnings by about $5 million and accounted for most of the shift.
Slide 9 of the presentation is the Engineered Wood segment.
This includes I-Joist Laminated Strand Lumber and Laminated Veneer Lumber plus other related products.
For Q3 reported loss of $3 million compared to a loss of $5 million in Q3 of last year.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations in EWP segment was just slightly negative in the third quarter compared to a loss of almost $3 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Volumes of I-Joist were up 26% while volumes of our LVL/LSL were up 71% compared to same quarter last year.
This looks like a big number.
Let me just remind you that in third quarter of 2010 we saw significant reductions in the inventory in the channel and therefore the increases shown this quarter are a bit of an anomaly with the exception that we did see an increase in our exports for these product line.
Pricing was down 3% in I-Joist 4% in LVL/LSL primarily due to changes in product mix.
Year-to-date EWP had an operating loss of $12 million compared to a loss of $16 million in the same period last year.
Adjusted EBITDA for the comparable period was a loss of about $1 million this year compared to a $6 million loss in 2010.
While there's no slide for our other building products let me make a few comments.
Overall we're showing a loss of $1 million in the third quarter of 2011 compared to income of $1 million in the third quarter of 2010.
For the quarter sales were $46 million up 11% from the $41 million recorded in Q3 of last year primarily driven by our South America operations.
Year-to-date other building products and operating income of $4 million compared to income of $5 million same period last year.
Adjusted EBITDA for the comparable period was $14 million in 2011 and $13 million in 2010.
We did have a $4 million foreign exchange loss in the quarter compared to a very slight loss in the same quarter last year.
This loss was driven by the significant temporary increase in the U.S.
dollar at the end of September.
In early October the U.S.
dollar again dropped in relation to Canadian dollar Brazilian real and Chilean peso so most of this gain we have recovered.
Slide 10 is a summary of the balance sheet.
Cash and cash equivalent investments or restricted cash were $375 million.
This is an increase around $7 million from last June 30.
Working capital of $216 million net cash of $137 million and we spent about $13 million in capital expenditures.
One final comment before I turn it to Rick in October we did modify and extend our asset-based loan agreement with our banking group to increase availability lower our cost and reduce the administrative burden.
We did file an 8-K on this extension of a timely manner.
Key items including extended maturity from September 10 2012 to October 14 2016; decrease the interest rate payable for certain types of loans that permits LP to include in its borrowing base certain vendor-managed inventory and then increased our flexibility to incur and prepay certain types of debt.
With that let me turn over to Rick.
Well good morning everyone and thanks for listening in.
Before I get started I can't -- resist props go out to my LSU Tigers over the weekend which offset our Titans loss over the weekend.
It is beautiful here although the results aren't that beautiful.
So this morning in my prepared remarks I'll add some color to LP's performance in Q3 and then follow with a bit of a look into Q4 and how we presently see 2012 evolving.
As is customary I want to begin with safety.
Through our Q3 our year-to-date total incident rate was .42 and we are still on a record-breaking pace of improvement in keeping our peoples more safe every year for the last decade.
Our Q3 was nothing to brag about us as we did experience a few more nicks and hickies than in Q3 of last year.
But year-to-date we are still ahead of last year's performance.
From an environmental perspective we experienced no notices of violation for the quarter and experienced no environmental fines.
Our Lean Six Sigma efforts continue to yield good results with our year-to-date returns at 6.7:1 and about 20% of our workforce are participating on improvement teams.
As Curt said capital spending in Q3 was a little under $5 million and around $13 million year-to-date.
I still do expect us to come in around that $20 million number that I have previously offered for guidance for 2011 exclusive of the capital of course that we spent to complete the purchase of the Brazil mill this year.
As Curt mentioned our cash and investments are $375 million and we are net cash of $144 million.
Early guidance on capital for 2012 I'm going to put out there around $25 million.
I'll update you on that in February after I've had a chance to fully review those plans in more detail.
Raw material costs are performing about as we suggested to you back in January that we thought they would.
We expect our raw material price variation to end up a negative of about $25 million at the end of 2011 compared to the end of 2010.
The lion's share of that is in resins binders and wax at a little bit over $15 million and negative variation and the other $6.5 million is in the zinc borate and the paper overlay which we alerted you to on our Siding business earlier in the year.
Now let me make a few comments on each one of our major businesses and our other reporting segments that include South America.
I'll begin with OSB.
This business was most of the negative result.
Although sales and production volumes were slightly up Q3 to Q3 our sales price was down against Q3 of last year.
And as Curt mentioned we were particularly disadvantaged with very low West Coast pricing where we have a significant presence because of our Peace Valley and Dawson Creek OSB mills.
About 27% of our volume was sold into the Western markets in Q3.
Manufacturing costs for OSB were pretty much in line with Q3 of 2010 except the resin binder and wax costs which were up 18%.
Our value-added component was up about 12% in volume over our Q3 2010 and made up about 35% of our total mix on a volume basis in the quarter.
OSB ran at an effective operating rate of about 70% for the quarter and at about 55% of its total capacity counting the currently indefinitely shut mills of Chambord Clarke County and now Dawson Creek.
During the quarter we did make the decision to indefinitely shut down the pressing operation at Dawson Creek and to move that volume to Peace Valley.
Dawson has a rated production capacity of about 390 million feet per year.
This mill will stay open to process TechShield blanks but will not press Board until there is a future need for its production sometime in the future.
During Q3 LP OSB sold about 6 million feet to Asia and exported about 2% of its total sales volume.
Our Siding business makes a better story Q3 to Q3.
Net sales were up 7% and EBIT was improved 27% Q3 to Q3.
SmartSide volume was up 10% and our Canexel volume was off 29%.
And as we came off allocation as the Canadian housing market slowed down on the quarter.
With product mix included Q3 to Q3 pricing for SmartSide was up 5%; and for Canexel it was also up 5%.
One caution there is a reminder that Q3 of last year for Siding was a very very low quarter as we came out of the bump that we had in the second quarter as people were taking advantage of that Home Buyer Tax Credit.
Moving onto Engineered Wood EWP improved in a Q3 to Q3 comparison by about 35% on an EBIT basis but this also needs to be tempered with the realization that Q3 2010 was a horrible quarter in Engineered Wood Products in the marketplace.
Sales volumes of I-Joist LVL and LSL were all significantly better than Q3 of 2010.
The pricing was 3% and 4% worse respectively on I-Joist and then the LVL/LSL combination.
Year-to-date EBITDA for EWP although still negative has improved 79% largely due to growing international sales primarily LSL to Australia.
And the LSL/LVL volume combination year-to-date is up 14%.
In South America while we do not yet report part of this -- this part of the business separately both LP Chile and LP Brazil are having their best year so far.
Both are EBIT positive and contributing cash to LP.
In Chile both mills continue to run at near capacity and domestic demand remains strong.
We are under some pricing pressure in Chile from imports.
In Brazil we are operating our Ponta Grossa mill at about half of its capacity and the decision to start up the second thermal oil line there will probably put off -- be put off until Q2 of next year.
I just don't know yet and that will be based upon the business level at that time.
About 20% to 25% of the Brazil volume is going to China for interior use.
In terms of looking at the markets for the rest of this fourth quarter we expect to see the seasonal falloff in domestic markets across all product lines.
My sense right now is that Q1 of 2012 will be relatively slow.
The median housing start forecast for next year is currently a little bit over 650 000 new starts with the gross from -- the growth from this year being primarily in multi-family.
And current thinking for multi-family is for it to be up 40 000 to 50 000 units from 2011 into 2012.
In general I think the housing market remains weak about anyway you slice it.
We are still facing high unemployment slow household formation declines in home prices and continued foreclosures.
But we have seen a few positive indicators of late.
Existing home sales have been improving.
Home inventories for sale are going down in total and there is a slowdown in the number of foreclosures.
And then there was a nice bump in the September housing start numbers that were recently released.
As I finish my prepared remarks I want to comment on the other announcement that we've put out this morning and that is the organizational changes that we're making.
Obviously we are beginning a transition for me to eventually retire from LP.
I've recently completed 7 years of service as CEO with this company.
So bringing on a very confident Chief Financial Officer was a step in that planning process.
And then turning over the direct leadership for operations of the company to Curt as the new Chief Operating Officer is a logical step as well.
We plan to allow Sallie Bailey our new CFO time to get fully up to speed on LP and for Curt to have a time to put his operating hat back on before I firm up my departure with our Board of Directors.
When we think that we are ready we will firm that up and we will announce it and that's about all I can give you on that right now.
As I close I do want to acknowledge that this is the last time that I will be working this call with Curt in Curt's current role as CFO.
Sallie will become LP's new CFO in December.
And as Curt will be moving to Chief Operating Officer is a position that's been created temporarily for succession purposes and around my eventual retirement.
Curt and I have been doing these calls and all of our trips to New York now for 7 years together and then Curt worked them with my predecessor for the 7 years before that.
Going forward Curt will be on these calls but we'll be adding more of the color commentary as the Chief Operating Officer.
With that I'll turn it back to Curt to handle questions.
Thanks Rick.
With that Carissa let's go the take queue.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Michael Roxland of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Rick there was discussion on the last call about increased OSB exports out of North America into South America and the resulted impact on pricing.
You just mentioned in your remarks about pricing declines in Chile.
What did you actually see with respect to exports out of North America into Chile during the quarter? Just enough to knock the top off the market down there.
I don't have the exact volume in front of me but there is just enough volume to come in there and create a little bit more competition on the pricing end than what we had.
So it's not an extraordinary amount.
It's just enough to be -- to get our attention.
Research Division</strong> If housing remains as weak as it has in terms of any recovery do you expect the pace of exports out of North America to accelerate? I think what will happen at least in South America that will be determined by the value of the dollar.
If the dollar gets weak again then that obviously makes it easier.
I remember you got a substantial freight bill to go from here to down there so the dollar in that freight creates some protection.
So it is obviously easier to export out of the United States if the dollar is weaker.
Research Division</strong> Just on that freight what would you peg the freight cost at? It's about $100 bill.
Research Division</strong> Last question just how does this trend affect your thinking on expanding your footprint in South America if at all? Well we're still extremely happy with what's going on in South America and the transition that has occurred this year is basically that we have about a 50% conversion in Chile so far in terms of them and their new construction starting to build the way that we build up here.
If you can remember we started out at about 2% and then we were pretty happy when we got to about 23% or 24% but the earthquake last year proved that the ability for wood frame housing to sustain seismic activity completed that conversion for us.
So we look at the demand to be quite strong down there.
Our next challenge will be then to penetrate the building markets in Brazil and it's not out of the question for us within a couple of years to be thinking that we will want to build another mill in South America although we haven't identified exactly where yet.
So are still pretty bullish on that and it is an advantage being in country.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon of Vertical Research Partners.
First question is and maybe I missed this but the interest income number that tends to be around $4 million $5 million was way up at $17 million.
And I just didn't know what caused that.
Is that a one-time kind of pop? And then I guess a related question the share count went from like 131 to 135 and I've always thought of the diluted amount being somewhere around 142 143.
If that factored into it because when you get profitable and so just wanted to make sure I have the right share count when you ultimately do turn profitable.
Two answers to your question.
In the interest income we did sell a piece of our auction rate security portfolio.
We have taken the writedown and the writeup through other comprehensive income so you reversed and flowed through the income about $15 million.
So that was the sale of those ARS [auction rate security].
So what we have left on the books is about $0.5 million for about a $24 million face value.
And what we did when we sold those and we did not compromise our position in the lawsuits that we have outstanding currently but we expect to recover.
On the share count the increase in the share count was due to the warrant exercises associated with the 2017 notes.
And they're still about 4.5 -- about 3.5 million shares are yet to be exercised on those warrants.
But if you add that to the 139 shares you're about right at the 143 share count ultimately.
And when you look at the interest income as we go forward because I know there's also some of the timber notes in there as well.
Should that revert back to around the $4 million per quarter level? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly of CLFA.
This is Tom Natt [ph] on for Mark.
First question was can you provide us with an update on the progress you're making on the building code changes in Brazil? I think the last update you gave was that you're hoping to have make some progress on spruce and walls [ph] by the middle of next year.
Is the timeline still the same? And what are the biggest remaining hurdles for those changes to be instituted? Well we've got one Tom pretty recently I think within the last 6 weeks which is an approval to put panels with wood framing.
The approval that we had right before that was an approval to put panels with steel framing.
What we have learned through this whole process is they don't approve an entire building system.
They improve -- they approve component uses.
So we've had to regroup over the last year and go at this in a slightly different way.
So we're currently working now on getting approval to construct SIPs which is a structurally insulated panel which is like the Styrofoam or the foam in the middle and you put a piece of OSB on either side of it you make a sandwich and that is being heavily used in the Chilean market right now for construction.
And then the other approval that we're working on is for a use for stucco walls to use the OSB as the panel behind the stucco application.
So we have 2 now.
To repeat we have the approval for putting panels with steel framing we have the approval for putting panels with wood framing and now we're working on SIP approval and stucco approval.
You may not have been on the call before but I explained in an earlier call that we've had to adapt our strategy to the bureaucracy of Brazil and instead of going in like we did in Chile and just converting the way that they build we're having -- we have an adaptation strategy now which is how do we put our products into the way that they build and create a critical mass which then hopefully will allow us to go to a conversion strategy.
In kind of in that same vein with the approvals that you've gotten can you talk a little bit about the export business from Brazil? I think last quarter you mentioned the goal of getting 50 million board feet to China by the fourth quarter.
Is that still reasonable or does that move up or down? I think it's reasonable and I think we'll probably -- I'm talking cubic meters now.
And to convert to million feet you need to multiply the cubic meters by about 1.12.
I think we'll probably do 15 000 cubic meters in Q4 to China.
Your next question comes the line of Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Any particular reasons why OSB in the West was as weak as it was? You know that's one of the key strategies for the OSB team is to figure that out.
It's interesting if you look at it the Western Canadian price has typically in the last 1.5 year been lower than the others.
Although when there is a disruption it reacts very quickly in the positive direction.
But we can't point to anything in particular that drove that lower price in the third quarter.
Now in reaction to that you heard Rick say that we did make the decision to indefinitely curtail the Dawson Creek facility for our production of OSB.
We reacted to it from the supply side because we don't understand the demand side.
Inc.</strong> And on the Dawson Creek I think you also mentioned that you had essentially directed that volume to Peace Valley which you don't fully own.
How do you think about when you're closing a facility which is wholly owned and essentially putting the business into something that is not wholly owned? Do you get some beneficial offset for that decision? Well no.
We actually look at it on a delivered cost basis how can we get the products to our customers on the lowest delivery cost.
And then we obviously work in consultation with our partner Canfor which we have a very good relationship with and we do not attempt to maximize our profitability based on ownership.
Inc.</strong> And then lastly I believe Georgia-Pacific had previously indicated they were going to bring up a facility in Florida in December.
Do you happen to know the status of that? Is that being delayed? Or are there any other offsets that you're hearing about? Well the 2 public announcements that we heard was they would start up their South Carolina mill by the end of the year then there was an announcement recently that they have delayed that.
That's all I've seen publicly.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Curt Stevens for closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
And again thank you for attending the call.
As always Mike and Becky will be available for follow up.
And with that maybe you should give out the replay information Carissa and we're done.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Louisiana-Pacific Corporation Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Cathy and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call to Mr.
Rick Frost Chief Executive Officer.
Please proceed.
Good morning everyone and congratulations to all the Giants fans.
Welcome to LP's fourth quarter 2011 earnings call.
I am Rick Frost the CEO of LP Building Products.
And this morning I am joined by our new CFO Sallie Bailey who is participating for the first time in LP's reporting process and Sallie joined the company the second week of December.
Also in the room this morning are Curt Stevens our recently appointed Chief Operating Officer who is here to back Sallie up since she wasn't on board for most of the quarter; and Mike Kinney who along with Becky Barckley handles our Investor Relations.
I've also asked Rick Olszewski our EVP of Sales and Marketing Specialties in South America to sit in.
Since this is the first time that we have broken out South America into a reporting segment I thought I'd have Rick be on hand to field any questions that you may have on South America.
So now I'll turn it over to Sallie Bailey to discuss the fourth quarter and the full year of 2011 and then I will come back on and offer some color on the quarter and a few thoughts about how 2012 is looking and feeling this early in the year.
Sallie welcome.
Thank you Rick.
I'll begin with a review of the financial results for the fourth quarter and the full year 2011.
This will be followed by some comments on the performance of the individual segments and selected balance sheet items.
As we have done in the past we have opened up to the public and we're doing the webcast.
The webcast can be accessed at www.lpcorp.com.
Additionally to help with the discussion we have provided a presentation with supplemental information that should be reviewed in conjunction with the earnings release.
I will be referencing these slides in my comments.
We have also filed an 8-K this morning with some supplemental information.
We will file our annual Form 10-K at the end of the month.
I want to remind all the participants about the forward-looking statements comment on Slide 2 of the presentation.
Please also be aware of the discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial information included on Slide 3 of the presentation.
The appendix attached to the presentation has some necessary reconciliations that have been supplemented by the Form 8-K filing we made this morning.
Rather than reading these 2 statements I incorporate them with this reference.
Before I get started on the detailed discussion of LP's financial results for the fourth quarter and full year I want to make some higher level comments and observations.
Total housing starts increased in the fourth quarter so that the full year eked out a slight gain compared to last year.
However for the important single-family portion of starts they were down 9% compared to last year the lowest since these statistics have been collected over 60 years ago.
Our operating results for the fourth quarter after adjusting for non-cash impairment charge at our U.S.
GreenFiber cellulose insulation joint venture were relatively unchanged from last quarter.
There was quite a bit of movement in the effective tax rates for the various quarters and the full years.
This makes the comparability of a net loss more difficult and I will provide some clarification in my upcoming comments.
For the first time we are reporting our South American operations as a separate segment and I think you should be pleased with the results.
We ended the year with a strong balance sheet and have a bit of a tailwind behind us as housing activity is showing some signs of life.
With that let me go into the details.
Please refer to Slide 4 of the presentation for a discussion of the fourth quarter 2011 results compared to the third quarter of 2011 and the fourth quarter of 2010.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 we recorded a net loss of $47 million or $0.34 per diluted share.
Net sales from continuing operations were $312 million for the quarter.
For the fourth quarter of 2010 we reported a net loss of $7 million or $0.05 per diluted share and sales from continuing operations of $316 million.
The adjusted loss from continuing operations for the quarter is $46 million or $0.33 per share compared to $15.5 million or $0.12 per share in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The change in the adjusted loss primarily relates to recording lower investment income in the fourth quarter of 2011.
We recorded $4 million of investment income in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $23 million of investment income in the fourth quarter of 2010 when we recognized recovery on the sale of some of our auction rate securities.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was a loss of $14 million in the quarter compared to income of $200 000 in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Included in the adjusted EBITDA number is an after-tax impairment of $3.9 million at our U.S.
GreenFiber Joint Venture.
Excluding this impairment adjusted EBITDA is a loss of $10 million.
There was a significant difference in the tax rate on continuing operations between the third and fourth quarters which led to widely different reported net income despite relatively similar adjusted losses from operation.
The effective tax rate on continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2011 was 7%.
This quarter we recorded several discrete items which impacted the tax rate.
We increased our tax reserve on uncertain tax positions associated with our foreign debt structure and we could not record a deduction for the expense associated with the U.S.
GreenFiber asset impairment.
The effective tax rate on continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2010 was 77%.
This rate was due to the truing up of the full year tax benefit rate in the fourth quarter.
For the full year the tax benefit rate on continuing operations was 17% in 2011 as compared to a benefit rate of 41% in 2010.
In 2010 we were able to take a benefit from our Canadian tax losses.
In 2011 we were unable to take a benefit from our losses on our income statement.
On Slide 5 we present the reconciliation of special charges on a quarterly basis.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 the only item identified is a loss on impairment on -- of long-lived assets of $900 000.
In 2010 the largest item is related to the gain that we recognized on the sale of a portion of our auction rate securities portfolio.
We had a similar sale in the third quarter of 2011.
The impact of looking at our results without these special items is an adjusted loss from operation of $0.33 per share at the tax rate on continuing operations of 7% for the quarter.
Slide 6 presents the full year 2011 results compared to 2010.
For 2011 we are reporting a net loss of $171 million.
Net sales from continuing operations were $1.4 billion.
For the same period last year we reported net loss of $39 million on a similar level of sales.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations is a loss of $17 million compared to positive EBITDA of $82 million for 2010.
The most significant driver of the change in EBITDA was the lower average OSB price.
The lower average OSB selling price decreased our earnings by $96 million on the year.
The tax rate -- the tax benefit rate on continuing operations for the year was 17% as compared to 41% in the prior year.
Slide 7 presents the reconciliation of special items for the full year.
The most significant item is the impairment we recorded in the third quarter on our Houlton Maine facility.
Offsetting this was the reduction on our contingency reserves around the ABTco class action settlement and the realized gain on the sale of auction rate securities.
Moving to Slide 8 and the review of our business unit results starting with OSB.
OSB recorded an operating loss of $16 million in the quarter compared to a loss of $13 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
For the quarter volume was flat with average selling price slightly down.
Adjusted EBITDA was lower by $4 million which was driven by higher raw material cost principally resins and energy.
For the year OSB had an operating loss of $64 million compared to income of $26 million in 2010.
Adjusted EBITDA for the comparable period was a loss of $26 million in 2011 and income of $64 million in 2010.
The impact of pricing between the years was $91 million and accounted for all of the change as operational efficiencies offset higher raw material cost.
Slide 9 reports the results of our Siding business.
This segment concludes our SmartSide and Canexel siding products and commodity OSB produced in our Hayward mill.
For the fourth quarter Siding had operating income of $6 million which was lower than the $12 million recorded in the same quarter last year.
The decline in operating results between quarters was tied to the increase in raw materials and inventory adjustments by our customers that reduced shipments in the quarter.
For the year Siding had operating income of $42 million compared to $51 million in 2010.
Adjusted EBITDA was $59 million in 2011 and $70 million in 2010.
The reduction in full year results is tied to increases in raw material cost net of sales price increases of about $4 million and lower OSB pricing of over $5 million.
The Engineered Wood Products business results are on Slide 10.
This segment includes I-Joist Laminated Strand Lumber produced at our Houlton Maine facility Laminated Veneer Lumber plus other related products.
This segment also includes the sale of I-Joist and LVL products produced by the Abitibi joint venture or under a sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood.
For the fourth quarter EWP recorded a loss of $3.6 million compared to a loss of $5.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was a loss of $1.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to a loss of $1.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Volumes of I-Joist were down 4% while volumes of LVL and LSL were down 6% compared to the same quarter last year.
Pricing was down 1% in I-Joist and 3% in LVL and LSL due to changes in product mix with individual prices remaining constant.
For the year EWP recorded an operating loss of $15 million compared to a loss of $21.3 million in 2010.
Adjusted EBITDA was a loss of $2.4 million in 2011 compared to $7.6 million in 2010.
The improvement was due primarily to increased international shipments and further penetration of LSL.
Beginning this quarter we are showing South America as a separate segment which highlights the increasing significance of this market to LP.
Slide 11 of the presentation is a summary of the South American results.
For the fourth quarter the South American segment recorded profit of $1.6 million compared to a loss of $400 000 in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $4.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $2.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Volumes in Chile were up 37% over the same quarter last year and up 30% in Brazil as we continue to penetrate local markets.
Sales were down 8% in Chile and 1% in Brazil.
The decline in pricing is primarily related to the impact of the translation from local currency to U.S.
dollars as the dollar strengthened.
For the year South America had operating income of $11.6 million compared to $7.2 million in 2010 adjusted EBITDA with income of $23.2 million in 2011 compared to $17.2 million in 2010.
While there is no slide for our other building products segment the results are shown in the selected segment information filed as part of the 8-K and I'll make a few comments.
These results primarily reflect our Molding business the U.S.
GreenFiber cellulose insulation business and closed facilities.
Overall we are showing a loss of $5.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 as compared to income of $1.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
During the fourth quarter our U.S.
GreenFiber Joint Venture recorded an asset impairment of $3.9 million after tax which is included in this slide.
For the year other building products recorded an operating loss of $11 million compared to a loss of $1 million in the same period of 2010.
This was primarily related to GreenFiber's operating losses due to higher paper pricing and material cost as well as the asset impairment.
General corporate and other expenses were $17 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $18 million in the comparable quarter of 2010.
For the full year general corporate and other expenses were lower at $66 million as compared to $73 million in 2010.
The lower expenses primarily related to lower accruals for incentive payouts.
Key balance sheet statistics on Slide 12 show the continued strength of our balance sheet.
Cash cash equivalents investments and restricted cash of $353.6 million working capital of $517.5 million net cash of $113.1 million.
In addition to the $340 million of cash we have on our balance sheet we have approximately $75 million of liquidity on our asset-based loan facility.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $21.4 million as compared to $14.5 million in 2010.
And during the year we provided funding to our joint ventures of $9.6 million.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Rick for his comment.
Thanks Sallie.
Let me just make one correction there.
Capital expenditures for the year were $21.4 million not for the quarter.
As is customary I'll begin with our safety performance.
LP ended up 2011 with a total incident rate of 0.47 compared to our all-time low last year of 0.46.
Industry-wide that is another excellent result in our journey towards 0 accidents at LP.
Our Lean Six Sigma program continues to drive our continuous improvement efforts at LP.
For 2012 we achieved a 6.6:1 return and this is a calculation of benefits from the improvement projects divided by the cost to support those projects.
That amounted to about $17 million in cost savings in 2011.
We had over 20% of our workforce participate in improvement projects last year.
Capital spending.
As Sallie said we did complete the year with CapEx of about $20 million exclusive of the funds that we spent to complete the purchase of the Brazil mill.
I did promise you CapEx guidance for 2012 on our last call and so our budget for 2012 will be about $28 million or less.
That's about $25 million in mostly maintenance CapEx for our plants and then about $3 million in roads in Canada.
This will be our fourth year of heavily constrained capital spending as 2009 was $10 million 2010 was $15 million and 2011 we finished up at about $20 million.
Moving now to raw materials.
Our 2011 versus 2010 raw material increases came in about $26 million higher year-over-year.
And that's a price-to-price calculation based upon 2011 volumes.
Wood amounted -- or accounted for about 20% of that increase.
Waxes binders and resins were a little over 50% of that increase.
And zinc borate and paper overlay on our Siding business was another 20%.
And then electricity went up almost $2 million last year.
Our current expectations for 2012 raw materials cost versus 2011 are much better.
Actually we expect them to be up only about $4 million which is much much less would be in about half of that in resins waxes and binders and energy the other half of that $4 million.
This of course could become worse if tensions in the Middle East cause oil prices to take off.
Now I want to make just a few comments on each one of our major businesses and I'll begin with OSB.
Q4 2011 to Q4 2010 were basically an overlay of each other with the cost of manufacture being the difference.
And that was mostly raw materials and some additional downtime in the fourth quarter.
Average sales price was about the same and the volumes sold Q4 to Q4 were about the same.
During the fourth quarter we did complete the ramp down of our Dawson Creek mill in British Columbia and we are now only running the TechShield line at Dawson and the press is not running.
During the quarter our effective operating rate for the OSB business was 68%.
And going forward when I offer you that number in 2012 we will eliminate Dawson Creek's capacity from that calculation.
So obviously that effective operating rate will go up this year probably about 7% if we compare the numbers I gave you in '11 compared to '12.
During the quarter we did export a little bit over 6 million feet to Asia from North America.
And for the year we exported about 18 million feet to Asia.
In Siding we had a pretty poor quarter.
Siding profits were off Q4 of 2010 by a little bit over $5 million.
Over 60% of this was due to raw materials increases and production cost.
The rest was a result of lower sales volume.
Although our strand product volume was actually up Q4 to Q4 our fiber substrate volume was down marginally and our Canexel volume was down significantly.
I think I mentioned on the last call that as the Canadian housing market did slow down in the middle part of 2011 the impact of that was that Canexel came off of allocation.
And so as our Canexel customers found volume to be more readily available to them then they continued to lean out their inventories for the rest of the year.
That was quite significant with our Canexel volume being down over 50% in Q4.
The leaning out of the channel should be completed -- should have been completed by the end of the year and we are currently experiencing our customers to begin the reordering process going forward.
We are pleased with what we have experienced in orders so far in January.
Year-to-year 2010 compared to 2011 total Siding sales volume was up about 1%.
The raw materials increases were up about $14 million and the price increases that we did put in last year did not totally offset all of those increases.
Along with that the profit from OSB made in our Haywood mill was $5 million less than what was made in 2010 due to the lower OSB pricing.
Moving now to engineered wood.
EWP again improved in a Q4 2010 to Q4 2011 comparison.
EBIT losses were 34% less on 6% less sales.
The improvement came on the cost side and mostly in our LSL product made at the Houlton mill as Q4 2011 production was up over 50% against Q4 2010.
Year-over-year engineered wood lost almost $6 million less in the EBIT on a net sales increase of $11 million.
And most of that progress was made by 2 things: growing our international sales by 43% with profitable volume; and better absorption of cost at our Houlton LSL plant due to volume growth of about 38% year-over-year.
Sallie talked about South America.
South America has finally become large enough that our accounting rules now force us to report it separately as a segment.
And I must admit some personal pride in this division as I've started working on establishing a South American business for LP over 10 years ago as a project.
South American sales for 2011 were $145 million versus $125 million in 2010 which is up 16%.
Chile sales were $89 million and Brazil sales of $56 million.
Combined EBIT was $16 million and combined adjusted EBITDA was $23 million.
Both mills in Chile are currently running full and the Brazil mill is running at about 50% of its rated capacity.
Most of the Chilean production is staying in Chile and about 20% of Brazil's volume is going to China at this time.
Our largest opportunity in South America right now is to figure out how to increase the profitable volume in Brazil to utilize the additional available capacity of the Ponta Grossa mill.
I'll now switch my thoughts to looking ahead.
2011 ended up being the year where single family starts were actually 9% less than in 2010 and the lowest as Sallie said since the statistic has been kept.
Single and multifamily starts for 2011 combined started out at about 607 000 per the record keepers.
I feel that we have seen the bottom in the U.S.
More importantly than what I think though the consensus of forecaster projections concurs with that.
The consensus of forecasters published by the APA in January is 692 000 for 2012.
That's 460 000 single family which is up from 428 000 in 2011.
And their consensus for 2013 is 896 000 combined single family and multifamily.
Significant to us is that these forecasts went up from December to January and we now have several months in a row that the forecasters have upped their projections after living through about 3.5 years where every month of projections were lower than the month before.
As I have said at the last 2 conferences that I spoke at LP made its operating plan for 2012 based upon 625 000 starts.
So we are conservative and cautious going into 2012 and we do certainly hope that we are being too conservative based upon the other forecast.
January has started out pretty well for us.
OSB prices have printed up some since certainly December although they did move down last week.
And our Siding orders are a little ahead of our plans so far this year.
So we have to wait and see how much of that is influenced by our customers' inventory replenishment after distribution drained down their inventories for the end of the year and also recognizing the impact of a very mild winter weather in December and January.
Remember this time last year we were all fooled with a good January and then the rest of the year sputtered out.
We made some assumptions last fall around the volumes and pricing for our mills that produce for the western and Asian markets in OSB.
That resulted in us shutting down the Dawson Creek facility indefinitely and also reducing log inventories into our Peace Valley joint venture.
So for the next 6 months there will be very little panel to export towards Asia.
Our focus for 2012 will be to continue to protect our balance sheet our cash position and to be cautiously optimistic about the coming recovery.
We will continue to limit our CapEx spending to a minimum and our sales force will continue to pursue profitable business wins in this depressed market.
A lot more indicators of housing recovery are currently going the right way albeit slowly at this time.
So with that said I'll turn it back over to Sallie for the Q&amp;A.
Great.
Thank you Rick.
Cathy if you could we're ready for questions and if you can go with the queue.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of George Staphos of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I'm here filling for Mike.
Congratulations on the improvement in performance over the last few quarters.
I guess the first question I had Rick if you look at the capacity that you're currently idling -- really I mean you have enough available capacity right now.
If you found that in fact your forecast and the economists' forecast wound up still being too conservative how quickly do you think you could restart that idle capacity? Would it take a couple of quarters? Or do you think it would be different than that? Well this is one of the things where we think we're slightly advantaged George.
In our mills that are currently running but not running full from the time that we make a decision to add a shift it takes us approximately 30 to 35 days.
So if you got a mill that's running 3 shifts and we don't want to add the fourth from the time that we make the decision to do that that's about how long it would take.
So filling up current mills is pretty easy.
Peace Valley would be an exception to that our joint venture because as I mentioned and I did mention that for the purpose of your question we really have the logs that we're going to have in there until about July.
So we won't have the logs to be able to put a fourth shift on if we need to.
And that was as a result of a decision that was made between the partners back in November to control our inventory cost.
But the mills which are running partially full I think I answered your question.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And the next question I had on industry capacity to the extent that you can comment on this and perhaps you can't there's been some discussion that some of the mills that had been shut or idle that had been since sold [indiscernible] comes to mind it might restart what amount of capacity expansion x LP x do your plant envision for the industry for 2012? What are you sort of budgeting for? We -- you mean a mill starting up that's not running now? Research Division</strong> That is correct in aggregate.
We don't see that happening in 2012 I mean as we look at the landscape.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two last questions and I'll turn it over.
One there was a warranty settlement for about $5 million if I read it correctly in the quarter.
What was behind that? And also Sallie you mentioned the tax reserves related to your international debt position can you give us a bit more color on that? I don't think we had any settlements in the quarter.
We did have an impairment at our GreenFiber facility in the quarter.
So we had settlement for -- in the last quarter we had some settlements on claims but not this quarter.
Research Division</strong> So Sallie I'm looking at the cash flow December 2011 fourth quarter there's a $5 million cash settlement of warranted net of accruals.
What is that then? Those are just our normal cash payments.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And on the tax reserve? Yes.
On the tax reserves I'm sure you're familiar with FIN 48 which is where we have to evaluate our positions relative to what regulators would have to say.
And they're just normal FIN 48 reserves.
Our next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess just sticking on taxes for a moment it was obviously quite lumpy in 2011.
Can you give us any sense of guidance either for the fourth -- first quarter or all of 2012 how we should be thinking about tax rate? Yes sure Gail.
It's tough when we're operating at these low levels of income and we have some of these impairments running through our financial statement.
So the best guidance I can give is to use our rate that's someplace between 20% and 25% at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Where -- just in terms of the outlook in the business when you speak to your customers are they showing the same type of enthusiasm that you're seeing come out in the consensus housing start forecast? Gail we were just having a discussion about that before the call.
It actually feels and sounds in our interaction with our customers better than it's actually happening.
We have IBS this week which is International Builders' Show.
We have a bunch of people going down there and we'll be able to have a real in-depth look at that after the first 5 weeks of the year when our sales people get back from that conference.
But there's a lot of enthusiasm out there although it's cautious but it just feels a heck of a lot different than it did a year ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Rick your comments on inventory and replenishment was that specifically in terms of the issue in Siding? Or can you just -- if not can you speak more broadly on what you think your customer inventory positions are? Well we still think they're pretty darn low.
And we've had a good experience with reordering.
Like I said we're a little bit ahead of our internal plan for January.
Our winter buys were completed successfully.
But as you are probably familiar when you have a product on allocation what the psychological phenomenon there is the customer tends to order it whether he's selling it at that moment or not because he's not sure that he's going to be able to get more.
When you come off of allocation then the customer figures out "Jeez if I order it next week I can get it next week.
So therefore I don't need to carry as much." And that's really what we had to work through in the Canexel product in Siding during the fourth quarter.
Now that they work through that their reorder points and then they said the winter buy which affects that product went extremely well for us in December and then our order file is good now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of OSB inventories they are well positioned and if the kind of relatively mild weather holds out do you think some people could be cut short? Well it kind of depends on what happens over the next couple of months whether anybody will be cut short.
Right now people order products.
They can get it.
And either the system will have to get out of balance or there will have to be a spring build which may put some pressure on the system.
If there is additional volume like I said for us we won't be able to satisfy that like in the west out of Peace Valley because we don't have the logs.
We've got to run 3 shifts there.
So that's what we've got to sell.
Our next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon of Vertical Research Partners.
First question is can you just help us a little bit reconcile -- in the segment level numbers further back in the release you mentioned the $5 million -- $5.1 million operating loss for the quarter and $10.8 million for the year.
And yet when we look in the equity and loss of unconsolidated affiliates it's $8.4 million and $25.1 million.
So it's a much larger number.
Can you just help us understand how those 2 interact? Yes.
So let me just get to the slide.
So we've got -- on the Siding you see the $6.1 million operating loss? [indiscernible] Yes.
It's the other I'm talking about.
Yes the $5.1 million.
Chip let me take a shot.
This is Curt.
If you look at the operating segment that includes a couple of things.
It includes our GreenFiber when we took the impairment.
So the major difference between the quarters is the impairment that we took on goodwill for GreenFiber.
It also includes our Molding business.
It includes facilities that have been closed.
So the carrying cost of some closed facilities.
The major difference there between the quarters is related to that goodwill impairment.
And then the equity and loss of unconsolidated affiliates that $8.4 million there that includes some other of our joint ventures specifically the Peace Valley joint venture.
Got you.
And I guess the other one with the -- I think it's Abitibi as well.
That's right.
There's a couple there 2 or 3 in EWP.
Got you okay.
And then as you look at -- the one thing I just -- not to get picky on the numbers but if you look at the third quarter Slide 6 in that case you said year-to-date the sort of adjusted EPS was minus $0.58.
And then this quarter it was $0.33.
And yet for the year it's $0.99.
So it actually went up by $0.41 even though you're saying on this quarter slide that the change is $0.33 on Slide 5 and the $0.99 I'm getting on Slide 7.
Is there something that we're missing in there? No.
Chip I mean what's really occurring in all of this is the impact of the tax rate.
It's just so dramatic.
Okay.
Got you.
And then the next question is -- I keep -- you're talking about the green -- the joint venture write-down this quarter.
Was that $900 000 or $3.9 million I think? No.
It's -- after tax it's $3.9 million.
So it's incorporated in that line you and I just talked about on the equity and loss of unconsolidated affiliates.
Of the $8.4 million $3.9 million is the asset impairment we discussed.
But because of our GAAP reconciliation we're not actually allowed to call that out on Slide 5.
So that's why I talked about it to alert you all to it.
The $900 000 that you're referring to on Slide 5 that's just a normal loss on the sale of impairment of long-lived assets and it relates to our assets that are held for sale.
Okay.
So if we in our opinion thought this was one time then that $0.33 would be more like $0.30? But -- you're right.
That's correct but that's also using -- when you think about it Chip there is low tax rate that includes all of the FIN 48 reserves.
Okay got you.
And then one other one.
We had a -- if you go to Slide 14 we had a new line on here I guess the current portion of long-term debt and short-term notes payable -- I'm sorry -- yes it's that line.
And what's stuck in that $13.2 million just from the balance sheet is the part that's tied to the $7.9 million tied to the limited recourse notes which of course we never -- we didn't like I think in some other quarters that number in current liabilities.
But I thought what's interesting is that you didn't choose to include the asset that's tied to that the $10 million in the notes receivable.
Are those 2 -- are we to believe that those 2 are not related? Or were you just being kind of conservative on this measurement? No.
It is included Chip.
It's in the notes receivable from asset sales where it says current and long term.
Okay.
So it is in there.
I got you.
That's right because there's no other way we can really see that.
That's a good point.
Okay it's very helpful.
And I guess the last question is on the mill down in Alabama Clarke County.
Again is it still I guess fair to assume that if one day you guys woke up and decided we need to bring this thing back on is this still basically a 9-month kind of process before you would see that fully up and running? Is that still the kind of timeframe we should think about? Yes.
I think I've been through that 3 or 4 times with somewhere between 7 and 9 months depending on the time of the year.
Certainly we wouldn't be running full in 7.
Okay.
And it would seem to -- I think from what you're suggesting that that would be further down your list of what you would do in terms of -- I mean unless you care to share with us sort of what you think would be the most likely restart the second most likely restart if -- when the market is there.
I don't think that I've said that publicly Chip.
Forgive me for not doing that.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> First question there's been some fairly divergent behavior in OSB prices regionally.
In particular Western Canada seems to have gone down in price a lot and now it's gone back up in price.
Is the rallying in price related to Dawson Creek coming offline? Or are there other things that have been going on? And if you could just remind us what your exposure regionally is in OSB.
Well the -- I can't give you causality on that.
I can tell you that we lived through just a horrible year out there where that was the bottom-sucking region in the entire United States for a long long time.
We hung down in there to 140 range.
West Coast has historically been a dumping ground and it sure acted like that last year.
It did seem to tighten up beginning I guess late November and in December.
What was the second part of your question? What's our exposure.
Our exposure.
We put about 30% of our product into the West Coast markets last year.
So that was our exposure.
And so strategically with pricing the way it was for us into those markets last year I felt somewhat disadvantaged where we have always looked at our geographic footprint as a real strategic advantage last year under that pricing scenario in the West where it was -- there was such a divergence between it and the rest of the world.
That didn't help us last year at all.
Inc.</strong> And now with the Dawson Creek closed do you just end up producing more products from facilities that are in the region? Or is that going to likely shift your distribution in 2012? I don't think it's going to shift that much because we picked up some extra box business out there.
So we should be able to handle that up to about the same amount.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just separately could you give us an update where you stand in terms of NOLs and also pension at the end of the year? I think it's better to wait until we get through the rest of the year and get into our 10-K filing at the end of the year and we'll have all the details then.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then one last thing then.
On the Canexel clearly things seem to have stabilized and volumes are getting better.
Do you -- are we going to be able to see price recovery? Or is it more a stabilization of where things are? Well price never went down in Canexel.
What we did is we had just -- we had to let the customers work through their inventories.
I think at least from what we see through the first half of the year we should be back more or less on almost an allocation basis for the first half of the year.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So that was your mix et cetera? Yes.
The rest of it is mix and currency.
Our big problem there was we just weren't able to raise price enough in that product to cover all of the raw material increases.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Rick a couple of quick things.
You had said in an earlier call that your goal for Asia was about 2.5 million square foot a month.
So we should assume that that's lower now? Yes.
At least in the first half of the year it doesn't look like we're going to have volume out of the West to go that way based upon the log decisions that we made back in November.
So most of our wood to Asia -- well probably about all of it is going to come from Brazil.
We're currently shipping about 20% of our production out of Brazil to China.
Research Division</strong> Okay helpful.
Second on Brazil can -- are there any updates on the building code changes down there? This is Rick Olszewski.
We continue to work with the regulatory agencies in Brazil to get codes approved there.
It is more of an uphill battle than our experience had been in Chile historically but we are making progress.
In fact we had over 50 dealers in Brazil promoting various types in construction utilizing OSB in an adaptation mode there.
So we are getting these things approved gradually.
That's about double the number of dealers that we had in 2010.
So slow and steady progress and profitable there.
So we think there's a lot more upside there and we're confident that we'll continue to do that.
Research Division</strong> So for just one more question part of the weakness in the stock today I assume has to do with the cash balances being down.
Working capital was okay.
Do you have a sense of what we should be expecting in working capital in the next couple of quarters? And are you doing anything different in 2012 with how you're managing cash? I'm going to -- I'll take that Mark.
This is Curt.
Q1 is typically where we use working capital.
We use it for 3 reasons: one our receivable balance is very low at the end of the year because we run -- have less than 20 days sales outstanding.
We really don't sell much in the latter part of the month of December.
So we build up our receivables balance.
The second thing is we have the log inventories in our northern mills.
We've got to fill up the log deck basically to run during the second quarter and the first part of the third quarter.
And then the third piece is there is some inventory build on our Siding business.
We can't satisfy the seasonal demand unless we build ahead in the first and second quarter.
So we would expect that seasonal increase in working capital in Q1 and we expect to recover a big portion of that in Q2 and Q3.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Quinn of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on Asian sales.
Just wondering if that's -- are those sales profitable? Or is that something you're doing to develop the market? And if you could give us some outlook on where you expect China to be out in 5 years' time? Well I'll skip the 5 years' time one.
One of our problems that we've had with developing the Asian markets is it seems to be a spot market.
You can sell in there one time and have a margin and you can sell in there another time or get orders and you will not have a margin.
This is exclusive of our product coming out of Brazil.
So they are very very price sensitive over there.
And it's more of a dumping ground right now.
I don't mean dumping in the terms of anything illegal but it is more of a concept of the dissolving or absorbing your fixed cost at your plant because the pricing isn't all that 50.
So it's not -- it's -- you can't count on the pricing enough to actually -- at least we can't actually dedicate decisions to go in over there.
A country like Korea if you will one week you get a price that you'll accept and the next week you'll get a price that doesn't make any sense for you to take that sale.
Did that give you enough color? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes -- no that's helpful.
Just wondering what your customers in China are using that product for? Is that single family? Is that multi? Any idea on use of the OSB product? Yes.
It's actually being used for decorative interior construction if you can imagine.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's a big leap there.
It's a different thing for you and I but it's a very valued product and they really really like it.
They do things like build their cases for their shrines and inside interior decorative consumption not construction.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last question just on the change in U.S.
housing mix from more of a percentage of multi to single family we've seen a pronounced shift over the last 5 years.
Do you see that change being a permanent thing? And yes I guess that's the question.
I do not.
I think that we've seen the very large jump in multifamily in 2011.
We expect another large jump in 2012.
But I do not believe that the American dream is dead and I think this is simply a reaction to the -- all of the foreclosures.
People got to have a place to live.
It's a reaction to the 23 million kids or multi-generational families that we have where the first step out of the house is into an apartment.
So I think that this is going to last about 2 to 3 years and then we're going to be back and seeing a lot more starter homes.
So that would be my guess.
I mean you look at home ownership it's only down to what? About 68% from an all-time high of -- excuse me 66% from an all-time high of 68% or 69%.
So I think it's a passing fad.
It's not particularly good for manufacturers like us because multifamily uses a lot less probably about 40% of the OSB that a single family would use.
But it's -- I think it's going to run its course in probably about 2 years.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover of D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> A number of my questions have been asked but it sounds like the challenge in Brazil currently is code related.
But with the Olympics and World Cup coming on I assume there must be some -- a lot of infrastructure.
Are we to infer that concrete form is being done with plywood? Is that an opportunity for you? Steve I mean in Brazil we have a very robust economy.
It backed off a little bit last quarter but it's still growing.
We have a good market to sell into.
Our traditional industrial application of OSB is still growing in the country.
We expanded our point of sales for OSB into other parts of the country to over 500 outlets in 2011.
And so we're seeing growth in packaging and in fencing materials and other non-framed construction applications that is helping our business there.
And then we are also implementing a strategy of using OSB in existing construction applications not necessarily framed construction as you and I would think about it but roof systems floor systems that kind of thing to get the product introduced as a construction material.
The regulatory environment in Brazil is very different than other countries in a sense that you have to get these things approved one at a time and then the builders themselves have to get them approved.
We are working on a couple of big projects one in the social housing area and one in the private area that are a significant number of homes.
And that will be our big breakthrough when we're able to achieve that which we expect to do in 2012.
I won't go through the litany of all the regulatory issues that we face but we've made a lot of progress had 6 or 7 varied key approvals in the last 12 months and continuing to work on 2 or 3 key approvals.
Still very confident that we can do that in the next few years.
Research Division</strong> Well I certainly appreciate that color but is concrete form potential for you? Do you need to put some kind of facing on it? Or is that not a market right now? We do sell some product into concrete form.
And yes it does require a remanufactured-type product that is based on OSB and it can be based on other materials as well MDF and plywood and other kinds of alternative competitive products.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> You'll have to excuse me if I ask something that's come up before.
I'm on a couple of calls here this morning.
Rick can you first -- well can you explain to me what could be going on up in New Brunswick with this [indiscernible] situation? I just find the notion that somebody's restarting a mill that was shut 5 to 7 years ago in this market just mind boggling.
I would just have to agree with you.
I cannot explain it but I think P.T.
Barnum had some comment about that.
Research Division</strong> And do you have any sense of how far off they may be from restarting that mill? No.
I really don't.
I haven't been able to make sense of it and I don't even know why or what they would make in this market but...
Research Division</strong> I mean just operationally I think Weyerhaeuser had shut that mill in '05 or '07 so I'm just trying to understand.
I mean it just seems like you might have rust and other things.
It may be pretty difficult to just try to restart it physically.
Well I visited that mill several times in my career and it's an interesting mill -- the highway going into town goes right in between the log yard and the mill.
It's quite an interesting facility.
But no I can't add any color on that one.
Research Division</strong> Okay right.
I do appreciate the detail on South America this morning.
I watch that business pretty carefully.
I wondered if you could give us a sense of where or sort of the -- your relative operating rates are in the 2 Chilean mills versus Brazil? Yes.
In Chile we're operating both of our mills in Pangui and at Lautaro at a very high utilization and we're actually importing some material from North America and from Brazil into Chile to meet the demand there.
The market in Chile is very very strong.
The economy is good there.
The reconstruction is starting to kick in.
So both of those mills -- basically we are selling everything that we can make in Chile.
And as part of our commitment to supporting that market in the long term we will import if the market demands it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Brazil? And in Brazil we're operating as Rick said somewhere just north of 50% to 60% of our productive capacity.
And our real issue there is building up enough of a local market as well as the exports to China that would facilitate starting up additional piece of that capacity which doesn't come on a straight line.
It would come in a chunk of capacity.
So we're -- we will face that decision most likely sometime in 2012 as we continue to grow our volume.
Research Division</strong> And just order of magnitude I mean if we look at that $23 million of adjusted EBITDA last year can you give us just a ballpark on how that would break out between the 2 countries? We haven't released that yet.
We probably won't.
I hope you understand.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last question just in Chile what's the penetration rate for stick-built now? I think in the early years you guys took that from 0 to somewhere between 15 and 20.
And I imagine with all the rebuilding it's up higher now.
That's correct.
In the first 10 years we achieved somewhere in the 25% to 30% range on frame construction methodologies for residential construction.
And since the earthquake in 2010 the reconstruction there's a much higher share on a frame-based system.
And we would put our share of the market now above 50%.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then Rick can you just help us think about sort of the leverage in both the commodity OSB business and in the engineered wood if we start to see kind of a ramp up in housing? Well in OSB I think we've touched on that earlier in the call.
We have quite a bit of capability simply by adding shifts before we have to think about adding the mill.
So if you think about the financial leverage there you're simply adding the variable component and then you get further absorption of fixed cost there.
So it's pretty high in OSB.
And it's the same in engineered wood.
I mean we have plants running bare bones production schedules right now some of them like 40 hours a week.
So if you think about expanding that to 160 hours per week simply by adding people and raw materials both of those I think are poised extremely well for increased takeaway.
Research Division</strong> I mean last week one of your bigger competitors I think put a 30% or 35% operating rate up for their engineered wood business.
How would yours compare to that? Pretty darn close.
Great.
Well thank you.
Cathy I think that's all the time we have for questions.
So if you could please provide the replay number.
And for those of you who participated on the call thank you very much.
As always Mike and Becky are here to answer any follow-up questions.
Thank you everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Louisiana-Pacific Corporation First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Stephanie and I'll be your coordinator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to Ms.
Sallie Bailey Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please proceed.
Thank you very much Stephanie and good morning.
Thank you for joining our conference call to discuss LP's financial results for the first quarter of 2012.
I'm Sallie Bailey LP's Chief Financial Officer and with me today are Curt Stevens LP's Chief Executive Officer; as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley our primary Investor Relations contacts.
I will begin the discussion with a review of the financial results for the first quarter of 2012.
This will be followed by some comments on the performance of the individual segments and selected balance sheet items.
After I finish my comments Curt will discuss the general market environment in which LP has been operating provide his perspective on our operating results for the first quarter of 2012 and give some thoughts on the outlook for 2012.
As we have done in the past we have opened up this call to the public and are doing a webcast.
The webcast can be accessed at www.lpcorp.com.
Additionally to help with the discussion we have provided a presentation with supplemental information that should be reviewed in conjunction with the earnings release.
I'll be referencing these slides in my comments this morning.
We have also filed an 8-K this morning with some supplemental information as well as our first quarter 10-Q.
I want to remind all of the participants about the forward looking statements comment on Slide 2 of the presentation.
Please also be aware of the discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial information included on Slide 3 of the presentation.
The appendix attached to the presentation has some of the necessary reconciliations which have been supplemented by the Form 8-K filing we made this morning.
Rather than reading these 2 statements I incorporate them with this reference.
Before I get started on the detailed discussion of LP's financial results for the first quarter I want to make some higher-level comments and observations.
On a March year-to-date basis single-family and multifamily housing starts are up 19% over the same period in 2011.
This is also true for new home sales and sales of existing homes.
As we stated on our call in February housing activity is beginning to show some signs of life.
Our operating results for the first quarter show improvement.
Adjusted EBITDA of $21 million is 58% higher than the first quarter of 2011.
Starting this quarter we have revised our approach in non-GAAP financial results.
Adjusted EBITDA now includes the depreciation from our unconsolidated affiliates primarily Peace Valley and U.S.
GreenFiber all prior period non-GAAP results have been adjusted as well and the details are in the Form 8-K we filed this morning with our press release.
We have also calculated the non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations using a normalized tax rate of 35%.
This tax rate is calculated using the weighted average rate of the statutory tax rate of the United States U.S.
state and local jurisdictions Canada Chile and Brazil assuming profitability in each of these jurisdictions.
The impact of using a normalized tax rate along with the adjustments is also detailed in the reconciliation of non-GAAP information provided this morning.
With that let me go into the details.
Please refer to Slide 4 of the presentation for a discussion of the first quarter 2012 results compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 and the first quarter of 2011.
We reported net sales of $362 million for the first quarter of 2012 a 9% increase from the sales reported for the first quarter of 2011.
In the first quarter of 2012 we recorded a net loss of $11 million or $0.08 per diluted share.
In the first quarter of 2011 we reported -- excuse me I'm sorry in the first quarter of 2012 we recorded a net loss of $11 million or $0.08 per diluted share.
In the first quarter of 2011 we reported a net loss of $23 million or $0.18 per diluted share and $332 million of net sales.
The adjusted months from continuing operations for the quarter is $9 million or $0.06 per share compared to $60 million or $0.12 per share in the first quarter of 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $21 million in the quarter compared to $13 million in the first quarter of 2011 a solid improvement quarter-over-quarter as well as consecutively a 9% improvement in net sales and a 58% improvement in adjusted EBITDA compared to the first quarter of 2011 and a $33 million improvement in adjusted EBITDA from the fourth quarter of 2011 and an increase of $50 million of net sales.
Moving to Slide 5 and a review of our business unit results starting with OSB.
OSB recorded an operating loss of $300 000 in the quarter compared to a loss of $9 million in the first quarter of 2011.
For the quarter in terms of adjusted EBITDA we are reporting $11 million of income as compared to $2 million in the first quarter of 2011.
For the quarter we had a 4% increase in volume and our average sales price was 6% higher.
The increase in selling price favorably impacted operating results and adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations by approximately $8 million for the quarter as compared to the corresponding period in 2011.
Sales volumes also increased as we continue to sell more products into value-added applications.
Slide 6 reports the results of the Siding business.
This segment includes our SmartSide and CanExel Siding products and commodity OSB produced in our Hayward mill.
The Siding segment reported net sales of $113 million in the first quarter of 2012 an increase of 6% from $106 million reported in the first quarter of 2011.
The Siding segment reported operating income of $17 million as compared to $13 million in the first quarter of 2011 and adjusted EBITDA of $21 million an increase of $4 million compared to the first quarter of 2011.
For the quarter SmartSide average sales price was up 2% and volumes increased 9%.
Volume increase in our SmartSide siding line to the continued penetration into several key focus markets including retail repair and remodel and sheds.
CanExel prices showed a decrease of 6% and volume was down 5%.
Sales volume declined in our CanExel Siding lines due to some weakening in the Canadian housing market and lower shipments to Europe.
Please turn to Slide 7 of the presentation which shows the results from our Engineered Wood Products segment.
This segment includes I-Joist Laminated Strand Lumber Laminated Veneer Lumber plus other related products.
This also includes the sale of I-Joist and LVL products produced by the Abitibi joint venture or under a sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood.
The Engineered Wood Products segment's operating loss decreased to $3 million in the first quarter of 2012 from $6 million in the first quarter of 2011.
For the first quarter of 2012 EWP realized an increase in adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations of $1 million as compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Volumes of I-Joist were up 2% while volumes of LVL and LSL were up 14% compared to the same quarter last year primarily due to increases in domestic demand.
Pricing was up 3% in I-Joist and down 1% in LVL and LSL due to changes in mix in both product lines with individual product pricing remaining relatively flat.
Moving on to Slide 8 of the presentation.
For the quarter South American operating income decreased by $500 000 for the first quarter of 2012 compared to the first quarter of 2011.
For the first quarter South America's adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $6 million as compared to $6.5 million reported in the first quarter of 2011.
Volumes in Chile were up 14% while volumes in Brazil were up 2% compared to the same quarter last year.
Changes in volume were primarily due to increases related to continued rebuilding associated with the Chilean earthquake in 2010.
The sales volume increase in Chile was primarily sourced by import.
Pricing was up 10% in Chile and down 6% in Brazil.
These changes in price were primarily related to the change in foreign exchange rates.
While there is no slide for Other Building products let me make a few comments.
These results are from our Molding business U.S.
GreenFiber Joint Venture and various other nonoperating facilities.
Overall we are showing a loss of $1 million in the first quarter of 2012 which is comparable to the first quarter of 2011.
For the quarter sales were $10 million which is slightly below the first quarter of 2011.
Total SG&amp;A costs were $31 million in the first quarter of 2012 as compared to $29 million in the same quarter in 2011.
The increase in SG&amp;A is primarily due to the accrual of 2012 management bonuses.
We did not record any bonus accruals in 2011.
We had $100 000 foreign exchange loss in the quarter compared to a $1.8 million gain in the same quarter last year.
Interest expense was $12.6 million in the quarter compared to $14 million in the first quarter of 2011.
This reduction was primarily related to the change on one of our uncertain tax position which caused us to reverse accrued interest associated with this position.
This amount was excluded from our non-GAAP results calculation.
Please refer to Slide 9 of the presentation.
At the end of the first quarter of 2012 we had cash cash equivalents investments and restricted cash of $294 million; working capital of $517 million; net cash of $48 million.
In addition to the $281 million of cash on our balance sheet we had $85 million of availability on our asset-based loan facility and we generated cash through the first 4 weeks of the second quarter.
Capital expenditures for the 3 months were $3 million and we contributed $3 million to our joint venture.
And as we discussed in our fourth quarter conference call we are planning to spend approximately $25 million for capital expenditures in 2012.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Curt for his comments.
Thanks Sallie.
That was a very good review.
Today is my first full day as CEO of LP.
As we have reported last Friday I was elected to the Board of Directors of LP and officially became only the fourth Chief Executive Officer in LP's history.
After nearly 15 years of participating on the quarterly calls as the CFO this will be my first time talking to you as LP's CEO.
I thought it would be useful for me to share with you today what the change in leadership means to LP and where I will be focusing my time and attention.
I will also provide some comments on the market.
First and foremost there will be no change to our vision values and customer principle within LP.
The LP values will remain consistent and continue to drive our actions and how we work together.
Safety as Rick has said and I will continue to say there is nothing more important than safety at LP.
"No one should have to get hurt while working at LP" are words that we live by and drive a culture focused on 0 incidents.
For the first quarter we ended with a total incident rate of 0.48 across the entire company.
In OSB our largest business we didn't have a signal recordable injury in Q1.
Protection of the environment.
This is a legal requirement and necessary to be good members of our communities.
Compliance with all laws and ethically with high integrity in all we do simply put it means doing the right thing.
Providing quality products and services to our customers.
This is a must-have to achieve our objective of being the supplier of choice.
We respect people within our organization and we have a commitment to teamwork.
We have a commitment to continuous improvement.
With Lean Six Sigma firmly embedded in LP we've seen the tangible benefits of the many process improvement projects that have been completed using these tools.
Commitments to our communities.
LP people are leaders in the communities in which we operate.
This is a responsibility that we must embrace: being good environmental stewards providing safe and rewarding jobs and helping make our locations a better place to live.
The LP customer principle is that everyone at LP is responsible for providing a consistent quality customer experience.
That will not change but will gain traction.
The LP organization that I inherit is in very good shape and has shown an amazing ability to be agile productive efficient and effective in a very difficult market.
There is no need for major restructuring.
However there are a few changes that are implemented today to recognize the organizational importance of the business teams and continue the progress we've made toward satisfying LP's customer principle.
Brad Southern and Brian Luoma have been promoted to Senior Vice President of their respective businesses Siding and Engineered Wood.
This is an important acknowledgment to the GM roles critical to the success of LP.
Both Brad and Brian have long served LP in a variety of roles and have excelled in every position they've held.
In sales and marketing I'm institutionalizing our "one LP" from the customer and marketing perspective by having Rick Olszewski more directly involved in OSB sales and all the marketing functions within the business.
This will make Rick the single point of contact for sales leadership at LP.
From a business strategy perspective Rick Frost and I have worked together with our management team and Board of Directors for 15 years.
During this time we have brought different skills viewpoints and opinions to the table but we've always agreed on the strategic direction of LP.
As the housing market recovers LP is well positioned to take advantage of the increased demand.
We have excess capacity available in each one of our businesses.
We have improved operational efficiencies through the adoption of Lean Six Sigma productivity enhancements and our focus on agility.
We have solid customer relationships that can benefit from having a supplier with multiple product lines.
So the big question is when will the housing market recover? At LP we continue to be cautiously optimistic that the recovery is actually starting.
Let me leave you with a few anecdotes.
Housing starts were up 19% quarter-to-quarter with permits keeping pace.
The inventory of new homes for sale is at the lowest level since statistics began to be captured it's at 121 000.
Vacancy rates both for apartments and vacant homes for sale continue to decline.
The settlement with the 5 big banks in the various government programs under the mantle of make home affordable seems to be having a positive effect on short sales and the bundling of foreclosures for investment purposes.
This is reducing the risk of the foreclosure overhang.
Pending home for sales are on the rise.
And there have been recent articles talking about bidding wars happening again in certain markets between home buyers and sellers.
I can personally vouch for this as my daughter who lives in San Francisco and son who lives in Portland were involved in competitive transactions that ended with selling buying a house above the asking price.
This earnings season has been positive for the homebuilders and with the reporting of improved financial results and strong backlogs.
The current consensus for 2012 stands at 711 000 single and multifamily housing starts an increase of 17% compared to last year.
For 2013 the consensus now stands at 875 000 a 23% increase over 2012.
For LP Sallie just reported our results which were much better than last year and clearly above our internal expectation as we budgeted based on 625 000 housing starts for this year.
This increased activity led to improved OSB pricing and stronger siding sales.
While we have been concerned the second quarter activity would follow last year's negative trend I am pleased that our April activity has remained robust and OSB pricing has held.
So where will I be spending my time over the next several quarters? Principally I will be focusing my time on the market.
While the indications I just reviewed with you would imply that the housing market is improving that we had faced in the past which has led us to be more conservative in our thinking and actions.
But if the market is getting better it is this important that we are ready for the recovery.
In particular we at LP will be spending a lot of time and effort on the full supply chain.
What are the potential pinch points for raw materials? Is there enough logging capacity? Can the resin suppliers respond to increased demand? The transportation infrastructure has contracted quite a bit during the downturn.
Will there be sufficient truck and rail capacity both incoming and outgoing? What steps should we be taking at LP to increase our access to cost-effective transportation services? At our mills we have significant unused capacity both in the underutilization of our running facility and in indefinitely curtailed mills.
Do we have a detailed plan for adding shifts at each of our operating mills? Have we identified the critical talent necessary to ship these operations? Is the incremental capital required? While we have no near-term plans to bring out indefinitely curtailed capacity it is only prudent to have a comprehensive robust start-up plan for these facilities to respond to the future market demand.
On the customer distribution side of the business we need to have regular and deep discussions with our channel partners' unexpected demands in their markets.
Over the last 6 years the channel has leaned out their inventories and relied more heavily on the manufacturers to supply incremental demand.
In the recovery the channel needs to provide this buffer.
As an example I was walking through a new house here in Nashville last weekend and the OSB sheathing installed in the wall had been manufactured in our Hanceville Alabama facility only 2 weeks ago clearly not a buffer.
If we can manage this better than our competition we should get more than our fair share of the immediate recovery and that is my goal.
With that let me hand it back to Sallie to lead the question-and-answer session.
Great.
Thank you Curt.
Stephanie we're now ready to go to the queue for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Mike Roxland Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Any reason surprise you this quarter it seems like the West has seen some relative pricing strength later -- lately excuse me so what's going on in the West versus other regions? And what really caught you by surprise during the quarter? I'm not sure I'd say that anything caught me by surprise other than the housing -- the absolute level of housing starts because we as I've said have budgeted a lower number than that.
We're optimistic it was going to be higher but it actually was better than I thought.
As far as OSB pricing in the West we're not really sure why it went down last year.
If you look at the Q1 differential between Western Canadian print and the other prints it's pretty much back at its historic average.
So it's been a recovery of what's kind of unexplained in Q2 3 and 4 of last year.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
I mean anything specific to your ops in the quarter it seems like the overall enterprise ran  a lot better this quarter than in prior quarters? I think that with our -- as I mentioned our Lean Six Sigma we continue to be more efficient and effective in how we're run those facilities.
We did have a little more incremental demand in all of the businesses which allows those mills to run better.
Anytime we can get closer to a 24/7 operation we're going to have more efficient operations than we are with different shifting patterns.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of the level of down time that you took how does that compare 1Q versus 4Q? I think the number in OSB we ran effective capacity about 76%.
77% in Q1 this year and Q4 was...
I don't know if you heard Mike but I think we ran 76% 77% effective capacity in OSB in Q1.
It was about 68% in Q4.
Now that's of what's running that doesn't include the $1.6 billion of curtailed capacity.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Do you feel that your customer order flows are matching the improvements that you're seeing on housing starts and permits? Or do you feel that they're still maybe not believing it's true and there could be a pickup or a rush later in the quarter? Yes we were concerned about that because last year we had a very good Q1 from an order standpoint that it fell off in Q2.
That's why I gave you a little color on April.
Our order files in April were better than we had expected and continue to show some strength so again we're cautiously optimistic Q2 is going to be a good quarter.
Research Division</strong> And did you feel that any of your businesses in particular might have benefited more from the warm weather and pull forward of projects completed that would have normally happened later in the year? Or do you feel a shift to your ongoing demand? I wouldn't say any product line benefited more than another.
I think there was probably a little bit more repair remodels so business that went through the boxes in the northern part of the U.S.
probably did a little bit better than we expected.
But overall I wouldn't say there was one that stood out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last question the reference about increased imports into Chile was that from Brazil or from the U.S.
or both? It was actually both.
We imported some products from Brazil into Chile and we also imported some products from our Canadian operations into Chile.
We're seeing more demand in Chile than we can satisfy.
So opportunistically we're looking at bringing that product in from other of our facilities.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just one last quick follow-up on that.
In Brazil are you still thinking about kind of starting the second line there? Or at this point would you see just filling in the gaps in North America is a better option? Well let me be clear.
Starting the second line means we have a turmoil system that we need to bring up it's still the same line.
But you could run a little bit faster if you'll bring up a second turmoil.
We're currently running between 60% and 65% of capacity in Brazil.
As it turns out because of the transportation costs it isn't a lot cheaper to move products from Brazil to Chile than it is from North America to Chile as crazy as that sounds.
Your next question comes the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
First question is I noticed you did make a change in how you're going to report the adjusted EBITDA to I believe include the 2 joint ventures involving I guess Peace River and the Abitibi plant.
And I know those JVs I believe have very little debt.
But I was wondering the thought of why you would include the EBITDA? Unless I'm assuming you can't dividend it up to the parent.
Chip simply to be consistent with what we've done in the past we've always included the EBIT.
We've always included the EBIT so it just seems that we should include the DA as well.
Got you.
Got you.
And I guess you've included all the EBIT right? And then you take off 1/2 in corporate or did you just include the 1/2? We just included the portion that comes to us similarly with the depreciation.
Okay.
And then the second thing is it looks like and I know it can vary quite a bit from year-to-year but it looks like the working capital I know it always goes up in the first quarter because of seasonality it seemed to be a bigger cash strain than it often can be and your net cash position is about $0.50 $0.60 a share less than what it was a year ago.
And so I was just thinking are you concerned about that? I know your gross cash is still pretty high is there -- are you going to look at perhaps husbanding more cash later in the year than maybe you had planned? Well let me start with cash is -- have been and will remain king at LP so that hasn't changed with the change of the person sitting in the CFO's chair.
As we look at inventories we actually used slightly less cash for inventories in the first quarter of 2012 than we did in the first quarter of 2011.
So the real difference is coming in the accounts receivable area.
And that's because our winter buyer program actually extended into April of this year where as in prior years much more of it would have been concluded in the March timeframe in terms of the cash receipts.
Got you.
And would you expect that working capital I mean that can sometimes be the second or the first book because of what you just said I guess we should expect working capital to perhaps peak in the first quarter and be certainly lower in the second half.
Yes.
Certainly as you know it all depends upon what happens with demand but we would certainly anticipate assuming demand stays at the levels it is today that working capital would come down to the season -- would come down and generate cash over the course of the year similar to the patterns we've had in prior years.
I think if demand increases in the fourth quarter and we're certainly as you all know a long ways away from the fourth quarter we might see some build and logs in particular in the fourth quarter.
Got you.
And the last question is the Siding business I think probably beat what most of us were looking for.
And some of you will see seasonal sequential improvement going in the second quarter.
In some years it may not -- might not because the first was so good.
And I'm guessing that this year is going to be tougher to see it go up again in the second from the first just because of the warm weather.
Would you agree with that? Or are we being conservative? I think there's a couple of things.
One because we did have the per-buy [ph] program this year we did not have it last year.
And this is principally for our Canadian manufactured product.
We expected a little bit of a drop off in sales there.
We have not seen that.
So that's good news from our perspective.
The other good news from our perspective is we did make the decision last week on one of our smaller mills to add a 4 shift [ph].
They have not been running 24/7 for the last 3 years.
And we the only did that because the Siding business believes that there's a true increase in demand.
So that's a good thing for our employees in 2 harbors.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
The last couple of years obviously has been very tough conditions and you've been spending capital appropriately.
Now hopefully we're at the stage where things are going to start looking a little bit better.
What type of capital do you think on a go-forward basis assuming that we are starting to enter improved housing conditions? Realistically you need to spend kind of maintenance type levels and then are there lots of opportunities for high return types of projects on the cost side that maybe have accumulated during this downtime during this difficult period? I think the way I would answer that is typically if we are running our operations 24/7 we ought to be putting $1.5 million to $2 million a year in each one of those facilities we have 26 operating facilities.
So that would say you're somewhere in the $40 million to $50 million if you're running 24/7 which we have not been and that's why we've been able to prudently reduce that.
There are return projects identified by our businesses that we have held off on.
So if we do see increased demand there's probably another $5 million to $10 million of spend that we could add to that and relatively higher returns short payback.
So I think what we talked about last year's 2010 -- or 2011 rather we've planned on a $50 million capital budget and when the market did not come back we knocked that back down to $25 million.
I would anticipate that if we do have strong markets that we could be in a $40 million to $50 million range.
But that's not immediate.
And as Sallie said we're holding to the $25 million number for this year.
Okay.
And can you remind us when you get back into the moneymaking mode in terms of cash taxes what you have in place that will reduce the cash tax outlays? It's the -- I can get that.
That's about -- I don't think it's in the material I think it's $160 million -- it's around $170 million.
Mark we can get you that detail.
I just don't remember it off the  top of my head.
It depends on -- there are some in the U.S.
and there are some in Canada.
And I think it's split almost evenly between the 2 of them.
But we'll get you the detail.
Okay.
Presumably that you have 1 or 2 years where you would have fairly nominal cash taxes? Well I mean of course it depends on how good the year is from what I can tell.
But it's a pretty significant number yes.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Curt you've already addressed adding just more shifts at some facilities.
Could you just walk us through how you would think about actually restarting some of the idle facilities? And sort of what the timeline from the moment you decide to restart until something could actually start running again what that would look like? Yes I could talk about that.
And I'll talk about it I assume you want to focus on OSB so I'll focus on that.
Right now today there's roughly 19.5 billion to 20 billion square feet of capacity that's running in North America.
It's not running at that rate but it's running.
So today I think last year the demand was 15.5 billion to 16 billion square feet.
So there's another 3 billion that we could add.
And think about housing starts every 100 000 housing starts is 1 billion square feet.
So if you increase your housing starts with 300 000 over the 580 000 that we had last year that says when you get close to 900 000 you're going to be out of OSB capacity.
So as a producer from our standpoint we would look at that and see if see sustainable housing starts at 900 000 or north.
We have to think about adding that capacity.
From a timing standpoint obviously the mills that have been shut down the longest it's going to be the longest to come back up.
But it's probably from the time you make the decision it's a 9 to 12 months ramp-up and that includes getting your logs in the deck and hiring your people training your staff.
Now we have a decided advantage because we have multiple facilities and we see those operations with current employees.
But you heard me talking about our plan to be prepared for recovery.
We will have detailed plans in place that will make that as short as possible so that we can get the most market intelligence before we make those decisions.
From a cost standpoint it's about cost and again it depends on how long the mills are down-- but it's probably a $5 million to $10 million number if you bring up one of these big operations.
And that's things like the forklift that you took out and relocated to another mill you got to replace that.
Those spare parts that you took out of the storeroom you've got to replace that then you're working capital with resins and wood.
Well that's the numbers we think about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I just -- I'm curious as the business appears to be picking up do you think that this could be the trigger to seeing a little more consolidation in the OSB business? I mean really aside from GP buying Grant there has not been a whole lot during the downturn.
Well it's interesting.
it didn't happen at the top.
It didn't happen on the way down it didn't happen at the bottom.
So the only thing left is on the way up.
I will use one of the Rick-isms there aren't any sissies left.
Research Division</strong> Yes I've heard that one.
Okay a couple of other questions.
I was just comparing your Engineered Wood volumes to the numbers that were reported last week by Boise Cascade and also to what Weyerhaeuser reported.
And you guys were really pretty flat in that business and both of those other guys the 2 main competitors in the business showed much stronger year-over-year volume gains in those businesses.
Any thoughts on why that comp might have appeared as it did? What we are trying to do with our Engineered Wood business Mark is that business that does not have any repair or remodel components to speak of a little bit of light industrial and commercial because principally new home construction.
We're trying to make that cash neutral as best as we can.
And market share when you're under water it doesn't help you much.
So we have actually walked away from some business that just didn't provide -- didn't help us reset our cash breakeven that we're focused on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is it still a business that you want to stay in however? Pardon? Research Division</strong> Still a business that you want to stay in over the long term? Oh there's lots of very very positive things for Engineered Wood.
If you think about the situation in British Columbia with the beetle kill and now with these explosions there's probably going to be less capacity coming out of that.
Having the China market come back and then the change in the design values for Southern Yellow pine lumber are going to make it increasingly beneficial to the builder and architect to use Engineered Wood.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just 2 other ones.
Gail brought up that issue of the imports into Chile.
It seems like over the last few years we've seen a lot of other players or some other players shipping OSB down into Latin America I will avoid calling it a dumping ground but are you continuing to see other players kind of ship into South America on an opportunistic basis? Well we can see the imports statistics in Chile.
So we do get those on a quarterly basis if you look at it.
So we have a pretty feel for what the external volume is.
It's still not very significant.
It's kind of an annoyance but it's not very significant.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last question I have.
You've mentioned sort of supply chain and things.
One branch of the supply chain you didn't mention is just sort of what's happened to all of these building products distributors the intermediaries? Because it seems like to me that a lot of those guys are privately held and I don't know how many of them have gone out of business over the last 3 or 4 years.
Well I think at that level there's about 5 400 that no longer exist.
So a lot of those have gone out.
And I mentioned compasset[ph] if I didn't we are concerned about getting it to the job site.
Who we dealed generally with is the 2 stepper that gets it to those guys that then get it to the job site.
And that's important from 2 perspectives.
One it's important from just the logistics and moving the material there.
But the other important role that they play is they finance the builder.
And with the banks being reluctant to finance builders the channel has to assume that role.
So we are concerned about that.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just looking at your operating rates 76% 77% in the quarter you've got a little bit of ability to add capacity.
And I guess previous questions have asked about how long that's going to take to get back but do you see a first mover advantage in adding that back earlier than the rest of the industry? You mean a new mill? Or an indefinitely curtailed mill? LLC Research Division</strong> An indefinitely curtail mill yes.
Again just given what's running today and what that means from a housing standpoint until you do get towards that 900 000 it doesn't make much sense.
We're better off -- we're better off filling out what we got running.
And from our perspective we should be differentially advantaged because we do have the lowest operating rate because we can see what Ainsworth is announcing as well as Norbord.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'm just trying to put in the context so that's sort of 9 to 12 months before you bring it up and that's sort of current consensus which you've got at 875 000 for '13.
Well it's right.
It's 875 000 for '13.
So in my mind if that is accurate and we grow from there in the middle of next year we're going to have to make some decisions.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And just on Brazil volume is pretty flat year-over-year.
Just if you could give us some additional color of the growth of that market and how you look at that going forward? Well one of the things that we've been trying to do Paul is we've been trying to go through what is a very bureaucratic process to get our building system approved.
And we've actually made some great strides there.
And we do have demonstration projects Sao Paulo Rio and in Curitiba where we've had builder partners build 40 to 60 units both for middle-class residential as well as for government-sponsored building.
Now those are still demonstration projects and we've got some of the certifications not all of it wish Rick O were here today because he can give you more detail on that.
But we are making progress in the building system.
Generally what that means is adding our OSB to steel studs and then adding roof decking using asphalt shingles.
So we are making some progress there.
The other area we continue to make progress is the industrial.
But that was relatively flat year-over-year.
So any increase we did have was in the I would call the nascent building side of that.
The final question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> A number of my questions have been asked but I wanted to ask about the changes to building codes that have allowed the construction of kind of multi-story I think up to 7-story wood-framed buildings.
Have you actually seen any of these projects using this style of construction? I was in Vancouver and I did see there's a City Hall up there that's using this Cross-Laminated Timber which basically you do the same thing with our LSL.
But then you get into logistics of shipping something that's going to be 8 wide by 68 feet long and 4 feet thick.
That's a tough piece of wood to come from Houlton Maine.
Frankly speaking here in the U.S.
I think the 4-story and under is probably going to be our sweet spot and we are seeing a fair amount of multifamily using that.
I know there's a lot of talk around it to build these bigger buildings.
I just don't know how much of the market they're really going to represent going forward.
Research Division</strong> So to a certain extent this was a bit of an academic exercise to demonstrate? I think it is.
We actually had Peter Green.
He's the big architect -- Michael Green an associate up in Vancouver.
We had him spend some time with us.
Probably the most interesting thing that he brought to my attention that I wasn't aware of is that concrete from a sustainability standpoint is terrible.
It provides or it creates 8% of the gas in the U.S.
versus fuel or versus transportation which was 2.5%.
So concrete as a building material is not very sustainable.
So the under 4-story using concrete and steel is not the right way to go.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Because I don't think concrete grows back.
But I think part of the objective was to kind of stimulate the Chinese adoption.
Anything would be there? Yes I think you're exactly right.
What they're trying to do is demonstrate they can build a 15- or 20-story building and then have the Chinese say "Well this is perfect for 6 storys then." Great.
Well thank you.
Stephanie I think that's all the time we have for questions.
So if you could please provide the replay number.
And then I'd like to -- before you do that I'd like to thank everyone for participating in our call.
Mike and Becky as always are here to follow-up -- to answer any follow-up questions.
And I thank you and hope everyone has a good day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen if you would like to listen to the replay you can dial-in the U.S.
telephone number at 1 (888) 286-8010 and the access code is 74994732.
The international direct number 1 (617) 801-6888 and the access code 74994732.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
You have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Louisiana-Pacific Corp.
Quarter 2 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Bree and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
Now I would like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Sallie Bailey Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please proceed.
Thank you very much Bree and good morning.
Thank you for joining our conference call to discuss LP's financial results for the second quarter of 2012.
I'm Sallie Bailey LP's Chief Financial Officer.
And with me today are Curt Stevens LP's Chief Executive Officer; as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley our primary Investor Relation contacts.
I will begin the discussion with a review of the financial results for the second quarter of 2012 and the first half of 2012.
This will be followed by some comments on the performance of individual segments and selected balance sheet items.
After I finish my comments Curt will discuss the general market environment in which LP has been operating provide his perspective on our operating results for the second quarter of 2012 and give some thoughts on the outlook for the second half of 2012.
As we have done in the past we have opened up this call to the public and are doing a webcast.
The webcast can be accessed at www.lpcorp.com.
Additionally to help with the discussion we have provided a presentation with supplemental information that should be reviewed in conjunction with the earnings release.
I'll be referencing these slides in my comments this morning.
We have also filed an 8-K this morning with some supplemental information as well as our second quarter 10-Q.
I want to remind all the participants about the forward-looking statements comments on Slide 2 of the presentation.
Please also be aware of the discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial information included on Slide 3 of the presentation.
The appendix attached to the presentation has some of the necessary reconciliation that been supplemental -- been supplemented by the form 8-K filing we made this morning.
Rather than reading these 2 statements I incorporate them with this reference.
Before I get started on the detailed discussion of LP's financial results for the second quarter I would like to summarize our successful debt refinancing.
We strengthened our balance sheet during the quarter by issuing $350 million a new unsecured bond with a 7.5% interest rate and an 8-year maturity.
The majority of the proceeds were used to refinance our 13% bond which had a 2017 maturity date.
As a reminder due to the discounted nature of that bond the effective interest rate was slightly higher than 19%.
In addition to replacing the secured debt with unsecured debt we added approximately $100 million to the balance sheet while reducing annual cash interest expense by $5.4 million and the annual book interest expense by over $13 million.
The offering was well received in the market and we are pleased to end the quarter with a stronger balance sheet and lower interest cost.
With that let me go into the details.
Moving to Slide 4 of the presentation for a discussion of the second quarter 2012 and first half 2012 consolidated results.
We reported net income of $428 million for the second quarter of 2012 -- I'm sorry we reported net sales of $428 million for the second quarter of 2012 an increase of 18% from the sales reported for the second quarter of 2011.
In the second quarter of 2012 we reported a net loss of $37 million or $0.27 per diluted share.
We reported a $52 million pretax charge associated with the early debt extinguishment.
This represents the make whole provision for the debt which was tendered plus associated deferred costs.
In the second quarter of 2011 we reported a net loss of $33 million or $0.25 per diluted share and the $362 million of net sales.
The adjusted income from continuing operations for the quarter is $3 million or $0.02 per share based upon a normalized tax rate of 35% compared to a loss of $26 million or $0.19 per share in the second quarter of 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $37 million in the second quarter compared to negative EBITDA of $4 million in the second quarter of 2011.
Another solid improvement quarter-over-quarter with a $65 million increase in net sales and higher adjusted EBITDA of $40 million compared to the second quarter of 2011.
On a year-to-date basis we recorded $789 million in net sales a $48 million net loss and a loss per share of $0.35 as compared to net sales of $694 million and net loss of $56 million and a loss per share of $0.43 in the first half of 2011.
On a non-GAAP basis we recorded adjusted operating income of $17 million a loss per share of $0.05 and adjusted EBITDA of $58 million for the first 6 months of 2012 a significant improvement over the first 6 months of 2011 when we recorded a loss of $35 million a loss per share of $0.32 and adjusted EBITDA of $10 million.
I will now move to Slide 5 and a review of our segment results.
Starting with OSB.
OSB recorded operating profit of $17 million on $195 million of sales in the quarter compared to a loss of $23 million on $141 million of sales in the second quarter of 2011.
For the quarter we're reporting adjusted EBITDA of $28 million compared to negative EBITDA of $11 million in the second quarter of 2011.
We had a 13% increase in volume and our average sales price was 22% higher relative to the second quarter of 2011.
The increase in selling price favorably impacted operating results and adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations by approximately $33 million for the quarter as compared to the corresponding period in 2011.
Sales volumes also increased as we continue to sell more products into value added applications demand for housing improved and we increased our exports to our Chilean operations.
I will take a minute to address the improvements in pricing from the first quarter of 2012.
The price increase of 8% is due to the improved average selling price of OSB during the quarter.
As we have discussed in the past changes in North Central 7/16 random length although widely used as a standard for OSB price changes do not fully reflect the complexity of the OSB market.
We sell products into other regions besides North Central we sell products other than 7/16.
Also we increased our export sales in the quarter and the export market price didn't change much during the course of the second quarter.
On a year-to-date basis OSB sales of $344 million are 26% higher than the first half of 2011 while profit of $17 million is $49 million higher than the loss of $32 million in the first half of 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA for the first 6 months of 2012 is $38 million as compared to negative EBITDA of $9 million for the first 6 months of 2011.
The improvement in OSB's performance for the first half of 2012 is driven by higher price providing a $30 million -- $39 million improvement and higher volume.
Slide 6 reports the result of the Siding business.
This segment includes our SmartSide and CanExel siding products and commodity OSB produced in our Hayward mill.
The Siding segment reported sales of $137 million in the second quarter of 2012 an increase of 16% from $119 million reported in the second quarter of 2011.
The Siding segment reported operating income of $19 million compared to $11 million in the second quarter of 2011 and adjusted EBITDA of $24 million an increase of $8 million compared to the second quarter of 2011.
For the quarter SmartSide average sales prices were up 2% and volumes increased 9%.
Volume increase in our SmartSide siding line due to continued penetration in several key focus market including retail repair and remodel markets and sheds.
CanExel prices were up 1% and volumes were down 31%.
The CanExel sales have been driven by supply chain patterns.
Our distributors built inventory through the first half of 2011 and then bled out the inventory over the past 4 quarters.
We anticipate that our 2012 sales volume for the CanExel line will be equal to the 2011 sales.
On a year-to-date basis the Siding segment recorded $250 million in sales $36 million in profit and $45 million in adjusted EBITDA.
For the first 6 months of 2011 the Siding segment recorded sales of $225 million a profit of $24 million and adjusted EBITDA of $32 million.
The improvement from the first 6 months of 2011 is driven by increased volume of 16% in SmartSide and higher sales price and about $2 million related to improved OSB pricing for product produced in our Hayward mill most of which was earned in the second quarter.
Please turn to Slide 7 of the presentation which shows the results of our Engineered Wood Products segment.
This segment includes I-Joist Laminated Strand Lumber Laminated Veneer Lumber plus other related products.
This segment also includes the sale of I-Joist and LVL products produced by the Abitibi joint venture or under a sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood.
The Engineered Wood Products segment sales decreased to $52 million in the second quarter of 2012 from $54 million in the second quarter of 2011.
The segment's operating loss in the second quarter of 2012 was approximately the same as the operating loss in the second quarter of 2011.
For the second quarter of 2012 adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations decreased $1 million as compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Volumes of I-Joist were up 17% while volumes of LVL and LSL were down 9% compared to the same quarter last year primarily due to lower international sales.
Pricing was down 2% in I-Joist LVL and LSL due to changes in mix in both product lines with individual product pricing remaining relatively flat.
On a year-to-date basis Engineered Wood Products recorded net sales of $100 million a loss of $6 million and negative EBITDA of $1 million.
In the first 6 months of 2011 Engineered Wood Products recorded net sales of $102 million a loss of $9 million and the same level of adjusted EBITDA.
Volumes and pricing for LVL and LSL were essentially flat relative to the prior year while I-Joist volumes increased 17% and pricing for I-Joist decreased 2%.
Moving on to Slide 8 of the presentation.
For the quarter our South American segment recorded sales of $43 million compared to sales of $40 million in the second quarter of 2011.
Operating income was relatively flat for the second quarter of 2012 compared to the second quarter of 2011.
South America's adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $6 million for the second quarter of 2012 compared to $7 million reported in the second quarter of 2011.
Volumes in Chile were up 30% while volumes in Brazil were down 27% compared to the same quarter last year.
For Chile changes in volumes were due to continued strong demand as wood framed housing market penetration increased due to rebuilding efforts.
The sales volume's increase in Chile was primarily sourced by imports from the U.S.
Canada and Brazil.
The imported sales have minimal margin associated with them due to high cost of freight.
In Brazil the loss of volume relates to lower exports to China.
Pricing was up 4% in Chile and down 13% in Brazil.
These changes in price are primarily related to changes in foreign exchange rates.
For the first 6 months of 2012 South America recorded net sales of $85 million a profit of $7 million and adjusted EBITDA of $12 million.
For the first 6 months of 2011 South America recorded net sales of $75 million profit of $8 million and adjusted EBITDA of $14 million.
The drivers of the performance for the 6 months of 2012 relative to the same period in 2011 are the same as those for the second quarter.
In Chile higher demand for our product being satisfied by imports with minimal margin and in Brazil the loss of volume is due to lower demand from export markets specifically China.
Our Molding business U.S.
GreenFiber Joint Venture and various other non-operating facilities are shown in the Other Building Products segment.
Overall we are showing a loss of $2 million in the second quarter of 2012 which is comparable to the first quarter of 2011.
For the quarter sales were slightly above the second quarter of 2011.
Operating results for the first 6 months of 2012 were flat with the 2011 results for the same period.
Total SG&amp;A costs were $31 million in the second quarter of 2012 compared to $28 million in the same quarter of 2011.
For the first 6 months of 2012 SG&amp;A costs were $62 million compared to $56 million for the first 6 months of 2011.
The increase in SG&amp;A cost was primarily due to the accrual of 2012 management bonuses.
We did not accrue any -- we did not record any bonus accruals in 2011.
We had a $2.6 million foreign exchange loss in the quarter compared to a $600 000 gain in the same quarter last year.
For the 6-month period we recorded a $2.7 million loss in 2012 compared to a $2.4 million gain in 2011.
Interest expense was $13.1 million in the quarter compared to $14.4 million in the second quarter of 2011.
This reduction primarily related to lower interest expense we recorded due to the refinancing as well as lower amortization related to our deferred debt expense.
Please turn to Slide 9 of the presentation.
As of June 30 2012 we had cash cash equivalents investment and restricted cash of $440 million; working capital of $645 million; net cash of $40 million.
In addition to the $427 million of cash on our balance sheet we had $85 million of availability on our asset-based loan facility.
Capital expenditures for the 6 months were $7 million and we contributed $2 million to our joint ventures.
As we discussed in our last quarter conference call we are planning to spend approximately $25 million for capital expenditures in 2012.
Now I'll turn the call over to Curt for his comments.
Thank you Sallie for that review.
In my remarks in early May I did mention that April was off to a good start and that I was cautiously optimistic that this would continue for the remainder of the second quarter rather than the head fake that we saw last year between Q1 and Q2.
The results that Sallie just reported justified a cautious optimism as they were significantly better than last year and clearly above our expectations primarily due to the increased housing activity up 22% quarter-to-quarter and 27% 6 months to 6 months.
This led to improved OSB pricing which is 22% above last year and volumes that were 13% better.
We also had a much better quarter in Siding where sales were up 16% and segment earnings higher by over 70% compared to Q2 of last year.
In fact after adjusting for the costs associated with our successful debt refinancing LP made money.
This quarter we find ourselves once again leaning towards cautious optimism.
On the plus side single-family housing permits ended June in the annual rate of 540 000 a 22% improvement over last year and multi-family permits June's number was 262 000 52% higher than last year.
Inventory of new homes for sale continued to decline now standing at about 115 000.
In addition there have been comments about the shortage of existing homes for sale now stands at about 2.5 million.
Vacancy rates both for apartments and vacant homes for sale continued to decline.
So with that the current consensus for 2012 stands at about 750 000 single and multi-family housing starts.
This is a forecasted increase of slightly over 25% compared to last year.
For 2013 the consensus is now just above 900 000 a 21% increase over the forecast for 2012.
Confidence in the housing market is continuing to grow as homebuilders are accessing debt equity markets acquiring land positions at an accelerated pace and beginning construction in new communities.
On the negative side the on-again off-again financial crisis in Europe is certainly affecting consumer confidence and banking in general.
While there is job growth it is at relatively low levels but it's affecting the rate of household formations.
Recent comments by the Federal Reserve and the lackluster economic data do indicate a slowing of the overall economy.
Mortgage rates while very very low and quite attractive do require high credit scores and down payments by the banks which have limited access.
And the political situation this election year has everyone worried about the paralyzed government and a looming financial cliff [ph] at the end of the year.
So my conclusion is that I'm cautiously optimistic going into the second half of the year but I'm also maintaining an agile stance here at LP.
Part of the discussion on the last call was around this question of housing is rebounding what is LP doing to be prepared for the upturn.
This has become a very common question from customers investors and other stakeholders.
Let me answer this question because this clearly has been on my agenda for a while.
We did launch an effort to evaluate the areas of risk and the full supply chain from the tree to the delivery of the finished product of the building site.
From this effort we have charged several projects that address the expected logging and transportation shortages deferred capital expenditures critical human capital needs and an increased integration with our supply chain partners.
In Siding we are staffing up to run 24/7 at all of our strand-based SmartSide mills and have cut back on the quantity of OSB manufactured at Hayward so we can use that capacity to produce more siding.
In addition our Board of Directors just last week approved their project to rebuild a press of one of our smaller SmartSide mills that will give us both approved capabilities and slightly expanded capacity.
In Chile we did announce that we are beginning the site selection and environmental permitting process for a third mill to meet the increased demand that is now being satisfied by imports from our Brazilian and North America OSB operations.
This will allow us to put the associated freight costs on to our bottom line rather than give that to the shippers.
In OSB we have significant unused capacity both in the underutilization of running mills and in indifferently curtailed mills.
We do have detailed plans in place for adding shifts at each of our operating mills and we'll have similar startup plans in place for idle capacity when it is needed based on housing starts.
We want to manage this increased activity as smoothly as possible to increase our market share as the recovery picks up steam.
With that let me hand it back to Sallie to lead the Q&amp;A session.
Great.
Thank you Curt.
Bree we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
And your first question comes the line of Mark Connelly from CLSA.
This is Kurt Shown [ph] filling in for Mark.
So in SmartSide where is all the growth coming from? Is it more a market share story? Is it more of a general demand growth story? And what markets are you seeing growth in? Well we've talked about in the past was Siding is -- Siding was about a 65% to 70% new home construction when we entered into the downturn.
With housing falling off as dramatically as it has we have refocused our efforts into a couple different segments.
One retail is very important to us so if you go into a Menards or Lowe's or Home Depot you will see our Siding products in all those stores and we've expanded the number of SKUs.
So we've seen growth in retail.
The other area we've seen quite a bit of growth is in the nonresidential construction area.
And this would be sheds and barns and those kinds of structures.
We've done very well in penetrating that with a variety of products both really the entire shell of those sheds.
And then in the repair remodel sector we just began about a year ago penetrating that.
So this would be the one step distributors to go directly to the installers.
So we've seen growth in those segments.
And then from a product standpoint we've seen a wide acceptance of our trim products and this would be soft [ph] Trim and Fascia.
So we're seeing growth there.
Are there any specific areas of the country that you're seeing more growth than others? Yes.
Siding as a cladding for a house is very regional.
Where Siding is very strong it's strong in the middle of the country.
So the Kansas City St.
Louis those markets are strong and the Denver market strong wood-based siding is strong in the Pacific Northwest.
And we are seeing a lot of growth in our panel products in the southeast and southwest.
Okay.
And then secondly it looks like OSB prices are basically back to '06 levels besides the spike back in 2010.
When do you expect idle capacity to come back online? What's your inflection point in terms of housing starts and pricing? Well if you look at what capacity is currently running we can add about 3 billion square feet of capacity to what is running today.
So our numbers in the 850 000 to 900 000 housing start level that's when we need to consider looking at some of the capacity coming back online.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman from USB (sic) [ UBS ].
Research Division</strong> Speaking on OSB pricing a little bit can you touch on what you think has driven some of the regional variation that's developed over the last couple of quarters and if there's any signs of those gaps narrowing? Well as you -- you're exactly right.
The pricing from a regional standpoint and it's not just regional as Sallie mentioned it's also by product type.
So if you look at the Random Lengths trans and -- tracks like 90 products there's been quite a divergence in the last 2 quarters probably the most significant is Western Canada.
If we look back to the middle of last year Western Canada was selling at a significant discount to the rest of the regions.
And now it is the highest.
So you're seeing pricing from the Southeast forego go for approximately $208 per 1 000 for Western Canada $267.
So you are seeing a wide variation.
There is a natural arbitration that takes place there.
When you have this big a disparity manufacturers in the Southeast will sell into those other regions and take the freight differential off of that and that will have a tendency to drive the prices closer together.
So we do see that that pricing will come closer together as the year progresses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when you look at kind of ramping up your capacity and adding shifts I guess one can you just kind of outline what your current operating rate is both effective and actual? And have you had any issues kind of adding shifts as you wanted? Have there been any kind of roadblocks and stumbling blocks there? The operating rates for what is running we ran in the low 80s for the second quarter.
If you take the 1.6 billion square feet that's not running that would put us in the 65 kind of range.
As far as adding shifts we have not had any significant issues in the U.S.
We are having some issues in Canada and that's largely related to skilled trades.
So one of the projects that I mentioned as we ramp-up is to make sure that we have adequate human capital needs to staff these mills.
So we are focused on that aspect of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just going back to the potential expansion in Chile can you give a sense of timeframe and cost? And also how does that impact your thought process on ramping up and adding -- expanding production in Brazil? Well the problem both from North America and from Brazil is it's very expensive from a freight standpoint to satisfy the demand in Chile.
So that's why we're looking at local capacity.
The -- we expect the site selection and environmental permitting process to take at least 1 year.
And then as we're going through that process we'll also be putting together the project plan to determine how much the plan will cost.
It is our intention to use -- do what we did for the first 2 mills there and use used equipment from North America to satisfy the primary machinery and equipment.
So we think we can do this on a very low cost basis as we do have permanently curtailed facilities with assets that we -- can be deployed.
So the growth -- back to your question on Brazil the growth in capacity in Brazil will be predicated upon local demand and then the recovery of the export market that Sallie talked about so often in the first half of the year.
Your next question comes from Mike Roxland with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Speaking in line with the last couple of questions you've given improved OSB demand and pricing.
Have you heard of any mills that have been shut -- or idled that might restart? And in your own internal budgeting are you accounting for any potential mill restarts? Well we haven't put our budget together for the 2014 and '15 timeframe yet.
If you think about what I said that we have to consider whether we bring on capacity when we get to 850 000 to 900 000 housing starts the current consensus is for housing starts to be 900 000 next year.
Now as we think that is reality we will have to make some decisions probably in the middle of the year on we're bringing capacity online.
Now let me be very clear on that that this is a long-term decision that's based on demand.
It isn't a short-term decision based on pricing.
If the facility has been down less than 2 years we believe that it will take 6 to 8 months to bring that operation back online and probably $5 million to $7 million worth of cash.
If it's been idle more than 2 years our timeframe probably moves out to the 10 to 12 months and the cost goes anywhere between $8 million to $10 million.
And then there are some idle facilities that we count as idle facilities that have never operated.
And it's unknown how long it would take to complete those operations to hire the people to put the infrastructure in place.
So these are not short-term decisions.
They're longer-term decisions.
But specific to LP we will probably need to make some decisions as we see the market moving to 900 000 or more in the middle of next year.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Appreciate that Curt.
Just last question on exports.
Have there been any noticeable change in exports from North America to Chile? I would have seen -- even seeing less exports and hence better pricing dynamics in Chile given what we've seen through the better domestic demand.
I'm not sure there've been less exports to Chile.
In answer to your question what we're trying to do there is we're trying to satisfy a market until we can bring on that local capacity.
Now I will tell you that export pricing hasn't moved nearly as much as the domestic pricing and that is obviously creating a quandary for all manufacturers who are looking at export volumes.
Research Division</strong> When you say that export pricing have -- it's been pretty stable? It hasn't moved much if I look at what's been exported to Europe and to Asia.
It's been pretty flat.
And as a result I think certainly we have de-emphasized our shipments to Asia in particular.
Your next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical -- from Vertical Research Partners.
Curt you mentioned that there are -- and by the way thanks for the specifics on sort of the restart process.
You mentioned that there were some facilities that have not run before and obviously you're including Clarke County.
Is there something else in your system that you were thinking about beyond Clarke County when you said that? I was actually talking about the industry Chip.
So I was talking about the capacity that could come back on from the industry.
Our Clarke County facility we actually did run that for 2 to 3 months.
So we have gone through a big piece of the debugging but it obviously will take us a period of time to bring that back online.
I was referring to some of the facilities that were under construction where the construction was either halted or -- yes was primarily halted.
Got you.
Like in South Carolina and maybe Alberta places like that.
Right.
Just to put it -- be very clear for our system we've got 1.6 billion of idled capacity half of that is the Clarke County facility that we'd -- that I would put in the category kind of between the -- been shut for more than 2 years and never because we did run it a little bit.
Then we have 1 in the category of being shut more than 2 years and that's the Chambord facility.
And then our Dawson Creek facility has only been shut down since last October.
And what is Chambord and Dawson's relative capacities? Dawson is around 420 million square feet and Chambord is about the same.
Got you.
And I guess the trick is I mean being -- having been around the block a lot in this industry is that as you get into the middle of next year obviously Dawson and probably even Chambord would easily make it into that next season.
But there is a seasonal element.
And are you going to -- not to pin you down but are you going to need to see several months or quarters of starts at and above this 900 000 level before you pull the trigger? I think what we're going to have the look at is the leading indicators to give us a degree of confidence that's going to be north of 900.
As you get to 900 the industry running what it's running today even filling out with shifts can't satisfy the demand.
Got you.
And on that point there are a number of mills out there that are running that had cut back on shifts.
And could you just -- imagine there's a big variation but you're on the front lines.
Are there facilities or how does it work when you've had like 1 shift working in a facility that could handle 2 but you've only had 1 shift say for 5 years because of the downturn.
How quickly can you add that second shift? Does that build in to a number of months or can it be done more quickly than that? Well first what you do is you use overtime.
And so you use the people that you've already got to run on the weekends.
You get additional capacity through the overtime.
And then as you decide to make that a more permanent addition of the shift you bring people in to replace overtime.
So you move into it gradually.
And so it's probably no more than 1 month to 1.5 months.
After you've kind of exhausted the overtime option? Right.
And then the last question is the equipment that you're thinking about for Brazil I guess that would be in some of the -- like I know there was a mill in Texas that you shut down a few years ago but would that be -- that wouldn't be in these 3 facilities that are considered indefinitely down.
These would be in some of the older facilities you've had down for longer is that correct? That's correct.
And there's couple of reasons for that.
One generally the result of the one who we permanently curtailed have production capacities are more in line with adding incremental volume in South America.
What you wouldn't want to do is take a 500 million square foot mill and drop it into a market that's 300 million square feet.
So the mills we've used -- Woodland we shut down 7 years ago.
So we have equipment there Athens Silsbee we've talked about and then Sam Michele potentially.
And then last question I'll turn it over after this.
When you look at the -- I think it's the LSL plant that was built in a converted operation in Maine do you see that in the next housing cycle being able to get close to what you thought it could do at least? Is the market likely to be there or do you think that there's been some changes in the market that might not make that plant as relevant as you thought it might be when you planned it? Last year I think there's been some changes on the market that are just the opposite because we do think that lumber is going to come over -- come under pressure availability.
The beetle kill in British Columbia is obviously the first thing that comes to mind but also the change in the design values for Southern Yellow pine are going to make it a much easier decision for the builder to use our Laminated Strand Lumber as a replacement for beams and headers.
Your next question comes the line of Alex Ovshey from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the OSB side to be clear some of that volume that's booked in that segment is that export volume to South America? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Would you be able to quantify what percentage of your volume in the quarter went into the export market? Probably 5% to 10%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in that volume you said because of freight you're not really making any margin? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then on the input cost side can you talk about what the input costs did for you guys there in the quarter? And if you have any forward commentary on costs over the next couple of quarters or into the third quarter? Yes.
I -- in terms of input costs for the quarter they -- all in we actually had lower costs than we have had quarter-over-quarter.
We think going forward that in particular our benzene costs may show some increases and we had hoped to see some of the benefit from oil -- lower oil pricing.
But that's not unfortunately that's not really what's occurring benzene sort of moved away from oil.
And we think those prices we may see some upticks in the third quarter.
But all in Alex the big product increases for us came in 2011 and we're not -- cost increases and we're not really anticipating similarly large raw material increases in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Got it Sallie.
And then just on the operating leverage in the OSB segment can you just talk about how you see the incremental profitability of an additional 1 000 square feet of OSB sold in that segment? Maybe the other way to ask that question is what the mix between fixed and variable costs for your domestic OSB business? When we look at the OSB results for the second quarter what we really see is some improvement based on the increased throughput.
But the real lever there is the improvement in pricing.
Research Division</strong> But going forward should we think that there is going to be an additional benefit from increase in throughput? Or why would you not also see the increase in throughput in that business? Well we will see some improvement.
But historically it's not really moved the needle nearly as much as the changes in OSB pricing.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Right.
Okay that's fair.
And then just shifting to the Engineered Wood Products business can you just talk about at what level of housing starts do you think that's a business that can turn profitable? Yes.
We -- again I keep coming back to that 900 000 I think that's where it probably is contributing a little bit.
At 1.2 million I think it's returning its cost of capital.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got you Curt.
And just lastly for Sallie just a couple of modeling questions.
Just -- can you just give us an update on what the run rate interest expense is quarterly post the refi? What do you  write fully diluted share count is? And then just maintenance CapEx in the business on an annual basis? Okay.
So the interest expense going forward I'd have to do the math but it's decreased by the -- by  that -- the interest -- the $13 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay per annum so just...
Right.
So that's the way to do that off of a -- do it off of -- calculate it off of the 2011 numbers.
What was the second question? Maintenance capital is $1 million to $2 million per plant assuming they're running full out.
And as I mentioned that's $25 million of CapEx we're anticipating for the full year of 2012.
And then what was your middle question? Research Division</strong> Fully diluted share count and also just on the normalized tax rate.
Well the normalized tax rate again we're recommending that you all use a 35% rate which is what it would look like if we had normalized earnings and we're earning -- we didn't have to take these Canadian valuation allowances.
And on the share count that will change as we become profitable.
So it will -- you'll see the -- it should go up to about $142 million once we go profitable on a full year basis.
But until we're profitable on a GAAP basis we don't count those additional shares.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Stivaletti of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Yes just a couple little things to follow-up.
You talked a lot about your perspective on potentially adding shifts or opening capacity at some point in the future.
I wonder though if you could talk more broadly about the market on the supply side.
I mean are you seeing much happening there or are you seeing people being quite disciplined? Have you heard of anything being added in terms of supply recently? Just trying to get color on that that you might have.
Yes.
Well the demand is actually in pretty good balance.
If you look at the increase in volume that APA announced it's about 11% increase in Q2 -- over Q2.
That's pretty consistent if you think about it.
Housing up 22% housing's less than 1/2 of the demand for OSB.
So if you do the numbers 11% sounds about right from a production to match the increase in the housing demand.
I am not aware of any facilities in the process of being started up right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the other thing is I was wondering if you could just shed a little bit of light on the fact that you indicate that your average OSB price year-over-year was up 22% which is a fair amount below the 3 benchmarks you show in your -- in the back of your 10-Q when you -- on a year-over-year basis.
So I'm just wondering if you could expand a little bit on why there's that differential what are the major reasons why that exists? Well there's a -- let me start out with a couple things.
One is there is the regional difference.
So we've got just between the Southeast at the end of July -- running into June and Western Canadian you have an $80-gap there.
So the first thing you have to do is you have to adjust for the regional mix of where you sell your products.
The second thing is less than 20% of our product is actually 7/16.
So then you have to look at what the other increases or the changes in prices have been for your flooring products for your radiant barrier products for thin OSB.
So you have to look at the differences there.
As an example T&amp;G flooring actually the price was less than the price in 7/16 in the second quarter which is odd because you're adding value to it but that's the way Random Length is printed.
So you have how to look at that.
Then the third thing you have to look at is what is your mix of value-added products and how does that play into the overall pricing environment.
Remember from a value-added standpoint what you try to do is you try to price that based on competitive substitutions of that product and you don't always get all the increase in the Random Lengths and you certainly don't get the decrease in the Random Lengths.
So you try to maintain a more steady margin there.
An example there would be what we're selling into the furniture market.
Furniture market -- the pricing there certainly goes up with Random Lengths but it doesn't go up nearly as much.
And then the fourth factor you have to look at is how are you selling your product.
If you're selling your product on contract then it is priced at the time of shipment and whatever I ship this week it's priced based on last week's.
If you're pricing it on the time of order and you're out 3 weeks to the order file then you got a lag in a rising market but you also have the same lag in a falling market where you'd have an advantage.
So those are the kind of the 4 areas I would look at.
And then Joe the export aspect that we've mentioned previously.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes.
That's very helpful.
And just one quick follow-up there.
Do you -- I don't see in your filings where you explicitly state what your average realizations for OSB were.
I mean is that a number that you provide or -- I don't see it anywhere.
It is not.
Yes we don't share that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it -- when you show your sales for the OSB segment which is $195 million this quarter does that correspond to when you show your production volume chart does that correspond to just the one line the $922 million? Or is that not really -- does that math not really work? Does that include other things? Well the production is what we produced and then the sales volume is the -- you can get it from the increase that we give.
We give an increased percentage but we don't specifically state that.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
First just a quick clarification on -- when you said making a decision in the middle of next year so does that mean that the earliest that realistically you'd be restarting a new facility would be for the 2014 building season? If we make a decision in the middle of next year that would be the earliest.
Okay.
And that is what you had said that that will be the soonest you would make a decision? Well remember what I said is I'm basing this on what I expect housing starts to exceed 900 -- the 850 000 to 900 000.
And we have confidence on that.
Today given what the forecasts are I would say that that's the middle of next year.
That's my comment.
Okay.
And then you also mentioned that less than 20% of your OSB mix is actually the 7/16 et cetera and in the benchmark that many of us often look at.
Can you help us a little bit as to what are some of the other large percentage categories? And if now is not the time that's fine but that would be really helpful if at some point and if you can do it now great but give us color on that.
What we said is over 1/3 of our volume was value-added products.
So that would include our flooring products which are thicker products.
It would include our radiant barrier product it would include rim board web stock and our FlameBlock.
So the remaining 2/3 is going to be -- about 1/2 of the remaining 2/3 is going to be commodity 7/16 and 3/8 and the rest is going to be different thicknesses 9 and 10-foot panels and others.
Mark well -- point taken.
I mean we'll try to figure out if there are any other sort of standards that we can provide.
But not promising anything but we'll take that into consideration.
Great.
Appreciate that.
One small question too.
I saw that the LVL/LSL volume was down year-over-year despite housing obviously being stronger.
What was going on in that on the volume basis? That was principally the export.
We exported a fair amount of LVL to Australia last year.
In the first half of this year we haven't exported as much.
They're going through a little bit of a slowdown in the building in Australia plus there was some inventory issues at several of our big customers.
But that was -- we actually were up in the U.S.
quarter-over-quarter and down internationally.
Okay.
And then one last one.
If you look at your price in your various OSB categories in July or where it is currently how does that stack up relative to the 2Q average because clearly if you're looking at Random Length and you look at the mainstay benchmarks it's about $25 per unit higher.
How would your actual given the mix that you have and all the various points that you've been making how would it compare again either now or the July average versus 2Q? I don't have an answer to that because I don't have that data in front of me.
I would expect our realization would be higher in July than it was in June.
Right.
And then versus the 2Q average as well.
Well right now Random Lengths in July is higher than the Q2 average.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I kind of feel like you ought to bring Rick Frost [ph] back for a little bow here after what he went through the last 5 or 6 years.
I'm curious if you can talk first of all about any just near-term supply disruptions that are going on in the industry we'd I think heard about a mill that didn't have any power up in Saskatchewan or Alberta.
That and any other things that you think may be affecting the market in the near term? Well there's couple things.
There have been several lightning strikes I think our mills have been affected a couple of times with lightning strikes.
We've had within LP we've had some log outages in Canada in our Swan Valley mill and we've had some difficult log situations in some of the southern mills in Jasper Carthage and Hanceville where we've lost a few days of production there just because of inavailability of logs.
And then we did have one equipment failure that we lost I think 1 or 2 days in 1 of our mills.
But that's not atypical I mean there's things you have to deal with but those are the ones that I've heard about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Right.
Second question just the thoughts on kind of consolidation in the business.
Rick used to say he thought pretty much everybody that was in it was in it to stay.
But if you look at the structure of the OSB business it seems like there's a reasonably long tail of sort of second and third tier producers.
And I just wonder with the business picking up whether you think there's room for some more consolidation in the business? Yes.
I think as you and I've talked in the past I think there is room for consolidation.
But you have to have a willing buyer and a willing seller that put a value on it that makes sense.
And as we've talked about it when the market's going down we didn't see a lot of activity whereas at the bottom we saw a little bit of activity because we had some folks go through bankruptcy.
So there's some ownership changes there.
And now that we're coming out of it we'll see from a consolidation -- from my perspective the easiest one and I have to have a willing seller is to consolidate our position in the Peace Valley mill.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
Another question kind of going back to Chile.
I just -- I've seen that one of the biggest -- the biggest forest products company down in Chile or Alco has made a couple of good sized acquisitions here in the U.S.
most recently Flakeboard yet they don't seem to want to do anything in the OSB business down in Chile.
Do you have any thoughts on that? Well they do want to do something in OSB.
They're private labeling from us.
Research Division</strong> All right.
But they haven't done anything in terms of production.
And now they've bought about 7 or 8 wood panel plants up here in the U.S.
to go with what they have down in South America.
We have a weary eye on them because you're right they are an inquisitive bunch.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I too wanted to drill in a little bit on the cost structure because it occurs to me that the costs were up about $20 per thousand.
And I would've thought they were going to fall.
So is there anything else beyond the occasional wood problem freight and benzene? Steve we're not saying that.
How are you doing that calculation? Maybe we ought to take that off-line and talk to Mike.
But our costs were not up in Q2.
Research Division</strong> Yes I'll speak to Mike on that then.
And then I guess it's terrific that you're at the point in Chile that you think you're ready for another facility.
I guess it's a little ironic to me that Brazil which has got Olympics pending and I think World Cup soccer is not growing a little faster.
Are they still resistant to single-family dwellings? Actually it is a visionary effort there to make it out of wood products.
But just a couple anecdotes there we have more sales more houses let's see how do I put this more houses were sold with wood in Q2 than all of last year with our system.
So we had -- we're having very good success in the penetration but it's just slow to get going.
And when we do get it going that mill's going to be exactly at the right place.
Now there is a little bit of turmoil going on in Brazil.
As you know their growth rate has slowed.
The economy is in a -- kind of a difficult spot.
And then the reai has certainly Sallie mentioned the foreign exchange loss that we had the reai has weakened considerably against the dollar.
Research Division</strong> So I guess you outlined 4 potential sets of assets that could go down to South America.
I mean despite the slow absorption in Brazil you think one of them could have -- you could have another one -- facility in Brazil as well? I think over time that's going to be necessary.
Because If we get just a fraction of the penetration we've had in Chile we're going to need additional capacity there now.
Research Division</strong> So you might be almost at the tipping point then given your comments on Q2 versus all of last year.
Well again we're starting from a very low base.
I wouldn't read that into it.
But I would suspect that when we get out to 2014 we're going to have to think seriously about relocating some of those assets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then all the anecdotal discussion says that field inventories are still very tight.
Can you just confirm that? From everything I've seen and it's the same thing you can do drive around look at your lumber yards.
And if you can see a material above the fence line they probably have adequate stock.
If you can't see anything they probably don't.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last quick question you gave us some good color I guess where Houlton becomes profitable and then earns its cost of capital.
How would you characterize just the -- its operational elements? Is it running sufficiently for you to say that you did a good job bringing it up? Or does it need any tweaks at all? No.
The mill is running very very well.
But it's only running at 20% of capacity.
So we've changed shifting patterns there.
So it's -- we're running it as cost effective as we can.
So we're confident that we can run that mill at high yield and high quality levels because we have been doing that even if it has reduced capacity.
I think the only additional capitals required would be a little bit on the green end.
But it's not significant.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> A quick question -- question on that capacity adds.
If -- Curt you've done a good job sort of explaining how do you think about it.
But in terms of your regional order files is there an area with a longer order file that might suggest that would be an area that you'd look at adding capacity to? Because it seems like you've got mills located all around North America.
Yes.
Where we're seeing strength is in the West Coast.
Amazingly enough Phoenix and Las Vegas are actually got home starts going in the coast of California communities are pretty strong.
And then we're seeing pretty good activity in the Pacific Northwest.
So the West is strong.
And then Texas as you know is whether this as well as any region they continue to build in the Texas region.
Where we aren't seeing anything really is there's nothing going on in the Atlantic area.
What's going on at Florida is mainly high-rise stuff so that's not helping a whole lot.
And then there's lot of building activity going on in North Dakota but it's starting from a pretty low base.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the Siding side CanExel you mentioned de-stocking there.
Is that over now going forward? Yes we believe so.
What we saw is we were on allocation through August the last year.
Again -- so what was happening was our distribution partners were taking everything they could get.
We went off allocation they said "Wooh we don't have to build up our own inventory we can rely on them." And so they brought their inventories down in the second half of last year and into the first half of this year.
Now we think where -- they're buying at their replacement level.
And so we should see -- we suspect that year-over-year you're actually going to see a slight increase in CanExel.
Bree thank you.
I think that's all the time we have for questions.
So if you could provide the replay number.
And I'd like to thank everybody for participating in the call.
And as always Mike and Becky are available to answer any follow-up questions.
Ladies and gentlemen the replay number is 1 (888) 286-8010 and the pass code is 33944069.
And ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Louisiana-Pacific Corporation Quarter 3 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Catherine and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Sallie Bailey Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please proceed ma'am.
Thank you very much Catherine and good morning.
Thank you for joining our conference call to discuss LP's financial results for the third quarter of 2012.
I'm Sallie Bailey LP's Chief Financial Officer and with me today are Curt Stevens LP's Chief Executive Officer; as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley our primary Investor Relation contacts.
I'd like to take a moment on behalf of LP to express our sympathy and concern for those who have been touched by the devastation of Hurricane Sandy.
Our thoughts are with all of our friends in the Northeast as they begin to recover and rebuild their lives.
I'll begin the discussion today with a review of the financial results for the third quarter of 2012.
This will be followed by some of the comments on the performance of individual segments and selected balance sheet items.
After I finish my remarks Curt will discuss the general market environment in which LP has been operating provide his perspective on our operating results for the third quarter of 2012 and give some thoughts on our outlook.
As we have done in the past we've opened up this call to the public and are doing a webcast.
The webcast can be accessed at www.lpcorp.com.
Additionally to help with the discussion we have provided a presentation with supplemental information that should be reviewed in conjunction with the earnings release.
I will be referencing these slides this morning in my comments.
We also filed an 8-K this morning with some supplemental information as well as our 10-Q.
I want to remind all participants about the forward-looking comments on Slide 2 of the presentation.
Please also be aware of the discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial information included on Slide 3 of the presentation.
The Appendix attached to the presentation has some of the necessary reconciliations that have been supplemented by the Form 8-K filing we made this morning.
Rather than reading these 2 statements I incorporate them the with this reference.
We are reporting stronger results for the third quarter.
This is the first quarter in 2 years we are reporting net income on a GAAP basis.
The trends in U.S.
housing statistics have been favorable over the past 9 months and the improvement in our end markets and corresponding rebound in OSB demand are reflected in our improved financial performance.
Turning to Slide 4 of the presentation for a discussion of the third quarter of 2012 results compared to the same quarter last year the second quarter as well as the year-to-date information.
We reported net sales of $468 million for the third quarter of 2012 a 33% increase from the sales reported for the third quarter of 2011.
In the third quarter of 2012 we reported net income of $31 million or $0.22 per diluted share.
In the third quarter of 2011 we reported a net loss from continuing operations of $59 million or $0.44 loss per diluted share on $351 million of net sales.
In the third quarter of 2011 we recorded an impairment on the Houlton LSL facility for approximately $65 million and the $10 million reversal of a portion of the ABTco siding class-action reserve.
The GAAP tax rate for the quarter is 20% on continuing operation which reflects our ongoing inability to record a tax benefit on Canadian losses.
The adjusted income from continuing operations which excludes certain items such as impairment for the quarter is $29 million or $0.20 per share based upon a normalized tax rate of 35% compared to a loss of $26 million or a $0.19 loss per share in the third quarter of 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $75 million in the quarter compared to negative EBITDA of $3 million in the third quarter of 2011.
Another solid improvement in adjusted EBITDA $78 million higher than the third quarter of 2011 on an increase in net sales of $117 million and with cash flow generation of $63 million in the quarter.
On a year-to-date basis we recorded $1.3 billion in net sales $17 million net loss and a loss per share of $0.13 as compared to net sales of $1 billion and net loss from continuing operations of $115 million and a loss from continuing operations of $0.87 per share in the first 9 months of 2011.
On a non-GAAP basis we recorded adjusted operating income of $66 million earnings per share of $0.17 and adjusted EBITDA of $133 million for the first 9 months of 2012 significant improvement over the same period in 2011 when we recorded an operating loss of $53 million a loss per share of $0.51 and adjusted EBITDA $7 million.
I'll now move to Slide 5 and the review of our segment results.
Starting with OSB.
OSB recorded operating income of $49 million in the quarter compared to a loss of $16 million in the third quarter of 2011.
For the quarter in terms of adjusted EBITDA we're reporting $60 million as compared to negative EBITDA of $5 million in the third quarter of 2011.
For the quarter we had an 11% increase in volume.
Sales volumes increased primarily due to improved housing starts.
Pricing for OSB was up 50% over the third quarter of 2011.
The improvement in pricing was the most significant contributor to the improved OSB performance.
As we discussed in last quarter's call our pricing rate of improvement will differ from Random Lengths North Central 7/16 changes due to our different geographical footprint broader product offerings and value-added products.
In particular in a quarter with such steep increases in commodity OSB prices value-added product price increases did change at a much lower rate.
The increase in selling price favorably impacted operating results and adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations by approximately $71 million for the quarter as compared to the same period in 2011.
The improved price of OSB has another impact on our earnings through the accounting for our 50% interest in the Peace Valley OSB mill.
As a reminder we purchased 100% of the production of Peace Valley at a market price less the commission.
We sell 100% of the product.
Both the sales and the cost of sales are included in our income statement.
Our OSB margins are negatively impacted when the cost for us to buy the product from Peace Valley is greater than the cost to produce the product.
LP's 50% interest in the earnings from the joint venture's recorded on our income statement in the equity and income or loss of unconsolidated affiliates.
This amount is also delineated in our reconciliation of EBITDA from continuing operations filed as part of our 8-K this morning.
In the third quarter of 2012 Peace Valley contributed $5 million to OSB's adjusted EBITDA as compared to decrease in the third quarter 2011 OSB adjusted EBITDA by $2 million.
For the year sales are up 39% to $571 million with adjusted EBITDA improving by $111 million to $98 million.
Volumes have improved by 10% and pricing is 27% higher.
Slide 6 reports the results of the Siding business.
This segment includes our SmartSide and CanExel siding products and commodity OSB produced in our Hayward mill.
The Siding segment reported sales of $134 million in the third quarter of 2012 an increase of 20% from $112 million reported in the third quarter of 2011.
The Siding segment reported operating income of $20 million compared to $12 million in the third quarter of 2011 and adjusted EBITDA of $24 million an increase of $8 million compared to the third quarter of 2011.
For the quarter SmartSide average sales prices were up 2% and volumes increased 15%.
Volume increased in our SmartSide siding line due to continued penetration in several key focused markets including retail repair and remodel markets and shots.
CanExel prices were up 2% and volumes were up 26%.
As we discussed last quarter quarter-to-quarter changes to CanExel sales are driven primarily by supply chain patterns.
Our distributors built inventory through the first half of 2011 and that bled inventory through the second half.
Sales in 2012 reflect normal demand levels.
We continue to anticipate that we will end 2012 with sales volumes in line with 2011 levels.
On a year-to-date basis the Siding segment recorded $384 million in sales $56 million in operating income and $69 million in adjusted EBITDA.
For the first 9 months of 2011 the Siding segment recorded sales of $337 million operating income of $36 million and adjusted EBITDA of $49 million.
The improvement from the first 9 months of 2011 is driven by increased volume of 14% in SmartSide and higher sales price of about $6 million related to improved OSB pricing for product produced in our Hayward mill.
Please turn to Slide 7 of the presentation which shows the results from our Engineered Wood Products segment.
This segment includes I-Joist Laminated Strand Lumber Laminated Veneer Lumber plus other related products.
The segment also includes the sale of I-Joist and LVL products produced by the Abitibi joint venture or under a sales arrangement with Murphy plywood.
The Engineered Wood Product segment sales increased $62 million in the third quarter of 2012 from $55 million in the third quarter of 2011.
The segment's operating loss and adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter of 2012 is approximately the same as the loss in the same period a year ago.
Volumes of I-Joist were up 20% due to increased demand related to housing starts while volumes of LVL and LSL were flat compared to the same quarter last year.
Pricing was even in LVL and LSL and down 1% in I-Joist due to changes in mix in both product lines and with individual product pricing remaining relatively flat.
On a year-to-date basis Engineered Wood Products reported net sales of $162 million an operating loss of $9 million and breakeven EBITDA.
For the first 9 months of 2011 Engineered Wood Products reported net sales of $157 million a loss of $12 million and negative adjusted EBITDA of $1 million.
Volumes in pricing for LVL and LSL were essentially flat relative to the prior year while I-Joist volumes increased 14% and pricing for I-Joist decreased 1%.
Moving on to Slide 8 of the presentation.
For the quarter our South American segment recorded sales of $42 million compared to sales of $36 million in the third quarter of 2011.
Operating income of $5 million was twice as high as the operating income reported in the third quarter of 2011.
South America's adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $8 million for the third quarter 2012 compared to $5 million reported in the third quarter of 2011.
Volumes in Chile were up 18% while volumes in Brazil increased by 15% compared to the same quarter last year.
For Chile changes in volume were due to continued strong demand as wood frame housing market penetration increased due to rebuilding efforts.
The sales volumes increase in Chile were primarily sourced by imports from the U.S.
Canada and Brazil.
The imported sales have minimal margin associated with them due to high cost of freight.
In Brazil the improved volume came from higher export sales to China and increased penetration in local market.
Pricing was up 1% in Chile and down 10% in Brazil.
These changes in price are primarily related to changes in foreign exchange rates.
And local currency both Chile and Brazil reported an improved pricing of approximately 4% in Chile and over 10% in Brazil.
For the first 9 months of 2012 South America recorded net sales of $127 million operating profit of $11 million and adjusted EBITDA of $20 million.
For the first 9 months of 2011 South America recorded net sales of $111 million profit of $10 million and adjusted EBITDA of $19 million.
Volumes in Chile for the year are similar to the increased volume reported in the third quarter.
In Brazil year-to-date volumes are slightly down from a year ago due to lower export sales especially in the second quarter.
In local currency our Chilean and Brazilian operations recorded improvement year-to-date of approximately 9% for pricing.
Our Molding business U.S.
GreenFiber joint venture and various non-US operating facilities are shown in the other buildings product segment.
Overall we are showing a loss of $2 million in the third quarter of 2012 which is $1 million -- which is a $1 million improvement due to performance of our GreenFiber Joint Venture compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Operating results for the first 9 months of 2012 improved by $1.4 million.
Total selling general and administrative expenses were $31 million in the third quarter of 2012 compared to $26 million in the same quarter of 2011.
For the first 9 months of 2012 selling general and administrative expenses were $93 million compared to $83 million for the first 9 months of 2011.
The increase in SG&amp;A costs is primarily due to the accrual of 2012 management bonuses.
We did not record any bonus accruals in 2011.
We had a $400 000 foreign exchange gain in the quarter compared to a $4 million loss in the same quarter last year.
The swing is primarily related to our Brazilian and Chilean operations.
For the first 9-month period we recorded a $2.3 million loss in 2012 compared to $1.6 million loss in 2011.
Interest expense was $10.7 million in the quarter compared to $14.2 million in the third quarter of 2011.
This reduction in interest expense for the quarter and year-to-date was primarily related to the lower interest expense we recorded due to the refinancing as well as lower amortization related to our deferred debt expense.
We recorded $4.1 million in investment income in the third quarter of 2012 as compared to $16.7 million in the third quarter of 2011.
The high investment income in 2011 is primarily due to the realization of $15.2 million on the sale of auction rate security.
Turning to Slide 9 of the presentation as of September 30 2012 we had cash cash equivalents investments and restricted cash of $504 million.
We had net working capital of $688 million net cash of $102 million and in addition to the $504 million of cash on our balance sheet we had a $100 million of availability on our asset-based loan facility.
Capital expenditures for the 9 months were $16 million and received $7 million from our joint ventures.
Given the improvement in our 2012 results and positive cash flow generation we are increasing our estimate of capital expenditures for the year from $25 million to approximately $35 million as we begin to pull forward projects from 2013 and investment growth capital projects such as the expansion of our Two Harbors mill and a third mill in Chile.
Now I'll turn the call over to Curt for his comments.
Thank you for that review Sallie.
I could tell you're excited by the results as I am and the outlook looking forward for housing.
I want to use my time today to talk about 3 areas: The housing market discuss with you some of the work we're doing internally to identify the pinch points in our supply chain and share my thoughts on the fourth quarter and next year.
Before I do that let me give you a few comments on our safety record so far this year.
Through 9 months our Total Incident Rate stands at 0.55.
Remarkably through that same period our OSB business has had only 1 recordable injury that puts them at a TIR of 0.16.
Over the summer we believe that our Panguipulli OSB mill in Chile became the first structural panel mill in the world to work over 2 million hours without a recordable injury.
Again a focus for LP.
There's a lot of good continuing news in the housing market being reported.
The September annual rate of housing starts was at 872 000 35% greater than the same time last year.
Single-family starts were at 603 and multi-family at 269.
The September annual rate for the permits was nearly 900 000: 545 000 single-family; 349 000 multi-family.
The 3-months rolling average for single-family permits has been on upward trend since April of 2011 a leading indicator that we watch very carefully.
The current consensus forecast as reported by APA for housing starts stands at 759 000 through this year and 931 000 through 2013.
New home inventory remains very very low at 115 000 and existing home inventory for sale is below 2.5 million.
Foreclosures remain at very low levels 180 000 in September.
And home prices are on the rise in most regions.
One of the few negatives is that residential remodeling had a slight rise in the first half of this year and has slid backwards the last several months.
While this is good news particularly after what has happened in the last 6 or 7 years there are certainly some headwinds.
The result of today's election will have a profound effect on the economic health and direction of our country.
Europe remains in crisis and China is slowing.
What this will mean for the U.S.
economic recovery remains to be seen.
The fiscal cliff seems to be the next big economic crisis.
We will need to have a more productive political environment to solve this problem in a timely manner.
Availability for credit for mortgages yes we have low interest rates but not everyone who wants to buy a house has a credit score north of 780 and have a 20% down payment.
Builders have been raising the issue of lot shortages and the high cost of land.
The length of time to gain approval for new development has stretched out due to the shrinkage of local governments and their staff.
Our own balance it is our belief that we are in the midst of a sustainable housing recovery and we are taking steps to be ready to meet higher demand.
At the same time we will remain agile to respond quickly to any short-term disruptions to this recovery.
Turning to the supply chain and our internal review of our supply chain risk.
We have identified many potential problem areas that can be grouped into 5 broad categories.
First category is fiber.
In the U.S.
we do not believe there's a shortage of fiber in any of the regions where our facilities are located.
The growth versus drain has been very positive due to less fiber demand in the downturn and better forestry practices.
Another potential threat to the supply biomass energy uses has also dissipated due to the low cost to natural gas.
In Canada there is no shortage of fiber but access to that fiber is under attack.
Specifically the change in the management of the Québec provincial forest land for manufacturing company's to the government is a bit concerning.
Also the Canadian Boreal Forest Agreement is now 3 years old and is in a challenging point in time.
A more immediate concern is our belief that the logging and transportation infrastructure has been damaged during the downturn.
We are spending an increasing amount of time with our core suppliers to rebuild this capability by providing them with committed volumes that will allow them to reinvest in equipment and people to meet our needs.
On the manufacturing side.
As you all know during the downturn we closed a number of OSB facilities permanently and shuttered several others definitely.
As the recovery gains momentum with greater levels of new construction and repair remodeling activity we will need to reopen capacity to meet our customer needs.
For OSB a general rule of thumb is each 100 000 housing starts equates to about 1.1 billion square feet of OSB demand plus another 300 million to 400 million square feet related to other uses.
As an example looking at APA's reported numbers North American OSB production was about 15.6 billion square feet in 2011 and it is expected to rise to 17.8 billion square feet this year on an expected housing increase of about 150 000 units.
APA reports in 2012 this increase in demand was satisfied by filling out shifts at currently running mills.
In fact in Q3 we ran all of our U.S.
mills at full capacity.
That means for LP that our only remaining surge capacity is in Canada.
If there are another 150 000 to 175 000 housing starts next year then we believe there could be demand for another 1.5 billion to 2 billion square feet of OSB.
We can add shifts in our Canadian mills and we'll likely do so if there is regional demand next year.
In the Southeast we can only meet increased demand by restarting an idled mill.
LP's idled 1.6 billion square feet of capacity is in 3 mills: Our Clarke County Thomasville is a new mill that ran for a few months in 2008.
This mill is located in one of the highest the regions for OSB as housing recovers.
Our Chambord Québec mill has been down since 2007 and our Dawson Creek mill has been done for about a year and mostly focusing on value-added OSB products tax shield radiant barrier and flooring.
On our last call I said that we would consider starting one of our curtailed OSB mill if we saw housing starts approach 850 000.
Well it came quicker than we thought with last month's reported annualized housing start rate at 872 000 and permits at nearly 900 000.
As a result we are putting plans in place and beginning to do the work necessary to bring on shifts or restart idled capacity to meet our customers needs regionally.
Our current thoughts are that we will add a 4 shift at our Peace Valley mill in British Columbia in Q1 we will restart at Clarke County mill in Q2 and we will consider the restart of Dawson Creek.
In the first part of 2014 we see housing starts headed towards 1 million.
In Siding.
Our Siding goal is to always have capacity in front of demand in this product line.
Over the summer our board approved a $6 million-plus project or expand our capacity at Two Harbors mill while increasing the technical capabilities.
In Hayward we have a 2-line mill where one of the lines has been dedicated to OSB.
We have already made the necessary capital investments to very quickly convert this production to Siding.
We're fully engaged and looking at ways to increase capacity at the existing Siding mills and have started discussions on the next OSB mill to convert for a new site.
The next area in the supply chain is finished goods distribution.
There's a shortage of both truck drivers and equipment primarily flat bed.
The downturn removed much of the available capacity in the new DOT rules that apply to drivers drastically cut the supply of these workers.
In response LP has dedicated more resources toward building of our own in-house capability through our New Waverly Transportation company.
Here we manage safety sales dispatch and collections for qualified owner-operators.
Plus we have to be ever diligent and work in the railroads to add equipment in a timely manner that meet their delivery commitments particularly in Canada or the CP and CN [ph] run virtual monopolies.
Next here is our channel and customers.
We do not take the product the last mile.
We don't deliver to the job site.
So we need to focus not only on the transportation of our customer but also have a clear understanding of our customers inventory policies and plans and their downstream transportation capabilities.
Our customers share many of the same concerns we do shortage of transportation equipment and drivers.
Then one other concern that we have solved is strengthening of our balance sheet access to capital debt inventory and expand their business.
Underlying all of this is the fifth area and that's people.
I attended the Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies Policy and Advisory Board Meeting several weeks ago.
One of the questions that was asked as part of the roundtable was around anticipated bottlenecks if there's a strong housing recovery.
Universally a shortage of qualified labor was at the top of the list.
I've already talked about loggers.
10 years ago the average logger is 48 now they're 58.
And truck drivers.
Anyone with a trade skill electricians millwrights process control technicians at the mills and framers electricians plumbers HVAC bricklayers and more at the job sites.
Drug tests are increasingly a problem.
Immigration policies and guest workers.
So as a general rule we were on the table it took 10 interviews to hire for one position.
Looking in to the fourth quarter and 2013.
We have been getting slightly different stories on the fourth quarter depending on who we talked to.
The builders are very bullish and concerned about an adequate supply in materials and labor.
The channel remains skittish and unwilling to commit to inventory for a fear of another false start.
The retailers are seeing some pickup in demand with Home Depot being more aggressive.
Sallie mentioned Hurricane Sandy earlier a tragedy.
For building products there has been some impact.
To meet the demands of the initial phases of cleanup and temporary repairs we are working with our channel partners to provide the products they need.
And in some cases that has meant prioritizing our inventory and increasing production scheduling to the upcoming holiday periods to make sure we have availability.
As rebuilding starts in the Northeast we will factor this additional demand into our plan to react to continuing signs of an improving demand for our products.
For 2013 we have done all our initial planning on 850 000 housing starts which now looks to be conservative.
But my perspective I'm probably not going to change this forecast until I have assurance that we won't fall off the fiscal cliff.
But as we have done in the last 7 years a budget is an interesting document a forecast is for planning but decisions are made daily based on now casting.
Flexibility and agility will continue to be critical skills for our organization.
With that let me turn it back to Sallie.
Thank you Curt.
Catherine we're now ready for questions if we could go to the queue.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from the line of Mark Connelly from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Curt do you have a timetable for the Engineered Wood business to become consistently profitable as you think about the rest of this? And is that a core business? And if so why is it a core business? Second question is with respect to your last comment on distribution.
Neither of your 2 predecessors expressed interest in having an in-house distribution business.
Could we see that change given the environment you're facing now? Well let me address the EWP business.
As we have talked about for the last several years it is part of our core strategy because it helps us frame the full house for our customers.
We do believe that there is so much excess supply in EWP that until we see a million housing starts it won't be consistently profitable is our best guess.
I will say it was positive EBITDA in Q3 which was certainly a positive.
So it remains core.
We do see that with the shortage of lumber coming out of British Columbia due to the beetle kill and the advent of the Chinese business plus some of the changes in design values for southern yellow pine that builders won't increasingly turn towards Engineered Woods as a solution.
As far as in-house distribution Mark I got to tell you I looked at that so many different times and it looks to me like negative synergies.
So I don't think you'll see a change under me.
I can see that there's not much value to us.
The next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Curt I guess just a couple of questions.
One any sense of what you think really drove the pop in OSB pricing because clearly it didn't seem like you expected it on the last earnings call? And in terms of your realization I understand the regional difference is the mix but was there any carryover where it might have just been a delay and you'll see some pricing slip into the fourth quarter or is it more that you just didn't transact at the peak prices? Well your first question was on...
Research Division</strong> What you think that drove...
Drove the price? Research Division</strong> Yes drove the price.
It didn't seem like you are anyone expected to kind of on earnings call last quarter and then all of a sudden prices ran? Yes.
I think that -- yes I think that when pricing went up in Q3 I think the buyers put away their PO books.
So while we had high prices that were published there wasn't a lot of business transacted at those prices because they are waiting for pricing to come down.
And it did come down but it didn't come down as far as they thought it would and then housing starts came out.
And I believe that they all got spooked and said "With housing starts that high I guess I got to put some inventory on the ground." And when they started to do that then pricing headed up.
Now what's happened in the fourth quarter so far and I talked about it briefly is with Hurricane Sandy there is going to be some pull for demand from that.
And that's likely to whole pricing at today's levels is my expectation.
As far as the value-added piece generally our value-added products are priced looking backwards over a period of time so there's a longer index attached to those.
So we'll see a little carryover into Q4.
But in general that's what you see in a rapidly rising market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of bringing for Clarke County Brack online have you started the process already or you kind of already along the process or as you changed your view fiscal cliff or whatever that you're not too far along to change that decision? Well when I took over in May one of the first things I did is asked Jeff Wagner who heads up our OSB business to really do this whole supply chain risk analysis for us.
And we identified that we needed articulated start-up plans for the 3 facilities that are down and then we needed to have good plans in place to add shifts.
So one of the first things we did is commissioned each of the businesses to make sure that we did have those plans in place.
So that when we decided to trigger it then we know what to do.
So we actually started the planning effort last May but it accelerated really in the last month as we saw housing starts coming out of the higher levels and permits at the higher levels.
Now what we said before is that it was about a 9-month time frame to bring that up and roughly $10 million between capital and working capital.
That's probably a pretty good estimate.
So that's why I'm saying Q2 of next year.
Now I will -- and again I will be very clear on this we are going to remain agile.
So we're taking the steps necessary.
We're dealing with a long lead time things but if we do have a pause in the recovery due to the fiscal cliff in the first half of the year we will make some adjustments.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last quick question.
Within Siding it looks like OSB production was flat quarter-on-quarter and I thought you were supposed to be kind of transitioning some of the commodity into higher-value Siding products.
Has that been pushed out or is there any change in how to think about that? You're saying OSB and Siding? Research Division</strong> The commodity in Siding -- the commodity OSB within Siding.
It looked like production was kind of flat sequentially and I would have expected it to go down a little bit as you moved up the value chain.
Well what we did in Siding is we added 4 shifts at all 3 of our smaller mills and we ran those 24/7.
So we satisfied the increased demand for Siding out of those other 3 mills.
My comments on growth going forward is we do have the ability to shift that production to Siding when demand requires it.
The next question comes from the line of Mike Roxland from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on your OSB costs.
It seems as though the cost on per MSF basis moved higher versus 2Q.
Is that totally just due to the JV or are you seeing any particular increase in cost whether it be resin or nat gas to maybe impacting your operations in 3Q? Right.
Sure.
Actually when we looked at our cost Q3 to Q2 without the Peace Valley joint venture they're pretty much the same.
They're actually below where they were in the third quarter of 2011.
So it's really the impact of the Peace Valley joint venture.
Research Division</strong> And the other cost you refer as the other cost really were neutral quarter-over-quarter? Right.
And of course we add more throughput as well.
So that's really the biggest change on what you're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just one quick question on what Gail has mentioned the last question on the capacity.
How quickly can you react to the market? So if the fiscal cliff really takes effect in January and you've already started to bring up Clarke County.
I mean how quickly can you react to that? And if it doesn't actually materialize and you do bring up Clarke County what type of production should we expect see out of it in 2013? Well the rating capacity of that mill is about 750 000 so you probably see somewhere -- assume it starts in the second quarter it cuts it in half and it's a start up so you're probably talking about 250 million to 300 million square feet of it for next year.
Now how quickly what we would do is we just wouldn't -- we'd continue to train the people and recruit the people but we wouldn't start the capacity -- or wouldn't start the machinery.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So you have people in place just in case that does turn around so you'll be able to start the machine pretty quickly? My view is the fiscal cliff is going to be a short-lived crisis because we just can't afford to let that happen to the country.
So if Congress can't get together and solve the problem by the end of the year we could have a dip in Q1.
But I'm convinced whoever the new administration is we'll have a mandate to fix it.
So it will probably get fixed in the first quarter then we'll come back out of it.
So I see there's more of a 2 to 4 month delay than a fundamental change in demand.
The next question comes from the line of Joe Stivaletti from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of things.
So if I understood right the 903 million square feet of production in OSB in the third quarter that was your mills in the U.S.
full out and then in Canada you feel you can move that up a bit in the fourth quarter so I wondered what that would likely add if you run -- what you will likely produce in the fourth quarter given that plan? Well it depends on what the demand is Joe.
But in Peace Valley we're only running 5 days a week there and we don't intend to run a full 24/7 until the first quarter of next year.
So we don't have any additional capacity coming out of there.
Our shifting patterns in Swan and Maniwaki are really focused at their regional demand.
Maniwaki we do -- opportunistically do some export business out of Maniwaki.
And so depending on what export pricing is we could kick that up or down.
I don't -- fundamentally I think you're probably going to be somewhere between Q2 and Q3 pretty flat.
Now what we did do and I talked about it on the last quarterly call on the fourth quarter we usually take downtime around the holidays because of Sandy we are looking at running some of our mills through that that holiday period just to supply this incremental demand that's required in the Atlantic seaboard.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess I had 2 other things.
One was what are your thoughts in general on the announcements you've seen by the industry as a whole looking at 2013? Do you think that -- would you characterize the industry as being rational? Do you feel that people are being possibly too optimistic with some of these reopenings or...
Well I think I would just go back to what I talked about.
If you look at incremental demand that would come from 150 000 to 175 000 housing starts it's somewhere between 1.5 billion or 2 billion square feet of capacity.
So we need that incremental capacity to satisfy the demand should it come forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then given the stronger environment you talked about increasing your CapEx slightly for 2012.
What are your thoughts on CapEx for 2013 and what kinds of projects are you focusing on? Yes.
Joe as we think about 2013 I think we've often talked about the need for just maintenance capital for each of our mills someplace between $1 million to $2 million.
And as you know we've been on the low end of that for quite a few years.
So I think you can start with a program that would be close to $2 million for plant that would put us in the $50 million range.
And then potential growth projects on top of that including the Chilean mill which was a third mill in Chile which we're looking at.
And we'll look at other growth capital opportunities which would put us someplace I'd say from modeling purposes right now that if you look at $60 million so that would be probably a good starting point.
Research Division</strong> What's the Chilean -- what's the cost of -- roughly the cost of what you're considering there? Well what we're considering is relocating an idled facility in North America down there.
It'll be a larger capacity in either of the mills that are down there now because frankly there is no more smaller mills around.
So we are currently thinking -- we did the first one for $25 million we did the second one for $35 million.
I'm thinking this one is probably going to be $50 million over the 3-year period.
The next question comes from Chip Dillon from Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> When you look at your tax situation I know you had about I want to say $170 million I guess of carryforwards.
And I guess if you look at the federal government it's like 60 and 60 U.S.
and Canada roughly at the end of last year.
How do you -- let's say you stay profitable so let's assume that how should we think about how that gets used up? I mean I guess there's some minimum cash taxes you have to pay? I mean does it -- can you use it up to certain tax or down to a certain tax rate? Or how should we think about how that gets used up? And is the reason the number might not be higher is because you had a lot of tax loss carrybacks I guess you call them that you took advantage of earlier? I'll answer those questions in reverse order.
Yes it's because we utilized the cash -- the carryback as much as we can.
And going forward I think you should anticipate that we will utilize the Federal and the Canadian tax net operating loss as much as we can.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And maybe the way you would encourage us to I guess think about modeling the company I don't -- well first of all the book tax rate is obviously well below that 35% normal number.
When do you think the book tax rate could get to that level? And again I'll give you my assumption.
Let's say that you your pretax income exceeds of say $100 million next year.
Right.
So the book and the cash tax rates are not -- will generally not be the same as I think you're aware of.
LLC</strong> Of course.
Right.
So as soon as Canada begins to become profitable those Canadian -- that Canadian income will get taxed at the Canadian tax rate which has -- I don't have it right at hand.
What was it? 26% that's what I was thinking.
It's about 26% or 27%.
So for modeling purposes it depends -- we certainly have net operating losses in both countries that should -- that we'll utilize in 2013.
LLC</strong> So maybe just a way to think about.
Let's say we get into sort of a profitable steady state in a couple of years.
You would have 35% in the U.S.
plus a few percent for federal -- I'm sorry for state.
But then the Canadian part would be taxed at lower rate.
So the blend if everything is profitable probably doesn't get much above 33% 34%.
Is that a fair guess? Of course.
That's exactly how we did the 35%.
And you have to remember the Chilean rates the Chile and Brazil as well.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And they're higher than Canada? No no no they're -- let me -- I found my sheet.
All right.
So Chile is now at 20% Canada is around -- just under 27%.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So a lot of companies will show something north of 35% because of state taxes.
But because of the -- assuming you make decent profits or proportionately your profitable these are the regions you should be below I mean 35% actually looks conservative.
Well and remember again this is going to be -- Chip that's going to be -- the book we're still going to have book expense even as we used the NOL with the exception of -- you have to think about how Canada goes back into that because we haven't been able to take valuation allowances against that.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then shifting gears a little bit on the -- you've given us your thoughts about sort of how you might bring up the capacity given the demand changes.
And I think you mentioned the first thing would be a shift at Peace Valley and a fourth shift and I think that capacity is at 820 million square feet which I don't know if that's based on 4 shifts or how -- I mean does that mean the increment is like 200 million or how should we think about that one? That's the way you should think about it.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then of course Clarke County is still 750 million but if you start that in the second quarter I mean there'll be some learning curve there I guess of course since it really hasn't opened up before? Right.
And that's why I said that next year we started middle of second quarter let's call it that that would be between 250 million and 300 million is what you would out of that mill as a quality products.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
So Curt should be thinking about your incremental production capability next year as that 200 million plus the 250 million to 300 million so 450 million to 500 million or are there some other variables that could be at play? That's probably reasonable.
I think the only variable at play as I mentioned Maniwaki we're not running full out and we could look at some export business incrementally there.
Okay.
But that's not a big number presumably? Not a big number.
I wouldn't go into unlikely going to this market.
Let me just step back a minute.
We looked at running Maniwaki and Swan Valley full out to satisfy the demand of the U.S.
The problem is the Canadian dollar the dollar too and the rail freight coming from either Maniwaki or Swan Valley just makes it so compelling to open up Clarke County that basically you swap out that volume.
So we're not going to run that volume in Canada instead we're going to run it in Clarke County.
It's currency and freight play.
And when we think about the cost of the new incremental capacity at Clarke I guess you are -- it's going to be kind of a fully loaded cost but it's a brand-new mill so maybe a little lower than the average in your system is that fair? And then Peace Valley since it's incremental capacity and a mill that's already running I would imagine that could be a fair bit lower? I think your second comment is true.
Your first comment remember we're going to be in a start-up mode next year so anytime you are in start-up mode your costs are higher.
Okay.
And that beyond the $10 million you're just in general? $10 million is just working capital and capital.
Got it.
And then as we look to 2014 presumably much of the balance -- obviously you're going to be responsive to market conditions but in terms of potential you would have much of the balance of Clarke.
So it could be as much as 450 million in 2014.
And then I think you had mentioned and I apologize -- what did you mentioned about in the first quarter of 2014 being under consideration? Well Dawson Creek is our specialty mill and so as we see demand for our flooring on our textile radiant barrier products we would consider bringing that up in the first part of 2014 to satisfy that product need in the West Coast.
And can you remind us what's the capacity at Dawson Creek? I think it's 450 million.
Okay.
And then there's a third mill in your system which basically is not in the plans at this point is that...
It's in Chambord Québec and we believe we can satisfy incremental regional demand for Maniwaki and from Swan without having to bring that up.
So we wouldn't think about bringing that mill up until we have Swan and Maniwaki from regional standpoint filled out.
The next question comes from Mark Wilde from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Firstly I just had a question about Clarke County.
Are you going to bring that up Curt on 4 shifts or might you do something like we're you run 2 or 3 shifts as it comes back in the market? Mark I'm going to let Jeff make that decision.
That's in his operating plan.
I honestly don't know.
Research Division</strong> Well it sounds Curt like over the last several years you guys have gotten more comfortable at running these mills at something less than 24/7 without really blowing the cost structure up.
So I'm just curious as to whether that's something you're thinking about with Clarke County.
I'd tell you if I knew.
Jeff is running that program Mark.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
That's fine.
Second question I have can you just remind us kind of puts and calls that might in place around that Peace Valley JV? Well it's a 50-50 JV and there is a modified shotgun with tag-along rights.
So I Canfor would like sell their interest -- well first of all I'll tell you I'm not selling my interest Mark.
So LP is not selling.
But if Canfor we're looking for an opportunity to get cash.
It would have a couple of things.
One they can negotiate directly with us which would probably make the most sense.
Second thing they could market their 50% but we have a right of first refusal on that.
And if it's a crazy price then we have drag-along right so we could choose to sell our piece to the new buyer as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then one  other question and I hate to have you make too much of this before you have the money on your pockets but just uses of cash flow during this upturn.
It seems like if you look at the OSB business industry as a whole where producers have really struggled with how they use cash during the upturn.
The last upturn we had an awful lot of new capacity added and some acquisitions made that didn't work out very well.
What are you guys thinking about over the next 2 or 3 years for use of your cash? Well one of the things you just mentioned that we have some joint ventures that are strategic to our businesses going forward.
So to the extent that our joint venture partners would like to exit those that would be use of cash in there.
I'm thinking not only the Canfor joint venture but the Abitibi JV and then we do have the sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood which is a very low-cost producer of LVL in the West Coast that we'd also be interested in adding to our portfolio.
But that's the piece of it.
The Chilean mill we talked about earlier we do plan on going forward with that assuming the analysis comes out appropriately and I think it will.
So those are some.
And then as you know in the past we've had dividends we've had share repurchase programs and all that's part of our ongoing look at what we would do with excess cash.
And of course in 2016 the notes that we issued earlier this year become callable.
Correct.
The only thing I'd like to add to that because I remind our team here in Nashville around the  country of this with some frequency that we'd like to see that cash flow generated first.
So while we're very thrilled with the $63 million generated [indiscernible]...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
that's why I hated to ask the question but...
And I appreciate the question Mark because it gave me an opportunity to -- for us to respond.
But we're really pleased with the cash flow generation we have this quarter.
I mean $63 million but we'd like to see that -- see us generate the cash before we start spending that.
Research Division</strong> Well I think we're all on the same camp Sallie.
It's just that over time the use of cash has been a real challenge in the business.
The next question comes from Steve Chercover from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> My questions have been answered but you have 3 idled mills if I'm not saying mistaken Saint-Michel Athens and Silsbee.
Are they all candidates to be taken down to Brazil? They are and we also have some other options as well.
Remember we have the Woodland mill.
And we still have peripheral equipment sitting all over the place.
So there's many options but that's the point that those mills are bigger than what we had before.
So the milling goes down there's probably going to be 350 million to 400 million square foot mill.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And not to jump the gun but I think the South American strategy has been pretty effective.
I mean is there even one OSB mill in Mexico? Would it make sense to try and replicate the strategy kind of a little closer to home? We need trees and we believe we need a stable political environment and a place where you'd actually want your employees to go.
Research Division</strong> You can't use cactuses [ph] I guess? It's just...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you just maybe articulate what the challenges of bringing up a mill that hasn't been utilized for 4 or 5 years are? Because you're not the only guys who are planning to bring on mills that have been idled for substantial period.
Well we had a skeleton crew at Clarke County including a mill manager and a maintenance superintendent.
So we think the machine centers are all in pretty good shape.
I think the biggest challenge we're going to have is in the hiring process.
And that's where we got to get started relatively early and that's the skilled trades.
Bringing in the maintenance people bringing in the electricians bringing in the process control people.
So that's probably going to be the biggest challenge I think for us is bring those people in and getting them trained up to run the mill now.
The advantage we have is we have other mills in the area so we can bring workers from our other mills in on a periodic or a short-term basis.
But that's I think going to be the biggest challenge.
Research Division</strong> And how do the machine centers degrade if you hadn't had on-site maintenance? Well if you don't bump the motors you could have a lot of rust.
You could have mold you could have a whole bunch of problems.
So if you don't lubricate the conveyors you got to rebuild a lot of the bearings and those kinds of things.
The next question comes from the line of Paul Quinn from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
One is just on OSB production volumes were down 2% quarter-over-quarter despite the robust demand.
I'm just wondering if you had any operational issues in the quarter why we saw a less production? We did.
We actually had log shortages in 2 of our facilities and then we had a piece of equipment go out I think in our Jasper mill and we lost a couple of days of production.
So it was with log outages in 2 mills and then we had about 3 days of downtime on a piece of equipment at Jasper.
And some weather in Maniwaki.
And some weather in Maniwaki.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then it seems like this is the third quarter in a row where the analyst community sort of overestimated what you're going to do in the quarter and we're probably most guilty in this.
So I understand the sort of the value-added component to your mix and why that pricing improvement will be slower.
But maybe if you could give us some detail around your sales channels and how each of those channels whether it's to the pro dealers to industrial customers or to the retail segment differs from the print prices? Well that's a...
LLC Research Division</strong> Easy question easy easy.
When we look at it the wood that we have on contract generally it's about a 2-week lag.
So if you back off you take the 13-week average during the quarter and you go back to in to the prior quarter and you back the last 2 weeks out of the current quarter that's going to give you a good indication of what the wood we sell into the home centers going forward right.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that percentage is approximately? It's about 25%.
And then if you look at the open market wood what you're doing there and I think again I think you all may understand this what we're trying to do it open market wood is we're anticipating what the price is going to be when we deliver to them.
And so we're guessing out 2 to 3 weeks what the price is going to be and that's what the buyer contracts with us on.
If they think price is going down then they'll offer a lower price.
If they think the price is going up they'll offer a higher prices.
So that could be -- again depending on which direction it goes could be coupled positively or negatively.
And then we do have a small amount of export.
I talked about the export going into in Maniwaki so that's going to have some impact on the overall because that's going out at a lower price.
So adding a contribution margin but it's not the same prices we're getting in the U.S.
And the reason for that is we couldn't sell that wood in the U.S.
without affecting the price negative and that's why it's going offshore.
So the single biggest reason is that value-added I talked about.
We did about 38% of our product was in value added.
And only -- so 2/3 was in commodity and 1/3 was in the value-added piece.
And then the other piece is the whole regional pricing as we operate in all different regions.
The other thing Paul I just want to be clear on this the people who we sell to in open market have been in this business a long time and they're very sophisticated.
They buy less product at the top of the market than they do when the market is coming down.
I mean they're good at it.
Remember the indication of Random Lengths is just what these guys in Eugene thinks at any given point in time.
So the count of the market is not a lot of wood transacted either on the way up or in the way back down.
The next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious if you have a view at what housing starts level would be industry start to run out of capacity and if you have an updated view of how much it would cost to actually build the new OSB mill here in North America again? We just had the fourth economic advisory guys in to see as couple of weeks ago in our leadership meeting and they went through their housing scenario and they went through their panel demand.
And what they show that what's running -- what could run today that's been not announced is permanently curtailed about 25 billion square feet and they showed that if we could be out of capacity between 1.4 million to 1.5 million housing starts.
Replacement capacity today we believe is somewhere in the $300 per thousand range.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful Curt.
And I think you had mentioned in your prepared remarks about potentially upgrading some of the OSB capacity to make Siding product if I heard that correctly.
Can you just talk -- if you did say that can you talk about what the incremental cost to do that would be and what the target of returns on capital would be there? Well all of our current strand-based Siding plants are former OSB plants.
So the Hayward has got the 2 lines which is about 500 million square feet of capacity.
The others are somewhere in the 125 million range.
So what I said is as we look to be approaching the capacity of our current facilities that we're looking 3 different areas.
We're looking -- first area that we're looking is there something we can do similar to what we did at Two Harbors with the $6 million project where we're increasing the capabilities of the press but we're also adding capacity about 25% of capacity for that number.
So we're looking at other mills is there anything we can do similar to that to add capacity in the mills that we currently have.
The second thing we're doing if there's discussions between the OSB business and Siding business is there a mill that could get converted to Siding it currently is running at an OSB mill.
Now remember the way that would work is it would go into our Siding business but you wouldn't convert 100% of it.
It would still remain capable of running OSB like Hayward does.
So if you convert it let's call it Swan Valley as an example which is 450 million square foot mill.
If we converted that to Siding mill it may take 50 million the first year 100 million the next year 150 million the next year.
So gradually it will be converted to 100% Siding.
The incremental investment when we did Hayward was about $35 million to convert that facility to add the Siding capability.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful Curt.
Okay.
And just last question on fiber you had talked about not being concerns that there would be significant inflation there given the supply being good and the biomass demand not necessarily materializing.
But maybe just -- on the other hand to the extent that we have the lumber capacity coming back and more incremental woodchips are out there in the market place.
Is there some reasonable probability that you may see a decline in virgin fiber prices because of that? Being lower demand for pulp you mean? Research Division</strong> Well just lumber coming back and that driving incremental just woodchip availability because of that and as well as the paper grades being in secular decline and supply being pretty decent and biomass not materializing.
Is there a probability that you may see a step change lower in virgin fiber prices? I don't think you'll ever see a step change lower but it could be because I think you're right.
We compete directly with the pulp mill that's who we compete with fiber.
And if their demand is lower it ought to give us an advantage.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining today's conference call.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a very good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 Louisiana-Pacific Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Patrice and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Sallie Bailey Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please proceed.
Great.
Thank you very much Patrice and good afternoon and thank you for joining our conference call to discuss LP's financial results for the fourth quarter and the full year 2012.
I'm Sallie Bailey LP's Chief Financial Officer and with me today are Curt Stevens LP's Chief Executive Officer; as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley our primary Investor Relations contacts.
I'll begin with the review of the financial results for the fourth quarter and the full year 2012 and this will be followed by some comments on the performance of the individual segments and selected balance sheet items.
After I finish my comments Curt will discuss the general market environment in which LP has been operating provide his perspective on our operating results for 2012 and give some thoughts on our outlook for 2013.
As we've done in the past we've opened up this call to the public and are doing a webcast.
The webcast can be accessed at www.lpcorp.com.
Additionally to help with our discussion we have provided a presentation with supplemental information which should be reviewed in conjunction with the earnings comments.
Now it's my understanding that the -- our presentation was not put on our website earlier today but you should see it on the website either now or in the next 5 -- next few minutes because these are the slides as usual that I'll be referencing during my comments.
We've also filed an 8-K this morning and with some supplemental information and we'll file our annual Form 10-K at the end of the month.
I want to remind all the participants about the forward-looking statements comments that's on Slide 2 of our presentation and please also be aware of the discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial information which is provided on Slide 3 of the presentation.
The Appendix attached to the presentation has some of the necessary reconciliations that has been supplemented by the Form 8-K filing we made this morning.
Rather than reading these 2 statements I incorporate them with this reference.
Now before I get started on the detailed discussion of LP's financial results for the 2012 fourth quarter and full year I have some comments and observations about the housing recovery.
We started the year of 2012 with average housing starts at 692 000 and North Central 7/16 OSB average selling price of $189.
The December 2011 seasonally adjusted annual housing starts rate was $657 000.
We ended 2012 with 780 actual housing starts.
North Central 7/16 OSB average selling price of $331.
The December 2012 seasonally adjusted annual starts rate was $954 000.
The rate of improvement in the second half of 2012 was significant.
In September the annualized rate of housing starts increased 15% from the August housing starts to 872 000.
At the end of the third quarter the North Central 7/16 OSB average selling price was $303.
The housing recovery and consequently our financial results were much stronger at the end of 2012 than we anticipated even 3 months ago.
As the housing market has begun to recover so have our financial results.
2012 was the first year since 2006 that we recorded positive earnings per share and net cash flow from operations of over $100 million.
And with that let me go into the details.
Please refer to Slide 4 of the presentation for a discussion of the fourth quarter 2012 results compared to the third quarter of 2012 and the fourth quarter of 2011.
This slide also compares the full year 2012 with the 2011 result.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 we recorded net income of $76 million or $0.32 per diluted share.
Net sales from continuing operations were $459 million for the quarter.
The fourth quarter also included income of $20 million associated with the auction rate securities litigation settlement.
This income has been excluded from our non-GAAP results.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 we reported net loss of $57 million or $0.42 per diluted share on sales from continuing operations of $312 million.
The adjusted income from continuing operations for the quarter is $26 million or $0.18 per share compared to a loss of $29 million or $0.21 per share in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $71 million in the quarter compared to negative EBITDA of $12 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the full year we recorded sales of $1.7 billion a 26% improvement over the $1.4 billion of sales in 2011.
Earnings per share improved $1.56 from $1.36 loss per share in 2011 to earnings of $0.20 per share in 2012.
On a non-GAAP basis operating income for the year was $49 million or $0.35 per diluted share as compared to 2011 loss of $97 million or $0.73 per diluted share.
The company recorded $203 million of adjusted EBITDA an improvement of $208 million from 2011.
Turning to Slide 5 on the review of our business unit starting with OSB.
OSB recorded operating income of $58 million in the quarter compared to a loss of $16 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the quarter volume was 16% higher and average selling price increased 64%.
Adjusted EBITDA was higher by $73 million.
The improvement in pricing was the most significant contributor to improved OSB performance approximately $90 million.
As we discussed in last quarter's call our pricing will differ from Random Lengths' North Central 7/16 changes due to our different geographical footprint broader product offerings and value-added products.
In fact on a comparison just the third quarter of 2012 North Central 7/16 was up 7% and LP's OSB average selling price was up 10%.
The improved price of OSB has another impact on our earnings through the accounting for our 50% interest in the Peace Valley OSB mill.
As a reminder we purchased 100% of the production of Peace Valley at the market price less the commission.
We sell 100% of the product.
Both the sales and the cost of sales are included in our income statement.
Our OSB gross margins are negatively impacted when the cost for us to buy the product from Peace Valley is greater than the cost to produce the product.
LP's 50% interest in the earnings from the joint ventures recorded on our income statement in the equity and income or loss of unconsolidated affiliates.
This amount is also delineated in our reconciliation of EBITDA from continuing operations filed as part of our 8-K this morning.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 Peace Valley contributed $7.1 million to OSB adjusted -- OSB's adjusted EBITDA as compared to decrease in the fourth quarter 2011 OSB adjusted EBITDA by $900 000.
For the year OSB had operating income of $124 million compared to a loss of $64 million in 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA for the comparable period was $166 million in 2012 compared to negative EBITDA of $80 million in 2011.
The impact of pricing between the years was $201 million and accounted for the majority of the change.
The remaining difference is due to higher raw material costs.
Now please turn to Slide 6 which reports the results of our Siding business.
This segment includes our SmartSide and CanExel siding products and commodity OSB produced in our Hayward mill.
For the fourth quarter Siding recorded sales of $117 million with operating income of $11 million which was $5 million higher than the results for the same quarter last year.
The improvement in operating results is due to stronger volumes in SmartSide of 19% and CanExel of 27%.
OSB pricing contributed $5 million.
Offsetting the improvements in volume and pricing were higher raw material cost for resins and overlays and additional sales and marketing expenses.
For the year Siding recorded sales of $0.5 billion and had operating income of $67 million compared to sales of $430 million and operating income of $42 million in 2011.
Volume increased in our SmartSide Siding line due to continued penetration in several key focus markets including repair and remodel markets and sheds.
Adjusted EBITDA was $83 million in 2012 a $25 million improvement from 2011.
The improvement in full year results is related to the success of our segment strategy and increased penetration of our SmartSide strand product.
Repair and remodel as well as shed continue to be strong growth segments for us on a percentage basis while single-family new construction and retail do-it-yourself provides solid volume improvements.
OSB price contributed $11 million to the improvement in 2012's results.
The Engineered Wood Products business results are on Slide 7.
This segment includes I-Joist Laminated Strand Lumber produced at our Houlton Maine facility Laminated Veneer Lumber plus other related products.
This segment also includes the sale of I-Joist and LVL products produced by the Abitibi joint venture or under a sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood.
For the fourth quarter EWP recorded a loss of $4.6 million compared to a loss of $3.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was a loss of $1.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to a loss of $1 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Volumes of I-Joist were up 2% related to higher housing starts while volumes of LVL and LSL were up 14% compared to the same quarter last year primarily due to increases in LSL sales.
Pricing was up 5% in I-Joist and down 1% in LVL/LSL reflecting changes in mix in both product lines.
Industrial product pricing remained relatively stable.
For the year EWP recorded an operating loss of $40 million compared to a loss of $60 million in 2011.
The negative adjusted EBITDA of $2 million was comparable to the 2011 results.
For the year sales are up 5% and adjusted EBITDA is flat.
Sales volume in I-Joist is up 11% and volume for LSL and LVL is up 4%.
Slide 8 of the presentation is a summary of South America.
This was a record quarter and record year for our South American operations.
For the fourth quarter the South American segment recorded operating income of $7 million compared to operating income of $2 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $10 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to $4 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Volumes in Chile were up 13% over the same quarter last year and up 14% in Brazil as we continued to penetrate local markets.
Sales prices were up 18% in Chile and down 4% in Brazil.
But in local currency both Chile and Brazil record 11% improvements in pricing.
For the year South America had operating income of $18 million compared to $12 million in 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA was income of $30 million in 2012 compared to $23 million in 2011.
Sales volumes in both countries increased significantly 19% in Chile and 12% in Brazil.
Pricing in local currency also improved in both countries.
In Chile pricing was 10% better in 2012 versus 2011 and in Brazil pricing improved 9% versus 2011.
While there is no slide for our other building products segment the results are shown in the selected segment information filed as part of our 8-K and I will make a few comments.
These results primarily reflect our Molding business the U.S.
green fiber cellulose insulation business and closed facilities.
Overall we are showing a loss of $1 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 as compared to a loss of $7 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The loss in the fourth quarter of 2011 included a $5.7 million loss due to a goodwill impairment charge at GreenFiber.
For the year other building products recorded an operating loss of $5.7 million compared to a loss of $12.5 million in the same period of 2011.
The improvement is primarily due to the fourth quarter 2011 impairment charge as well as reduced operating expenses at our non-operating sites.
Unallocated corporate expenses were $22 million for the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to $17 million in the comparable quarter of 2011.
This increase is due to higher incentive compensation accruals and higher legal expenses associated with the auction rate security litigation which ended in settlement.
For the full year unallocated corporate expenses were higher at $79 million as compared to $66 million in 2011.
The majority of the increase is due to the management incentive accruals and the higher legal expenses.
Key balance sheet statistics shown on Slide 9 showed the continued strength of our balance sheet.
Cash cash equivalents investments and restricted cash of $575 million; working capital of $756 million; net cash of $175 million.
In addition to the $560 million of cash on our balance sheet we have approximately $100 million of liquidity on our asset-based loan facility.
Capital expenditures for the 12 months were $31 million as compared to $21 million in 2011.
We generated $63 million of operating cash flow in the quarter and $112 million of operating cash flow for the full year.
This is the first year since 2006 we've generated net cash from operations in excess of $100 million.
And in 2006 we produced 6 billion square feet of OSB and housing starts were 1.9 million.
Now a couple of comments about 2013 before I turn the call over to Curt.
Beginning with raw materials.
We are forecasting a negative price variance on raw materials for the first quarter of 2013 of $6 million.
About 1/3 of that relates to higher fiber costs primarily in the U.S.
The remaining 2/3 is due to primarily the higher resin and wax costs related to higher market pricing for benzene which is the primary raw material utilized in the production of MDI and the primary feedstock for phenol.
Benzene is currently selling at record high prices.
Reflecting the improved state of our balance sheet and increased optimism regarding the housing recovery we are continuing our investment in growth and our investment in our current operations.
Curt will address the acquisition the remaining 50% interest in our Peace Valley joint venture in his comments.
We're also increasing our investment in our mills.
Our mills need between $1 million and $2 million of capital annually for maintenance.
In the past few years we've been spending on the low end of that range.
In 2013 we intend -- we anticipate spending at the higher end of the range or about $50 million in capital expenditures for our mills.
We are also planning to increase capacity at our Two Harbors siding mill in Chile and there will be some capital costs associated with the startup of our Clarke County OSB mill.
These actions may increase our capital expenditures by another $10 million in 2013.
And we are also beginning a much-needed upgrade of our information technology systems.
We haven't invested much in our systems in the last 12 years and we need to upgrade the data technology.
We estimate that the total cash cost of the systems upgrade will be about $30 million.
Approximately half of that spending is considered capital and the remainder is characterized as expense.
In 2012 we recorded $1 million of expense and $5 million of capital associated with our systems upgrade.
We anticipate spending $20 million in 2013 split evenly between capital expense and the remainder will be spent in 2014 and we anticipate that the 2014 cost will all be characterized as expense.
Now I'll turn the call over to Curt for his comments.
Thank you for the review Sallie.
I would like to make a few comments on our performance in 2012 talk about the encouraging news that we're seeing related to the housing market and give you some of my thoughts on 2013.
First the 2012 performance.
Our safety performance in 2012 was very good.
For the year we ended at a total incident rate of 0.46 which is our second best incident rate ever.
Our OSB business continued the remarkable performance I've talked about last quarter and ended the year with a single reportable injury will put them at a total incident rate of 0.08 an incredible performance.
I also want to mention our environmental performance in 2012 where LP did not have a single notice of violation for any type of environmental excursion.
This is particularly impressive as the degree of oversight from governmental agencies has increased dramatically and there is a lower bar for reported violations.
Credit for this all goes to our mill management teams as they focus on environmental stewardship and the communities where we do our business.
In addition to the safety and environmental performance that Sallie just reviewed we had a pretty good year as housing starts improved by a little more than 25% compared to last year.
As a reminder even with this improvement housing starts in 2012 were about 1/2 the level of the actual average seen over the last 53 years.
It is improved but depressed market LP did set sales volume records in a number of product lines.
This includes our topnotch foreign product our TechShield radiant barrier panels used for roof decking our SmartSide strand based siding Laminated Strand Lumber and our fire-rated and OSB product FlameBlock.
We just ask you to imagine where we'll be selling when the housing market returns to more normal levels.
As Sallie just reviewed overall sales increased by 26% we earned $0.20 per diluted share and that's even after offsetting $53 million of early debt extinguishment costs and we had over $200 million in adjusted EBITDA.
OSB prices rebounded nicely due to increased demand.
With solid growth in our Siding business we had our best year ever in South America.
Closer to home this did allow LP to pay management incentive bonuses at 2012 while we paid nothing for our 2011 performance.
We ended the year very well positioned to take advantage of further improvements in the housing market.
Strong balance sheet includes $575 million of cash and investments clear plans and projects in place to address potential supply chain issues including bringing online idled capacity.
We ended the year with appropriate finished goods and raw materials inventories to accommodate this growth.
And in the fourth quarter we did agree to acquire the 50% interest in Peace Valley currently owned Canfor.
We believe this will be completed in the second quarter as we work through various regulatory processes.
On the housing market there is lots of continuing good news being reported throughout the housing market.
The December annual housing start rate was at 954 000 37% higher than December of last year.
Single-family starts at 616 000 and multifamily at 338 000.
The December annual rate per permit kept pace with over 900 000.
One of the statistics we look at is the 3-month rolling average for single-family permits and that has been on an upward trend since April of 2011.
The current consensus for housing forecast stands at about 990 000 for 2013 and right at 1.2 million for 2014.
New home inventory remains very very low at about 125 000 and that includes both homes of -- completed homes for sale and homes under construction.
And then existing home inventory is down 23% compared to the same time last year.
And home prices are on the rise and mortgage rates are low so I'm confident that the momentum that we have seen recently in housing starts will continue as pent-up demand is very large and parents do want to see their adult children moving out of the basement.
So our outlook for 2013 is for higher housing starts given that the consensus forecast is at almost 1 million.
While I firmly believe there will be demand at this higher level we will take a more conservative tack as we plan our business operations.
There are several factors that could slow the positive momentum that include: the turmoil in Washington D.C.
related to the fiscal cliff; the debt ceilings; the sequestration; spending authorization to keep the government working; and budgets.
All this had a negative impact on job growth and GDP with Q4 coming in slightly negative and consumer confidence.
The general availability of credits throughout the channel remains of some concern and that's everything from land acquisition to land development to mortgage availability for purchasers.
Builders have been raising the issue of lots of shortages and the high cost of the land and are also raising concerns about the length of time to gain approval for new development and it has been stretched due to the reduction in municipal funding for infrastructure.
Builders and suppliers are complaining about the shortage of labor both skilled and unskilled.
And then builders because of this are rightfully concerned about there being an adequate supply of building materials to support this higher housing forecast.
As individuals members of trade associations and the businesses we need to encourage our governmental representatives to take the appropriate actions on the depth at spending levels in tax policy which I believe will raise consumer confidence and create job growth.
Sallie and I had the opportunity recently to attend the International Builder's Show in Las Vegas.
Attendance was 35% to 40% higher than it was last year.
And importantly most of the attendees were smiling because they do believe the recovery's getting stronger.
In the customer and builder meetings I attended at the show the topics I just mentioned were universal.
Market dynamics are very good but there could be some bumps along the road.
My conclusion is that 1 million housing starts in 2013 is certainly possible.
There will be substantial improvement but again the prudent course of action is to be ready for a slightly lower number and have plans in place to be prepared to take advantage of a better environment.
I do believe that 23 -- 2013 should be a very good year for LP and the building industry.
With that let me turn it back to Sallie for questions and answers.
Great.
Thank you Curt.
Patrice if we could we'd like to open this up for questions and go to the queue.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
First do you see a scenario in 2013 where Engineered Wood Products turns an operating profit? And second question you talked about investing in growth and you've laid that out for us are acquisitions starting be on your mind to start to reshape the portfolio? Well let me take the Engineered Wood question first.
I certainly would like to see Engineered Wood return to growth.
What we experienced in the second half of the year were increased pricing and raw materials principally OSB and lumber and we just haven't been able to pass on those increases to the customers given the excess supply.
We remain committed to raising our pricing to get an adequate return on that but again in the competitive environment that we're in that has proven to be a little bit difficult.
We are going to continue those efforts to raise pricing in the coming months so that's the direction we're going there.
Your second question was...
Acquisitions.
On acquisitions.
It's always been a part of our strategy to review acquisitions.
That will continue to be part of the strategy.
With the recovery of that we've seen in those companies that are in businesses that we participate in they have risen in about the same level we have.
So unless you could do some kind of combination on a trade basis I'm not sure that that's going to be something that's going to be high on our priority list for the next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Roxland with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions.
In OSB it seems like your costs have increased is that more reflective of rising input cost as you mentioned Sallie in terms of your outlook or is that more related to what was -- or to the Peace Valley JV? The answer to that Mike is yes.
So it's related to -- if we look third quarter to fourth quarter it is clearly related to the increased costs coming out of Peace Valley.
But even if we take Peace Valley out we did see our costs in -- cost per unit in OSB go up and that's because some of our raw material costs have gone up but also because we took some -- as we typically do we took downtime in the fourth quarter so we had to cover the overhead.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And how much did your costs go up if you look at like law costs [ph] or resin costs in 4Q? In the fourth quarter -- Mike you want to look Q3 to Q4? Research Division</strong> If you have both Q3 Q4 and also year-on-year.
Okay.
So year-on-year they're up probably about $6 million and most of that -- about much of that would be wood and of course much of that would be in our OSB business.
And then Q3 to Q4 it's up only about $2 million but again most of that would be in the OSB business.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Last question can you talk about the progress you're making in restarting Clarke County? You mentioned Curt in your comments as well that labor availability could cause a constraint particularly from the -- or concern for the builders.
Yes what have you seen thus far as you try to ramp Clarke County and also the additional line I think you mentioned in Peace Valley? Well I was down in Clarke County last week to participate in the readiness review and I'd say we are on track for a Q2 startup as we've discussed.
From a labor standpoint we actually were a little bit positively surprised.
For the people that we've hired since we made that decision about 30% of them worked at that at the Clarke County mill in the past and actually 70% of the people that we hired worked for LP somewhere in the past.
So it's encouraging that we were able to bring back some employees who had worked for LP understand our culture and have at least a passing knowledge of wood products and OSB.
In Peace Valley the hiring we're doing there is for the 4th shift and we've been successful in making those hires.
Now we constantly get pinged by the oil sands people for our technical people but that's something we've been dealing with for the last 4 5 years.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just lastly aside from labor have there been any unexpected surprises with respect to getting those mills up and running? No I don't think so.
I think it's pretty much on track.
I think that probably the one that we're keeping our eye on --  the closest that we have are on that mill for 4 years and so any software updates need to be -- make sure that we've got that fully vetted before we go to startup but other than that I don't think there's any issues.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the Siding business Sallie? If I heard you right you said the OSB price was about $5 million so essentially all of the year-on-year recovery in the segment is that correct? For the -- yes that is correct.
Research Division</strong> And if memory serves last year you had a pretty tough quarter because of customer inventory de-stocking in the core Siding business can you talk a little bit about what happened this year? Sure.
That's -- what you're referring to Gail is in our CanExel business was where the inventory de-stocking occurred.
And as you'll know over each quarter we talked about CanExel and we indicated that we thought the volumes by the end of the year would be pretty much the same year-over-year.
And in fact they are.
The volumes for CanExel are just 2% below in 2012 below where they were relative to last year.
But the pricing in that business quarter-over-quarter it's 12% higher and 1% higher for the whole of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Was there a problem in the underlying Siding business if you were still kind of reporting -- I mean was it just cost if you were still reporting kind of flat underlying operations year-on-year? Well I think there are a couple of things.
The first is that in this quarter we did see some raw material cost increases.
We also are continuing to invest in that business in terms of sales and marketing and we're investing in that business ahead of when we're getting the sales.
So I don't -- I'm not -- to answer your question slightly differently I am not concerned about where this business is going in '13.
And the way I thought about it is I actually looked at the full year numbers and on a full year basis we saw a $14 million improvement in the EBITDA.
It's solely related to Siding excluding the $11 million for OSB.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Curt you mentioned kind of being cautious but planning to take advantage of the environments better than what you're planning can you give us a little sense of what you might be able to flex if we do see that 1 million start level? When we get to 1 million starts there hasn't been enough to announce capacity increases in OSB to meet that.
And so if we do see approaching 1 million starts I think as I said last time that we would consider bringing on our Dawson Creek facility for the West Coast but that will be the flex.
So what we are trying -- we're planning on is between 850 000 and 900 000.
So we're short of where the market is and that's what we're gearing the operations to.
And if you look at what's been announced that's about what the industry could support.
So if it's greater than that we need to make some flexing on the upside.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And could you talk a little bit about what exports did I guess in the last part of last year and how you see what -- how you see that trending in 2013? Well we -- our exports to the East went down dramatically because they haven't been willing to pay a market price.
Now we have seen some increase in pricing on our exports to Eastern Europe and we did ship a little product in there in October November backed off in December.
So we're using that as flex capacity.
So we -- that's another thing that we can do is that we see that increased demand in the U.S.
we'll pull back on exports.
Research Division</strong> And can you give a sense of what percentage of production that was last year? Probably less than 5%.
About 2%.
Maybe 2% to 3% so it's not a big number.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> First question is on the full year CapEx for '13.
I know you went through a number of projects Sallie what was the total sort of budget that we should expect? About $70 million $75 million.
LLC</strong> Okay which I think is unchanged from the last call.
And then...
Chip just to be clear that doesn't include the acquisition of the Peace Valley interest.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And then the second question is Sallie you mentioned something about the price cost spread in the quarter being negative 6.
And obviously the resin costs are up a lot.
As I -- at least as I look at it and I don't know if that was a -- I'm assuming that's a sequential number.
Yes.
LLC</strong> It looks like prices are like $60 $70 a ton depending on region above the fourth quarter average.
And certainly I think your total costs of making this stuff is maybe 1.5x that different so maybe you could help us understand what you meant by that.
I think what Sallie meant I'll just answer for her.
Yes I know.
I think that you...
What she was talking about was just the cost of raw materials so using the same volumes in Q4 compared to the same volumes last year just looking at the price differential.
So cost of raw materials were up $6 million.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then in the first quarter there I think you were saying -- so what we should expect is that on the equal volume basis with the first quarter '12 or that we should see a $6 million change in the first quarter is that what you meant to say? Or what I should have heard I'm sorry.
Yes thank you.
I'm not -- I don't know either but I'm glad you asked the question so that we could see -- so we could clarify it.
Yes this -- it's a -- this is a tier price variance.
So if the volume goes up the impact obviously on the pricing will be higher.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And I think as we do our models obviously we need to also build in there somehow over the course of the year an incremental $9 million for the IT expense portion and then you start to see that as a tailwind in 2014 and '15.
Yes.
And so it's our intention that the $10 million for the systems upgrade will show up in corporate unallocated.
So you have lots of visibility on that.
And then of course will also show up in the CapEx number.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And then one last one.
When you look at the -- I mean certainly versus what we were expecting the revenue number was fantastic and yet not all of it of course came to the bottom line.
And I was wondering we saw this and Curt will remember this back in '03 for example I don't know if you call them LIFO true-ups or what but was there any of that that you can talk about like for example when you transfer OSB from OSB to Siding that might have held back the profit per unit or maybe raised it because you have these inventory adjustments? Yes the only thing that we had in Q4 is if we have product that's in transit we don't recognize that as revenue in the quarter.
So some of that -- so we had more product in transit in Q4 than we had anticipated for.
From our internal planning we'll pick that up in Q1.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just sort of as we think about our models when you -- I assume you do sell some OSB from OSB to Siding you might correct that because I know you make some in Siding as well would it not be the practice at the end of the quarter to mark the OSB that has been shipped to the Siding at market? And therefore since you haven't sold it on the outside you have to -- that's actually a charge if the price is going up? Yes.
No we -- Chip we know...
No.
The Siding makes all their own OSB that's used in the Siding products.
LLC</strong> Okay so it's really in transit as you -- all right.
The only thing -- let me just clarify -- the only thing that would get re-categorized is the inventory that we would buy from Peace Valley that's sitting in the inventory but that's...
Yes but I -- we didn't have any sort of unusual accounting items like your inventory revaluations have impacted the numbers.
I mean I think what you're saying is the impact of higher raw material costs and some downtime that -- in our OSB business that caused the result.
LLC</strong> And therefore as we look at the first couple of -- really so first quarter you're probably not going to be taking as much down time? Well our third quarter OSB numbers without Peace Valley were -- cost per unit were below -- pretty below -- were well below the -- 10% below the fourth quarter numbers.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Joe Stivaletti of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering on Peace Valley what were -- it sounds like you've had some delay in closing that I just wondered if you could shed a little light on that.
Yes.
From a regulatory standpoint competition in Canada we're through that.
What we have in Peace Valley is that we share a pulpwood agreement between Canfor and LP.
And just to be clean both of us thought it was a good idea to segregate that.
So we have 2 agreements one that Canfor manages and one that LP manages.
And there's a consultation process that's at least 60 days to go through with first nations and others.
So that's really the delay.
It's nothing more than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so on the topic of sort of restarting capacity it sounds like your view is that the industry is currently set up to deal with 850 000 to 900 000 starts this year based on what everybody's announced that they're reopening and that obviously could end up being a little bit below or is a little bit below where some of the forecasts are.
Is that sort of what I Curt heard you saying? That's what I've said.
What's been announced today and when the timing of when that capacity comes on and how it ramps up that it's the 850 000 to 900 000 that can be supported.
Now that's not to say something further won't happen and you heard me say that we're close to $1 million that we might think about bringing Dawson on to the West Coast.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So Clark is going to come on in the second quarter I think you said.
And when would you -- what are your -- what's your decision process like on Dawson Creek? I mean what do you need to see to get comfortable with bringing that online? And how long would that take? Well what we need to see is we need to see that the forecasts are right that we're actually seeing housing starts at the level of the 950 000 to 1 million.
From a -- to bring it on is we relatively fast force to bring it on a single shift basis since we already have employees there that are actually manufacturing TechShield there.
So we take the blanks from Peace Valley ship it into Dawson Creek and we add the TechShield foil to it.
So we have a crew there we have a plant manager we've got environmental managers.
So we've got the base level there.
So to start a one-ship operation I don't think it'd take us more than about 2 months from the time we make a decision.
Now again that's a one-shift operation so that's not running full out.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And your other facilities that you're  -- the other OSB mills that you're operating away from Peace Valley are they all operating full out or is there any ability to add more shifts? Or...
There's some -- the only ability we have to add capacity is in Canada.
And there we do have a freight penalty that we're dealing with.
But again if demand is strong the pricing is reasonable then we can bring more wood out of Maniwaki.
And as I said Maniwaki has been kind of our export mill that we've cut back on the export and provide that wood domestically.
And then Swan Valley's got a little bit left per capacity to in Manitoba.
Research Division</strong> So all the U.S.
mills are operating full out? They are.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just Curt first I just want to -- I'm trying to check the numbers here I think in the past you said that 100 000 starts is equivalent to roughly 1 billion square feet of OSB demand.
Is that right? Yes I think what FDA would say is about 1.1 billion.
But yes roughly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just kind of checking what I think I know about restarts at this point you guys have announced Clarke County you've got an extra line up in B.C.
that I think an Atlanta-based producer's starting up a new mill.
I think there's a mill that's being restarted in Texas there's a mill that's been restarted up in New Brunswick a small mill.
And then I think Ainsworth has announced that they're moving ahead up in Alberta.
Is that consistent with what your knowledge of what's going on on the supply side? I haven't seen an announcement from Ainsworth but the others I have seen announcements on yes.
Research Division</strong> I think it's on their presentations right now.
So I think that's about 860 000 square feet or thereabouts.
A couple of other -- just questions on capacity.
There was a lot of plywood that came out in 2010 2011.
Have you guys seen anything that would suggest any of that plywood capacity would be coming back into the market? I haven't seen any of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then the last question I had Curt just Latin America because you're really -- you put nice margins down there particularly in the fourth quarter.
I'm just wondering whether you're getting some benefit down there right now from the sort of ripples of the market getting better up here? Because my sense was that when the market was weak here you might have had some people pushing product into the Latin American market and that might have the depressed the market in South America and so that maybe some of the benefit right now is just sort of a second derivative off of the U.S.
pickup? I think that's right.
There is less imports coming into South America than there were before.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Questions on just inventory levels in the OSB side in the channels what are you seeing out there right now? What we're seeing is that there's very little inventory and that's for a couple of reasons.
One as I talked about credits being -- throughout the land acquisition all the way to the mortgage the dealer and the distributor network is really strained on their ability to borrow money put inventory on the ground.
And so they have lean inventories.
I just gave you an example we saw OSB price come off a couple of weeks ago when we had bad weather.
And the reason we saw that is because its going straight through to the building side because there's not much inventory there.
When we talk to the distribution channel at the IBS that was a major question is -- they want us to be their bank and we don't want to be their bank.
They're going to have to figure out how to get more financing.
So I don't think there's very much in the channel.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then in terms of just capital allocation with cash and cash like at $575 million.
Historically you'd have a dividend in place is that a topic that the board is bringing up more? Or how are you looking at returning cash to shareholders going forward? Well Paul when we look at the $560 million of cash we have on the balance sheet we think about a couple of things.
We're thinking about our -- the balance that we refinanced those have a 2016 call in them.
So we'd like to continue to build cash so that we can have options there that's about $363 million.
And then we have our timber notes that are coming due over the course of the next 5 years and we'll have taxes to pay on those.
And that equates to about $153 million and of course we still have to pay for the Peace Valley acquisition.
So at this point we're really focused on seeing the cash generation for -- towards those ends.
But clearly we'll continue to think about other ways to return capital to shareholders.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
First just on Dawson Creek how much can it produce on a single shift? Probably 80 million feet? 80 million? So not that much? About 100 million.
100 million okay.
And then how long would it potentially take you to start up -- are there 2 or potentially 3 shifts there? Four.
So what could the potential ramp be if you do see housing playing out favorably? Probably 4 months to onboard to find the people and onboard them.
Okay.
And that can -- on OSB prices I mean you've talked a lot about mix and also I think sometimes lags can have an impact.
I don't know if there was any of that going on maybe that should -- it can help you a little bit in the fourth quarter.
But maybe if we think about where things are today can you give us a sense of when you take into account the geographic mix and the lags where your price realizations today might be relative to where they averaged in the fourth quarter? I'm reluctant to do that.
I certainly will announce those results in April.
But.
.
.
It's sort of hard to do looking forward because we still have 2 more months to go in the quarter.
Who knows what's going to happen to the Random Lengths' pricing among the various regions and where our demand's going to show? Sure okay.
I was just trying to see where they were though on average today but that's okay.
And then finally on Engineered Wood can you give me a sense perhaps of what our realistic target operating margins over the course of the cycle for that business in your view? Well what we have seen historically is that the margins have been in that low teen kind of level.
So I think that's what you can expect on a go-forward basis.
Now we might get slightly higher margins in our LSL product as we continue to make penetration there against LVL.
From a return on capital employed because don't have a lot of value in there it's pretty high.
It's in the mid-20s to high 20s.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I too wanted to ask I guess questions that Mark and Mark touched on Engineered Wood.
First of all a couple of the larger players have explicitly announced price hikes for March 1.
So hopefully they're going to go from being a problem to being rational.
Are you going to follow suit there? For the last 3 we've led Steve.
Research Division</strong> So is that right? And what you said they were competitive so I guess that speaks to their behavior.
And when OSB prices come back to earth you said mid-teens operating margin so would that generate cost of capital returns for you? For the Engineered Wood business? Research Division</strong> Yes.
About.
A little bit north of that.
And then return on capital it's much higher than that.
Research Division</strong> And you didn't exactly take the bait on when OSB prices come back to earth.
But do you think that there's...
Here's an interesting perspective.
Having going to 1 million housing starts from where we were in 2012 first of all I don't think you can get there because of what's been announced from a capacity standpoint but as these facilities come back online it's -- they don't come back online at 100% they come up incrementally.
And so if we can have incremental growth for the next 4 years it's going to match the way capacity comes back online and keep those operating ratios at pretty high level.
Research Division</strong> So you think we're going to have elevated prices but that would -- that's not the same as saying as this is the new normal $300-plus OSB.
I can't tell you what the new normal is.
We set the price everyday in our transaction with our customers.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So if you factor in the startup of the Alabama mill what do you see as the upper balance to your production of OSB in 2013? The upward balance? Research Division</strong> Yes.
About 4 -- between 4.4 billion and 4.5 billion square feet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the EWP business how do you think about the sensitivity of volume in that business relative to new housing starts? Well the impact on our OSB business frankly is all pricing.
Research Division</strong> No no.
On the Engineered Wood Products business how do you think about the sensitivity of volume there relative to housing starts? I'm not sure we could say how much volume per housing start? Research Division</strong> No no no.
In terms of if housing starts are up 25% what's the right way to think about what your Engineered Wood Products volume should change by in that scenario? Well the difference in Engineered Wood and our other businesses is heavy raw materials costs.
So pricing is really what gives you the leverage it's not necessarily volume.
Manufacturing costs at an I-Joist plant are less than 5% of the overall costs it's really raw material.
Okay great.
Well thank you all very much.
Patrice that's all the time we have for questions.
So if you could please provide the replay number that would be great.
And I'd like to thank everybody for participating on our call today.
And as always Mike and Becky are here to answer any follow-up questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2013 Louisiana-Pacific Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Erica and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Sallie Bailey Executive Vice President and Financial Officer.
Please proceed.
Great.
Thank you Erica and good morning.
Thank you for joining our conference call to discuss LP's financial results for the first quarter of 2013.
I am Sallie Bailey LP's Chief Financial Officer and with me today are Curt Stevens LP's Chief Executive Officer; as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley our primary Investor Relations contact.
I'll begin the discussion with a review of the financial results for the first quarter of 2013.
This will be followed by some comments on the performance of the individual segments and selected balance sheet items.
After I finish my comments Curt will discuss the general market environment in which LP has been operating provide his perspective on our operating results for the first quarter of 2013 and give some thoughts on the outlook for 2013.
As we have done in the past we have opened up this call to the public and are doing a webcast.
The webcast can be accessed at www.lpcorp.com.
Additionally to help with the discussion we've provided a presentation with supplemental information that should be reviewed in conjunction with the earnings release.
I'll be referencing these slides in my comments this morning.
We've also filed an 8-K this morning with some supplemental information and we have filed our 10-Q.
I want to remind all the participants about the forward-looking comment on Slide 2 of the presentation.
Please also be aware of the discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial information included on Slide 3 of the presentation.
The Appendix attached to the presentation has some of the necessary reconciliations that have been supplemented by the Form 8-K filing we made this morning.
Rather than reading these 2 statements I incorporate them into this earnings call by reference.
The first quarter of 2013 is LP's best quarter since 2006.
On sales of $538 million we generated net income of $65 million and a net income margin of 12%.
We also had healthy cash flow from operations.
We generated $17 million of cash from operations in the first quarter which compared to a use of $64 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The last time we generated cash from operations in the first quarter was 2006.
This is our third quarter of positive GAAP earnings per share and reflective of the recovery of the housing market as well as our focus on maintaining cost discipline.
With that let me go into the details.
Please refer to Slide 4 of the presentation for a discussion of the first quarter 2013 results compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2012.
We reported net sales of $538 million for the first quarter of 2013 a 49% increase from the net sales reported for the first quarter of 2012.
In the first quarter of 2013 we recorded net income of $65 million or $0.45 per diluted share.
In the first quarter of 2012 we reported a net loss of $11 million or $0.08 per diluted share of $362 million of net sales.
The adjusted income from continuing operations for the quarter was $59 million or $0.41 per share compared to an adjusted loss of $9 million or $0.06 per share in the first quarter of 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $121 million in the quarter compared to $21 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Moving to Slide 5 and a review of our business unit results starting with OSB.
OSB recorded operating income of $98 million in the quarter compared to breakeven in the first quarter of 2012.
For the quarter we reported adjusted EBITDA of $109 million as compared to $11 million in the first quarter of 2012.
For the quarter we have 12% increase in volume and our average sales price was 82% higher.
Sales volumes increased due to increased housing starts.
We also increased the percentage of value-added sales and industrial sales from the quarter.
But I do want to note that in our typical seasonality we sold about 60 million feet less than we produced in the first quarter and we sold about 50 million feet more than we produced in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The increase in selling price favorably impacted operating results and adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations by approximately $124 million for the quarter as compared to the corresponding period in 2012.
Offsetting this increase was a higher cost associated with our purchases from our Peace Valley joint venture a joint venture sold to us at market price.
Adjusting for the Peace Valley purchases our increase in sales price resulted in $113 million increase in our adjusted EBITDA and operating income.
Also offsetting the favorable impact of improved volume and pricing were costs associated with bringing Clarke County back online and higher raw material costs.
Moving onto Slide 6 which reports the results of our Siding business.
This segment includes our SmartSide and CanExel siding products and commodity OSB produced in our Hayward mill.
The Siding segment reported net sales of $134 million in the first quarter of 2013 an increase of 18% from $113 million reported in the first quarter of 2012.
The Siding segment reported operating income of $21 million compared to $17 million in the first quarter of 2012 and adjusted EBITDA of $25 million an increase of $4 million compared to the first quarter of 2012.
For the quarter SmartSide average sales prices were up 1% and volumes increased 21%.
Volumes increased in our SmartSide siding line due to increased housing starts and continued penetrations in several key focus markets including retail repair and remodel markets and sheds.
Additionally increased volume was driven by customers buying ahead of announced price increase which went into effect on April 1.
CanExel prices showed a decrease of 1% and volume was down 14%.
Sales volumes decline in our CanExel siding lines due to the severe winter weather experienced in Québec in Eastern Canada during the quarter.
Please turn to Slide 7 of the presentation which shows the results of our Engineered Wood Products segment.
This segment includes I-Joist Laminated Strand Lumber Laminated Veneer Lumber and other related products.
This segment also includes the sale of I-Joist and LVL products produced by the Abitibi joint venture or under our sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood.
The Engineered Wood product segment's operating loss increased slightly in the first quarter of 2013 from the first quarter of 2012.
For the first quarter of 2013 EWP adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was similar to the first quarter of 2012 at about breakeven.
Volumes of I-Joist were up 35% while volumes of LVL and LSL were up 13% compared to the same quarter last year primarily due to increases in domestic demand.
I-Joist LVL and LSL sales are closely correlated with U.S.
housing starts.
Pricing was up 5% in I-Joist and essentially flat in LVL and LSL due to changes in mix in both product lines with individual product pricing remaining relatively flat.
The 5% price increase for I-Joist was not nearly enough to offset the dramatic increase in raw materials OSB and lumber.
Moving now onto Slide 8 of the presentation.
For the quarter South American operating income increased to $6 million compared to operating income of $3 million in the first quarter of 2012.
For the first quarter South America's adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $9 million as compared to $6 million reported for the first part of 2012.
Volumes in Chile and Brazil were essentially flat as compared to the same quarter last year.
Pricing was up 7% in Chile and up 3% in Brazil.
In local currency pricing in Chile increased 3% and then increased 16% in Brazil.
These changes in pricing are related to product mix as well as price increases in several product lines.
While there's no slide for our other building products group -- segment let me make a few comments.
These results are from our Molding business U.S.
Green Fiber joint venture and various other non-operating facilities.
Overall we are showing a loss of $1 million in the first quarter of 2013 which is comparable to the first quarter of 2012.
For the quarter sales were $9 million which is slightly below the first quarter of 2012.
Total selling general and administrative expenses were $35 million in the first quarter of 2013 as compared to $31 million in the same quarter of 2012.
The increase in SG&amp;A expense is primarily due to the expense associated with our systems upgrade project as well as higher marketing expenses.
General corporate and other expenses net were $23 million for the first quarter of 2013 compared to $20 million in the first quarter of 2012.
This increase is primarily due to our systems upgrade project.
We have a $700 000 foreign exchange loss in the quarter compared to $100 000 loss in the same quarter last year.
Net interest expense was $7 million in the quarter compared to $8 million in the first quarter of 2012.
This reduction is primarily related to the refinancing of our public debt last May.
Moving on to Slide 9 of the presentation.
At the end of the first quarter of 2013 we had cash cash equivalents investments and restricted cash of $574 million working capital of $889 million net cash of $175 million.
Capital expenditures for the 3 months were $13 million and receipt from our joint ventures were $7 million.
As we discussed during last quarter's conference call we are planning to spend approximately $70 million to $75 million for capital expenditures in 2013.
The acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in our Peace Valley joint venture will also use approximately $75 million in cash.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Curt for his comments.
Thanks for that review Sallie.
I'd like to make a few comments on our performance this last quarter give you an update on the actions that we are taking to respond to the improved housing market and provide some comments on what I see for the rest of the year.
Before I do that let me just talk about our safety performance in the first quarter.
We had very good performance with a rolling total incident rate of 0.45.
The EPA recently reported their safety awards for 2012 and LP had a virtual sweep including the safest company in our industry.
However on a sadder note we were tragically reminded late last month that we can never let upon our safety focus.
In our Ponta Grossa Brazil mill we were at nearly 1 million safe hours almost 4 years when one of our employees was fatally injured when he failed to lock out the machine he was working on.
A very sad occurrence for all of us at LP and a reminder that when it comes to safety we must remain vigilant.
As Sallie reflected in her comments we had a very good first quarter as housing starts continued to improve leading to higher demand for all of our products which translated into solid financial results.
The current estimates for housing starts for 2013 are 1 million.
In fact we achieved this rate in March of this year and then for next year at 1.3 million.
This is still quite a bit short of the 50-year average of 1.5 million starts but certainly an improvement over the last 6 years.
As Sallie just reviewed overall sales increased by almost 50%.
We earned $0.45 per diluted share and had over $120 million in adjusted EBITDA.
Higher OSB prices record shipments of our SmartSide strand products and another strong quarter in South America contributed to this improved performance.
Let me update you on the status of our efforts to support this improving housing market with additional volumes.
In OSB as we mentioned in our last call we should complete the purchase of Canfor's 50% interest in Peace Valley this quarter as we continue to work through the regulatory process to split the timber licenses.
We are looking forward to finalizing this transfer for lots of reasons: it is a great operation; we will increase our return on 50% of the sales from a 4% margin to market margins; and finally it sure will make talking about OSB cost of sales a lot easier for Sallie.
We did move to a 24/7 shifting pattern at Peace Valley in Q1.
We recently added a fourth shift in our Maniwaki Québec mill.
And in the next few months we will be executing on a capital project that will allow our Swan Valley Manitoba mill to operate at full production.
As planned we did begin operating the Clarke County mill last month.
And as expected most of the current effort is targeted at addressing the many many issues that arise when a mill that hasn't run for 5 years is put back on line.
We will be in a position assuming demand continues to increase to start up our Dawson Creek British Columbia Mill with limited production of radiant barrier and flooring for the West Coast market this summer.
In Siding the project to rebuild the press in Two Harbors while at the same time increasing capacity was completed in Q1 on time and on budget.
This did take the mill off-line for about 30 days during the quarter.
The good news is that we're already seeing the benefits from better tolerance control and higher volumes.
In Hayward we continue to fill up the production on the second line with Siding products as demand increases and we subsequently reduced our OSB shipments.
In South America efforts continue in our search for a site to accommodate a third mill in Chile.
In parallel we are also looking at options to incrementally add capacity at our existing mills to satisfy the market demand.
In Engineered Wood we've increased production in all of our plants and are evaluating when to bring additional equipment and/or shifts back online.
Other actions that we are taking to address potential bottlenecks of higher activity include: we've increased the number of owner-operated trucks that we manage through our New Waverly Transportation division by about 20%; we continue to work with the Canadian rail companies to increase the amount of equipment and service to satisfy higher demand.
In Q1 we struggled getting our products to market due to the inability of the Canadian railroads to meet their commitments.
This will be an ongoing issue for our industry and for other rail shippers.
In a cooperative effort with our sales force customers and our credit department we are working to make sure that our channel partners have the ability to increased their inventory levels to support enhanced building activity.
My outlook for the remainder 2013 is for steady growth in single-family housing starts and somewhat erratic growth in the multi-family segment.
With March total starts at an annualized rate of 1 million we are increasingly confident that building activity will be strong through the rest of this year and into next year as household formations increase.
To meet this demand the industry needs to make progress on credit availability development of building lots and address the shortage of skilled and unskilled labor.
Housing is probably the bright spot in the economy as the GDP forecast stands at less than 2% for 2013.
Reasons for slower economic growth remained the same and include the turmoil in Washington D.C.
around the budget the deficit and tax policy; concern tied to cost and implementation issues in the Affordable Health Care Act; political tensions around the world North Korea Syria Iran and Afghanistan and more; lower job growth and consumer confidence on a roller coaster.
In summary I now believe that 1 million housing starts in 2013 is possible and LP is ready to support this level of activity.
But because of the headwinds I just discussed we do have a plan B that can be immediately implemented if activity slows.
As I've often said LP has to remain agile in a fast-changing world.
With that let me turn it over to Sallie for questions.
Thank you Curt.
Erica we're ready for questions if we could go to the queue.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Curt 2 things.
Obviously lots of bullishness about housing but we're also hearing that housing trends are changing.
Can you give us a sense of what you're seeing in terms of changes in footprint? And we've also heard lately that there's actually been a small shift away from engineered components and I'm wondering if that's a real shift or just mix.
And then one bigger question strategically you've tried several times over the years to find a complementary business.
Sidings is getting better but would it still be your preference to find a second big business if you can find one? Well those are a lot of questions Mark.
Let me just talk on the housing trends.
What we are seeing as I mentioned we're seeing erratic growth in multi families.
It goes way up and it goes way down and goes way up and it comes way down.
Multi family is important to us but it's not nearly as important as single family so there's a lot less of our products in multifamily.
On the single-family side we did see a decline in the square footage from 2010 to 2011 but then that recovered between '11 and '12 back up to where it was.
So really we haven't seen a smaller footprint.
But clearly the mix between single-family and multifamily affects the product.
You asked a question in Engineered Wood we are not seeing a decline in the percentage of raised wood floors.
Now there are areas of the country Texas in particular that does have a significant amount on slab and there you wouldn't use Engineered Wood.
But on raised wood floors -- I think it's really mix where it happens.
The raised wood floors I think interior wood was 52% of the market and it's been about that for the last several years.
So there hasn't been a big change there.
As far as we like to diversify into another product as profitable as OSB we would but I don't know what it is.
The diversification that we have achieved is taking our strand-based technology and moving it into alternative products like the Siding and our Laminated Strand Lumber and then diversifying geographically with our investments in South America.
Research Division</strong> So for now -- no no no.
So for now that will remain the focus it's trying to keep moving with these trends and then -- and continue to expand geographically? Rather than using your balance sheet strength to look for something new? I think that is the focus right now.
We still have a lot of facilities that aren't running near capacity and we want to take advantage of that as the market comes back.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Partners.
LLC</strong> First question is could you just talk a little bit about your cost experience in the quarter? I know you normally take more downtime in the fourth quarter which I would assume would have a greater cost impact.
And yet if I got those numbers right it looks like your shipments were about 8% less in the first quarter than the fourth even though you produced more looking at that swing you gave us.
And yet the cash cost of goods sold looked like they were pretty flat from fourth to first.
So I was just wondering -- so the unit cost obviously went up.
So maybe if you could just help us with that a little bit.
Sure Chip.
Let's start with reminding everybody that at LP we operate at an FOB destination instead of FOB shipping.
And so that has a lot to do with the seasonality that we see in our production versus our sales numbers.
And if we look just specifically at your question around the cost of production our cost of production really didn't increase very much from the fourth quarter to the first quarter.
It's probably about 5% higher than the first quarter of 2012 and that would have been related to some of the input Cost.
But on the cost of sales side what you're really seeing there is the impact of the Peace Valley joint venture and that we only get 50% of the EBITDA right now coming out of that.
And that did in fact -- we did see quarter-over-quarter that's probably almost a 20% increase in our cost of sales.
And most of that is attributed to Peace Valley.
A bit of that is going to be attributed to the higher -- to the cost associated with starting up Clarke County.
LLC</strong> And -- okay.
Got you.
And can you update us on where -- sort of how that cost can you give us some are specifics on the costs of starting up Clarke County and sort of where you today? I know you've told us it will probably take several quarters to get that up to full speed.
But how does it look now that you're in the process? How do you sort of see that ramping up? Will it be at 50% for example of capacity by summer? Or can you give us some specifics there? Well what we said when we started -- when we were talking about starting a mill up it would be $8 million to $10 million in capital and personnel costs and that's still a pretty good estimate.
We started ramping that up -- or we started making some hiring decisions in November of last year.
So we had virtually full staffing on board at the end of the first quarter.
So we had a lot of those expenses in the first quarter.
And the numbers are somewhere in the $4 million to $5 million range about half of that probably happened in the first quarter.
As I said in my comments we did start up with production in April.
And right now we're troubleshooting we are producing some product.
I would expect that we're going to be -- I think the numbers that we have given is we expect to be at kind of 50% to 60% of capacity sometimes towards the end of the summer.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the last question is you mentioned the seasonality between production and sales in the fourth and first quarter.
Where do you see that in the second quarter? In other words where do you see your sales relative to where production is? Here's what happens.
Let me just be very clear.
So on the fourth quarter we take the downtime and the shipments that we make in the fourth quarter generally happen in the first part of December.
They reach the customer.
And so that is a -- considered a sale.
In the first quarter anything we ship by rail in the last 2 weeks of the quarter still are inventory.
Even though it's sold it hasn't reached a customer yet so we don't recognize it.
But -- so what you're really looking at is the difference of in-transit between the end of each quarter.
So we would not anticipate much difference in the in-transit between Q2 and Q3 at the end of the month -- at the end of the quarter.
Great or 3 or 4? Or 3 or 4.
So it's really the change in the in-transit that...
Part of the book end quarters.
LLC</strong> And it was just more extreme than normal when we look at the fourth and the first? Well I really think you have to consider is demand has been ramping up so much.
So I think you're noticing the swing is probably more than you have in the last 6 years.
One last thing is what exacerbated that was my comments on the Canadian railroad.
We had a lot of material that was sold but we couldn't get cars to ship it from Canada.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And then lastly did you -- and you might have mentioned this Curt what sort of a good guess as to when the Peace Valley deal closes? We hope to close it this quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Curt can you give a little bit more color on some of the capacity news that you were discussing? The change at Swan Valley exactly what are you doing and what will that add? And I guess once you make all those changes what would be your operating rate assuming you're kind of running that? Would you have anything kind of less in your pocket? Well what we are doing -- what we did in the first quarter is we ran 24/7 on our U.S.
operations.
In Canada we were limited in Swan Valley we have -- this is probably more detail than you want but we have got to increase the stack heights so that we can meet all the environmental requirements to run that 24/7.
So that's what we're doing there and we have to wait for the weather to accommodate that construction project.
So we ran at about -- in Q1 the running mills ran at about 83% of capacity.
And then the only one that's not that we haven't talked much about is Chambord.
And what we did say of Chambord when we get to 1 000 001 kind of housing starts we're going to have to think about that one.
So that's the only one that's not currently running and that's about a 450-million-square foot mill.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And can you maybe give a little bit more color? I guess you referenced some mix shift in OSB in the quarter exactly kind of what that is? And was that a positive or negative impact just given how strong commodity prices were in the quarter? I'm not...
Well yes we did we saw -- Gail we saw more value-added in the quarter because we're continuing to increase our value-added.
And so on a relative basis you just do the percentages you look at these percentage change in price.
And you compare that to your commodity price the percentage changes will be less on the value-added.
So but the gross margin -- that doesn't mean the gross margin is less.
So on a cash basis it's good for the company but on these realizations to the commodity you're not going to see that same level of price realization.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just I guess sticking with OSB and pricing can you give a little bit perspective on what you think has starts the recent selloff? And do you think supplies suddenly caught up with demand? Or would you expect that to kind of bounce back in the near term? I hate to do this but I'm going to blame it on the weather.
We had very severe winter in Canada and then we had a late winter in the northern tier of the U.S.
In fact last week we had what 19 inches of snow in Minnesota.
So there wasn't much building going on in Minnesota.
So I think part of it was a backup due to those weather considerations.
The other piece of that and I mentioned this we're working closely with our customers.
Customers are somewhat constrained because most of them are working on asset-based lending facilities on how much they can bring in and so they really need to get the flow-through because they don't have the ability to carry extra inventory.
So I think it was related to that.
We did have in Q1 we had the highest Q1 OSB prices at least since I've been in LP for 15 years.
So it's -- it was a high number and I think that some of the buyers were looking for an opportunity to pull back on the purchases so they could affect the price.
And that's what we've seen over the last 4 5 weeks.
I would expect that as the weather improves that all of our discussions with the builders is there's a lot of pent-up demand for that product and going to flow pretty quickly.
And that we are going to be in a position where there's going to be tightness between available supply and demand.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
If I remember right you were also going to add a shift at Peace Valley did that happen? It did.
I think I said that yes.
Okay.
Great.
So when we take into account all the actions that you've taken and everything you're going to take x to possibility as Chambord how much production of OSB do you think is if you could -- let's say next year kind of if we keep Chambord to the side? How much do you think you'll be able to produce? Well next year if we have the ability to run 24/7 we could do about 1.3 billion 1.4 billion per quarter.
So I'd give you 4.2 billion roughly without Chambord.
So 5.2 billion without Chambord? 4.2 billion without Chambord.
Oh I'm sorry I take that back.
Yes it would be about 5 with Peace Valley.
I would -- didn't include Peace Valley.
I'm sorry.
Okay.
Great.
And just also you mentioned at Clarke -- there have been some costs at Clarke County in the first quarter.
Are there going to be similar types of costs in the second quarter related to Clarke County? Or does that start going away? And are there -- what other types of start up costs as you are ramping up your system might we be seeing in the short term? Well there will be costs associated -- I mean Clarke County's production cost will be higher in the second quarter than what it will be when it's running.
So but again you will absorb some of that $4 million that I talked about in the cost production.
Okay.
And then lastly just to make sure I understand so how do you -- how did the OSB product that had gotten into -- onto the rail but haven't been delivered to the customer? Had the customer actually taken ownership of them prior to the end of the quarter? Can we just take the average profitability of the OSB system which was order of magnitude $130 per thousand board feet and times that by the $60 million and that was kind of -- was it accumulated in inventory that's going to show up in the second quarter? You could do a part of that.
The difficulty that we always have is when we disadvantage the customer by not delivering they get the lower of the price of the order or when they actually get it.
So in a declining market we'll get a little bit of a hiccup there.
So this rail situation has been problematic for us.
But the customer themselves do not own the inventory until it delivers to their site.
Your next question comes from the line of Graham Meagher with TD Securities.
I guess just thinking about the operating costs.
If you could provide your -- a little bit of an outlook on fiber and resin and specifically on labor as you're ramping up production in some of these mills? Sure.
In terms of fiber we're really seeing I'd say plus or minus we're seeing costs that are pretty similar with where they were last -- in the -- towards the end of last year.
So we're not seeing huge increases in our wood quarter-over-quarter.
In terms of resins as you recall we talked about higher costs.
And in particular in our Siding business we are seeing the impact of higher costs associated with our resins and wax.
And quarter-over-quarter and while we don't expect that those will continue to increase consecutively we have seen higher increases when you compare them to the prior year quarter.
And labor we haven't seen huge increases in our labor cost at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
D.
Research Division</strong> First of all what level of capacity utilization do you need to get Engineered Wood profitable? And where do you think you are now? Well it was an interesting quarter for Engineered Wood because we did see increased demand with housing coming back.
And unfortunately the cost of sales in I-Joist really overshadowed an improvement in profitability in both LVL and LSL.
If you think about an I-Joist when we had OSB pricing going up by 102% and lumber going up significantly we just couldn't catch up with price increases quickly enough to offset the raw materials costs.
So other than I-Joist I actually was pretty pleased with the Q1 performance in Engineered Wood that it is coming back.
So I do think...
Research Division</strong> So what do you think that the ingredients in the LVL sandwich are doing now? And will that help in the second quarter? I think that there is increasing demand for both LVL and LSL.
And as I said in my comments we are adding production in both of those.
Really the struggle for us has been in the I-Joist.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Sorry I misquote Curt.
But yes so -- but it looks like OSB and lumber prices are coming down.
So...
And that will benefit EWP but frankly it hurts me more in OSB than it helps me in EWP.
And Brian doesn't like that he runs our EWP business.
Research Division</strong> So I guess it just depends which pocket is bigger.
And then with respect to Plan B you didn't really articulate it but does that mean you might slow up some of the restarts? Yes.
That is -- it's that plus we also have -- we have developed a cadre of customers that are export.
But the export isn't willing to pay a North American price yet.
But what it does allow us to do is move volume off profitably to make the supply/demand balance more favorable.
Research Division</strong> And final question.
Good to see that we continue to ramp up in South America so the third plant in Chile what's the timeframe for that and -- just if I remember it correctly is it St Michel Wood probably be the next machine to go down there? No.
It won't -- it probably won't be the St Michel.
We actually have equipment available in a variety of configurations and so I think that's the -- the discussion that we are having is what size expansion do we do and at what timeframe do we do that.
So I would expect that we'll have a recommendation from our South American leadership sometime this summer which would mean another 18 months to put the equipment in place.
Research Division</strong> But the 2 that you brought down and one was from Colorado and other one was originally from Houlton Maine wasn't it? No.
It's from Chilco Idaho.
It was the first one and the second one you're right it was from Colorado.
But we also have Silsbee we have Athens that are permanently curtailed in the St Michel mill which you mentioned.
The St Michel mill is about a 460-million-square foot mill which is probably too big of a bite to go down there and we have some other thoughts on redeploying that.
We also need more siding capacity and so we need to think about what equipment we want to use for that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well just is -- Canada seems to be the CanExel market but do you think the LP SmartSide siding would be good for the Canadian market or you would ship it from St Michel? Well I'm not sure we would start it up at St Michel because we are still working with a buyer on some of the other facilities there.
I think what we would probably do is redeploy that equipment summer else into a wood basket that's logistically appropriate.
The problem with St Michel is there's no rail siding there and that makes it problematic for shipping.
Your last question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on -- I guess realization is where we missed.
And it sounds like it's really from its effect on FOB destination versus shipping.
Any idea of how you could quantify that and whether that's regular practice with the rest of the industry? First I don't think the realization is related to that.
That's really just the sales volume versus production volumes is more of what that this.
On the realization side there's a couple of things to remember.
First of all we sell a whole series of products into all different markets.
As Sallie talked about I think in the first quarter our value-added products are about 45% of our sales versus the commodity at 55%.
If we just look at a commodity index and our commodity pricing we're pretty close from a realization in that 90% to 95% range.
When you get into the value added and a rising market in particular there's a couple of things: one the value-added pricing doesn't respond as quickly; and the second part of that is generally you sell this at a level and then there's an adder to it.
But you don't get the market accelerator on the adder the adder remains the same.
So for instance if we sell TechShield at Random Lengths plus $50 the plus $50 doesn't change.
So you don't get an increase on that.
The other piece of our realization as I just talked about with Steve on plan B.
When we do see a supply demand imbalance we do use our export market as a relief valve.
And so when we sell in the export market it's profitable business but it's not at the same pricing that we see in the domestic market but the advantage to us is by tightening up that supply-demand it gets reflected in the Random Lengths pricing and so we're better off from that perspective.
So those are kind of the elements of it so it would be whatever we get the increase we don't get on the adder.
The slower response on some of the value-added products as an example 20 on our flooring products.
The flooring products lagged the commodity index and Random Lengths pretty significantly in the first quarter.
And we're the leading seller of flooring products.
So those are kind of the elements of it.
I can assure you that we spent a lot of time looking at realization.
And on a strictly commodity side we do very well.
We're right on top of the index if these other moving parts on what we decided to from an export standpoint and how the value-added products respond.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just on order files maybe you can comment on recent activity.
It seems like from a number of trade publications that sales volumes did pick up in the last week or so.
What you're seeing there and what you seeing on your order files going forward? Well what Randomly Length said is that order files were sporadic depending on who they talk to.
Some people have wood available next week and some didn't have anything available until end of June.
So it depends on the strategy for the various producers and various regions.
I think it's fair to say that most producers extended order files last week.
And we would expect to see that happen again particularly with weather coming back and there's going to be more flow-through the channel so they'll need to replenish.
What random links said was there were a lot of buyers out there looking to fill back up their inventories.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly investors seem nervous with the announced capacity additions coming to the market.
You based off your experience with Clarke County startup and all the other was you noticed out there versus what you expect on consensus starts and housing activity and hopefully better weather.
Is that a concern to you? It isn't.
And I think Paul I've seen of the some of the work you've done if we were going to think about 1.1 billion square feet per 100 000 housing starts.
And we're going to go from 750 000 last year to 1.3 million.
That's 6 billion square feet of OSB demand and what we've announced to startup is about 1.7 million.
And that's going to start up overtime.
So I think we're bringing it back in a very rational rational way to meet the demand.
Well thank you very much.
Thanks everybody.
Erica if you could please provide the replay number? We'd like to thank everybody for participating on our call.
And Mike and Becky are here to follow-up with any other questions you may have.
Thank you all and have a very good day.
The replay number for this call will be (866) 233-1854 or (617) 614-4949 with a replay access code of 23503432.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
Everyone may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2013 Louisiana-Pacific Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Allison and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Sallie Bailey Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please proceed ma'am.
Thank you very much Allison and good morning.
Thank you for joining our conference call to discuss LP's financial results for the second quarter of 2013 and year-to-date result.
I am Sallie Bailey LP's Chief Financial Officer and with me today are Curt Stevens LP's Chief Executive Officer; as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley our primary Investor Relations contacts.
I will begin the discussion with a review of the financial results for the second quarter of 2013 and the first 6 months of 2013.
This will be followed by some comments on the performance of the individual segments and selected balance sheet items.
After I finish my remarks Curt will discuss the general market environment in which LP has been operating provide his perspective on our operating results for the second quarter of 2013 and give some thoughts on the outlook for the second half of 2013.
As we have done in the past we have opened up this call to the public and are doing a webcast.
The webcast can be accessed at www.lpcorp.com.
Additionally to help with the discussion we've provided a presentation with supplemental information that should be reviewed in conjunction with the earnings release.
I will be referencing these slides in my comments this morning.
We have also filed an 8-K this morning with some supplemental information as well as our Form 10-Q.
I want to remind all the participants about the forward-looking statements comment on Slide 2 of the presentation.
Please also be aware of the discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial information included on Slide 3 of the presentation.
The Appendix attached to the presentation has some of the necessary reconciliations that have been supplemented by the Form 8-K filing we made this morning.
Rather than reading these 2 statements I incorporate them with this reference.
Before I get started on the detailed discussion of LP's financial results for the second quarter I'd like to give you some color on our end markets.
The second quarter began with seasonally adjusted housing starts through March at just above $1 million and North Central 7/16 OSB average selling price at $420.
Second quarter ended with seasonally adjusted housing starts at 836 000 and North Central 7/16 OSB average selling price at $265.
While we were adding shifts and capacity at the start of the quarter to meet customer demand for our product we ended the quarter by taking off shifts also to meet customers demand consistent with our comments about remaining agile in meeting our customer needs.
We believe that our customers' built inventory in the first quarter and the initial weeks of second quarter to meet forecasted demand.
In the second half of the second quarter these same customers were working to take down their inventory levels.
Other factors impacting demand for our product were weather related as well as supply-chain issues such as labor shortages lot shortages lower levels of government services for inspections and available financing.
With that let me go into the details.
Moving to Slide 4 of the presentation for a discussion of the second quarter 2013 and first half consolidated results.
We reported net sales of $573 million for the second quarter of 2013 a 34% increase from the net sales reported for the second quarter of 2012.
In the second quarter 2013 we recorded net income of $94 million or $0.65 per diluted share.
These results included a gain of $36 million on the acquisition of the remaining 50% ownership of the Peace Valley mill.
In the second part of 2012 we reported a net loss of $37 million or $0.27 per diluted share and $428 million of net sales.
We recorded a $52 million pretax charge associated with the early debt extinguishment.
This represents the make whole provision for the debt which was tendered plus associated deferred costs.
The adjusted income from continuing operations for the quarter was $59 million or $0.41 per share based on a normalized tax rate of 35% compared to income of $3 million or $0.02 per share in the second quarter of 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $122 million for the quarter compared to EBITDA of $37 million in the second quarter of 2012.
On a year-to-date basis we recorded $1.1 million (sic) [billion] in net sales $159 million in net income and earnings per share of $1.10 as compared to net sales of $789 million a net loss of $49 million and a loss per share of $0.35 in the first half of 2012.
On a non-GAAP basis we recorded adjusted income from continuing operations of $118 million earnings per share of $0.82 and adjusted EBITDA of $243 million for the first 6 months of 2013.
A significant improvement over the first 6 months of 2012 when we recorded $6 million of adjusted loss from continuing operations and a loss per share of $0.04 and adjusted EBITDA of $58 million.
I will now move to Slide 5 and review of our segment results beginning with OSB.
OSB recorded operating profit of $95 million on $306 million of sales in the quarter compared to operating profit of $17 million on $195 million of sales in the second quarter of 2012.
For the quarter we are reporting adjusted EBITDA of $108 million compared to adjusted EBITDA of $28 million in the second quarter of 2012.
We had a 2% increase in volume and our average sales price was 59% higher relative to the second quarter of 2012.
The improvement in pricing was the most significant contributor to the approved OSB performance almost $110 million.
Our pricing rate of improvement will differ from Random Lengths' North Central 7/16 changes due to our geographic -- different geographical footprint broader product offerings and value-added products.
Random Lengths' North Central 7/16 pricing was up 48% over the second quarter of 2012.
As we have indicated in the past our pricing will stay above Random Lengths in a market with falling prices and our pricing tends to lag in markets with improving prices.
Offsetting the impact of higher pricing is the increase in raw materials as well as start-up costs on both Clarke County and Dawson Creek.
Curt will update you on those operations during his comments.
We closed the Peace Valley transaction on May 31.
And the joint venture accounting 100% of the sale of Peace Valley product have been included in LP sales.
And the cost of sales had been reported at market rather than at the cost of production.
Now that we own 100% of the mill all the sales will continue to be included in our reported results but the cost of sales will reflect the cost of production for the mill.
This will give you greater visibility on the margins in our OSB business.
In the second quarter LP's 50% interest in the earnings from the joint venture is recorded on our income statement in equity and income or loss of unconsolidated affiliates for the months of April and May.
This amount is also delineated in our reconciliation of EBITDA from continuing operations filed as part of our 8-K this morning.
In the second quarter of 2013 Peace Valley contributed $7.8 million to OSB's adjusted EBITDA as compared to $3 million in the second quarter of 2012.
For the month of June the Peace Valley results are consolidated.
However given the impact of purchase accounting on a transaction LP will not recognize the benefit of a lower cost reduction until the third quarter.
You'll also note some changes on our balance sheet as a result of the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in the Peace Valley mill.
Plant property and equipment increased $146 million timber licenses increased by $34 million and we added $10 million of goodwill.
The investment in and affiliates to -- and advances to affiliates balance decreased by $74 million due to the acquisition.
For the first 6 months OSB had an operating income of $194 million compared to $17 million in 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA for the comparable period was $216 million compared to $38 million in the comparable period of 2012.
The impact of pricing between the years was $233 million and accounted for the majority of the change.
The remaining difference is due to higher raw material costs and the costs associated with starting up our Clarke County and Dawson mills.
Slide 6 reports the result of the Siding business.
This segment includes our SmartSide and CanExel siding products and commodity OSB produced in our Hayward mill.
The Siding segment reported sales of $153 million in the second quarter of 2013 an increase of 11% from $137 million reported in the second quarter of 2012.
The Siding segment reported operating income of $27 million compared to $19 million in the second quarter of 2012 and adjusted EBITDA of $32 million an increase of $8 million compared to the second quarter of 2012.
OSB contributed $5 million for the result.
For the quarter SmartSide average sales prices were up 2% and volumes increased 8%.
Volume increased in our SmartSide siding line due to continued penetration in several key focus markets including retail repair and remodel markets and sheds.
Improvements due to higher volumes in prices were offset by higher raw material costs resins and overlays as well as additional sales and marketing expenses.
CanExel prices were down 2% in U.S.
dollars but up 2% in Canadian dollars mostly related to mix and volumes were up 4% in the quarter.
On a year-to-date basis the Siding segment reported $287 million in sale $48 million in profit and $56 million in adjusted EBITDA.
For the first 6 months of 2012 the Siding segment recorded sales of $250 million profit of $36 million and adjusted EBITDA of $45 million.
The improvement from the first 6 months of 2012 is driven by increased volume of 13% in SmartSide and higher sales price and about $11 million related to improved OSB pricing offset by higher raw material costs especially resins and overlays.
Please turn to Slide 7 of the presentation we'll show the results from our Engineered Wood Products segment.
This segment includes I-Joist Laminated Strand Lumber Laminated Veneer Lumber plus other related products.
This segment also includes the sale of I-Joist and LVL products produced by the Abitibi joint venture or under a sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood.
The Engineered Wood Products segment recorded sales of $61 million in the second quarter of 2013 up from $52 million in the second quarter of 2012.
The segment's operating loss in the second quarter of 2013 was $5 million as compared to a loss of $3 million in the second quarter 2012.
For the second quarter of 2013 adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations decreased $1 million as compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Volumes of I-Joist were up 2% while volumes of LVL and LSL were up 15% compared to the same quarter last year primarily due to higher LSL sales.
Pricing was up 13% in I-Joist and 5% in LVL and LSL reflecting price increases in all product lines introduced to offset rising raw material costs.
Higher costs for lumber OSB and veneer negatively impacted the results of the EWP business in the second quarter of 2013 and the first 6 months of 2013 when compared to the same period in 2012.
On a year-to-date basis Engineered Wood Products reported net sales of $124 million a loss of $9 million and negative EBITDA of $2 million.
In the first 6 months of 2012 Engineered Wood Products reported net sales of $100 million a loss of $6 million and negative EBITDA of $1 million.
Sales volumes in I-Joist were up 16% and volumes for LSL and LVL were up 14%.
Moving to Slide 8 of the presentation.
For the quarter our South American segment recorded sales of $44 million approximately the same level of sales as the second quarter of 2012.
Operating income increased 50% from $4 million in the second quarter of 2012 to $6 million in the second quarter of 2013.
South America's adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $9 million for the second quarter of 2013 compared to $6 million recorded in the second quarter of 2012.
Volumes in Chile were down 5% while volumes in Brazil were down 10% compared to the same quarter last year.
The sales volume decrease in Chile was primarily due to selling less imported product.
In Brazil the lower volume was due to lower export sales as compared to the second quarter of 2012 and taking some downtime in Brazil for maintenance.
Pricing was up 6% in Chile and up 9% in Brazil.
In local currency Chile recorded a 5% increase and Brazil recorded 10% improvement in pricing.
For the first 6 months of 2013 South America recorded net sales of $89 million a profit of $13 million and adjusted EBITDA of $18 million.
For this first 6 months of 2012 South America recorded net sales of $85 million profit of $7 million and adjusted EBITDA of $12 million.
Our Molding business U.S.
Green Fiber joint venture and various other nonoperating facilities are shown on the other building products segment.
Overall we are showing a loss of $2 million from the second quarter of 2013 which is comparable to the second quarter of 2012.
Operating results for the first 6 months of 2013 were flat with the 2012 results for the same period.
Total SG&amp;A costs were $36 million in the second quarter of 2013 compared to $31 million in the same quarter in 2012.
For the first 6 months of 2013 SG&amp;A costs were $71 million compared to $62 million for the first 6 months of 2012.
The increase in SG&amp;A costs is primarily due to costs associated with our systems upgrade project higher sales and marketing expenses in our Siding business and higher incentive compensation accruals.
We recorded a $3.6 million foreign exchange loss in the quarter compared to a $2.6 million loss in the same quarter last year.
For the 6 months period we recorded a $4.3 million loss in 2013 compared to a $2.7 million loss in 2012.
Interest expense was $10 million in the quarter compared to $13 million in the second quarter of 2012.
This reduction was primarily related to the lower interest expense we recorded due to the refinancing as well as lower amortization referred to our lower deferred debt expense.
For the first 6 months of 2013 interest expense was $20 million.
This compared to $26 million in the first 6 months of 2012.
Moving to Slide 9 of the presentation.
As of June 30 2013 we had cash cash equivalents investments and restricted cash of $645 million; working capital of $873 million; net cash of $251 million.
And in addition to the $631 million of cash on our balance sheet we had $100 million availability on our asset-based line facility.
CapEx expenditures for the 6 months were $26 million.
This does not include the $67 million net of cash acquired we spent on the Peace Valley acquisition.
We generated $147 million of operating cash for the quarter and $164 million of operating cash flow in the first 6 months of 2013.
And as we discussed in our last conference call we are planning to spend approximately $85 million for capital expenditures in 2013.
Now we'll turn the call over to Curt for his comments.
Thank you Sallie.
That was a very detailed review lots of numbers there.
I will make a few comments today on our performance for the last quarter also talk about some of the other accomplishments that we had last quarter including the startup of the 2 mills that Sallie mentioned including my views on the housing market and provide some comments on what I see for the second half of this year.
For the second quarter in a row our safety performance was very good with a year-to-date total incident rate of 0.48 and the rolling 12-month total incident rate of 0.37.
Again safety remains the #1 objective at LP.
As Sallie just reviewed overall sales increased by about 45 -- by 35%.
We're at $0.67 per diluted share 41% on an adjusted basis.
And for the second quarter in a row we had over $120 million in adjusted EBITDA.
OSB prices moderated in the quarter from Q1 but were still up substantially from last year.
As in the first quarter higher shipments of our SmartSide strand products had another strong quarter in South America and contributed to our improved performance.
While Q2 was a very good quarter it was also a bit confusing as we saw weakening demand in pricing in OSB a reported decline in housing starts in June and turmoil in the mortgage markets as rate spiked following comments by the Federal Reserve.
This is the same time that the homebuilders are universally telling the story of improved housing demand more pricing power and concerns about material shortages.
So here I'm going to share some of my theories.
Weather played a big part in lower housing starts we had very cold weather in April in the northern tier in the U.S.
and unusually wet weather in Texas and the Carolinas in June.
Builders were delayed by labor shortages both skilled and unskilled.
We also heard about delays in inspections and other local government-supplied support services.
We believe that these issues have combined to lengthen the build cycle by 30 to 45 days.
The channel did add inventory in Q1 and the first part of Q2 but they didn't see the pull-through at the builder level due to what I just discussed.
We now believe the channel has moved through this and are buying to replenish their inventories.
Credit remains very tight particularly for the small and medium builders.
Chairman Benanke's comments on ending bond buying at the U.S.
sent mortgage markets into a tailspin.
The U.S.
experienced the largest month-over-month increase in mortgage rates in 26 years between May and June.
However I am confident these issues will be addressed in the coming months and that builders will be able to satisfy the pent-up demand for housing.
LP responded to these reduced demand for OSB by taking some downtime in several of our facilities.
We increased our export sales and we slowed the planned start-up volumes at Clarke County and Dawson Creek.
I am hopeful that the demand for our products will increase and we can continue to reverse some of these actions.
Other accomplishments in the second quarter at the end to May as Sallie mentioned we did complete the acquisition of Canfor's 50% interest in our Peace Valley joint venture.
We will now be able to enjoy the full profits of this operation less Canfor's earn-out.
It will simplify our accounting so it will be more easily understood by our investors and we'll be able to integrate this more completely into our broader OSB operations.
As Sallie explained there was some rather complicated accounting for the stepped [ph] acquisition which resulted at about a $36 million reported gain.
Our Siding business continues to grow with the highest quarterly SmartSide strand volumes in our history in the quarter.
We also had our best quarter ever in South America with nearly $9 million in adjusted EBITDA despite a strengthening U.S.
dollar.
As we've mentioned before we continue to review options to add capacity in Chile to satisfy domestic and neighboring country demand.
In the quarter our Clarke County and Dawson Creek mills both began limited production.
Dawson was constrained by the actions I just mentioned of holding back on production capacity to meet demand.
Clarke County was a tough start-up.
When a mill has been down for 5 years and before that it only ran for 4 months.
We did have some unanticipated difficulties with maintenance and with our software.
We had planned to lose money in the second quarter in Clarke County about $3 million.
And in fact that contributed about an $8 million loss in the quarter.
I'm confident that our A-grade production is coming back up and we will resolve these problems but it did negatively impact our second quarter results.
For the second half of the year and into next I remain very optimistic.
The consensus U.S.
housing start numbers for 2013 is about 980 000 and $1.25 million for next year.
The rolling 3-month average for single-family housing permits has risen every month since April of '2011 which is a good trend.
The inventory of new homes for sale remains very low at about 125 000 and existing homes for sale stand at $2.2 million about a 4.5 months supply.
This has fostered price increases that average over 12% year-over-year.
Household formations are starting to rebound which creates demand for housing.
In 2012 there was a 980 000 increase in households compared to 634 000 the year before.
In summary I still believe there's demand for 1 million housing starts in 2013 and up to 1.25 million next year.
We have taken the actions necessary to support this level of activity.
From the same time we are aware of the potential headwinds related to mortgage rates labor availability for builders the ongoing political chaos in Washington and slower job growth than anticipated.
So as we demonstrated last quarter we remain -- we will remain agile and committed to take any actions necessary to respond to changes in demand.
With that let me turn it back to Sallie for the question-and-answer portion.
Great.
Thank you Curt.
Now Allison if we could we'd like to go to queue for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess starting with OSB pricing would it be possible to give a sense of I guess maybe where you ended the quarter relative to what your quarter average was? Or just any vague sense of how much a lag there might have been in terms of realizing the market decline? Well again if you look at Random Lengths Random Lengths started to go down at the end of -- or about the middle of April and proceeded down really every week through the end of the quarter and didn't really turn around until after the 4th of July holiday.
So the Random Lengths price for the quarter was the lowest at the end of it and again didn't recover until the second or third week of July.
But we have seen an uptick in pricing since then although I think last Friday's was relatively flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I'm trying to understand your realization versus your average in the second quarter then just how much catch-up there may be relative to what happened in the broader market and how much might have been mix and other things? Well I -- to be honest with you I don't have those numbers in front of me.
We look at it on a quarterly basis.
So I can't...
Yes I guess the only thing we can add Gail is that we tend to have -- depending it on a 1 to 2 week lag so that's why we do worse in rising markets and do better in falling markets.
Research Division</strong> If there's only 1 to 2 weeks so that would imply that your price performance in the quarter was really driven more by mix than anything else? I think that's likely very true.
I mean we did -- our value-added product was better in the second quarter of 2013 with a greater percentage than it was in the second quarter of 2012.
Gail the other thing that happened this we did see a tightening of the flooring product between commodity and flooring where in the first quarter flooring was actually selling for a lower price than the commodity and that reversed itself.
And we sell -- we have the #1 brand in flooring in TopNotch so that helped us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean I guess just Curt going on to your broader comment.
I mean as you look more into August are you starting to see catch-up from this spring? Is there any sort of acceleration or is it more a steady state? Well right now in OSB we're seeing more of a steady state.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you talk a little bit about your export trends? I mean I presume that's reflected in Chilean volume being down but just to give a sense of the changes you did have in export? Well when we treat export -- other than Chile which obviously is very strategic to us to satisfy the demand in Chile.
The other export volume we use this kind of a relief valve where we see disconnect between demand and supply in the U.S.
And so we will take some offshore business both to Eastern Europe and also into Asia.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean was that down year-on-year quarter-on-quarter or is it up? It was up sequentially from Q1 it was probably a little bit down from Q2 of last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question.
Sallie in recent quarters you've given us kind of an inventory change number would it be possible to share that? Oh sure.
The inventory let me myself get the number.
It's -- inventory for the quarter -- Becky [ph] is going to get it for me.
The provided -- $20.5 million and then year-to-date we've used $28 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you don't have that in the volume change basis? Oh Gail we'll have to get back to you on that.
And your next question comes from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Curt Sallie just 2 things.
SmartSide looks like it's just continuing to do well as it has been and obviously not as heavy to the new home build markets are pretty attractive.
Is there a way for you to expand that geographically beyond where you're operating now or are there plans to try to do that? And the second question is input costs.
Can you tell us what you think you're going to see in the second half of the year? Well first your question on siding.
We do actually produce the siding product in South America now in our Chilean facility.
So we've been supplying that to that Chilean market and the Brazilian market out of South America.
In North America we have a product called CanExel which we sell predominantly in Canada but we do a little bit of export of CanExel into Europe.
And then our SmartSide which is really driving all the growth we do sell a -- both a pre-finished in Canada out of our East River facility and we also provide some product in Canada.
Beyond that we've got a little bit of business with Lowe's in Australia.
They asked us to follow them with our siding line down there so we do some business there.
We've looked at the opportunity in China but we think that's a little too early for us at this point.
Research Division</strong> Curt I meant to expand it more deeply across North America because it still feels like a relatively regional product.
Just wondering if -- with your success with that product whether there's a way to just grow the -- increase the growth rate faster? Well that's what we're trying to do.
We're actually in all different regions.
We have a dual distribution strategy that we've largely implemented but we haven't completely implemented that yet.
But we just changed -- we just added a major distributor in Texas which we think will accelerate our growth down there.
So we do have a dual distribution strategy throughout the state of Texas.
We are running significant marketing campaigns in the Northwest to turn the tide from some of our earlier issues there and that's been successful.
And then the strength of this product has always been kind in the middle part of the country and we continue to grow that.
So we are going on all cylinders.
I think we've added -- we've agreed to add 4 people into the Siding sales group in the second half of the year which for us they only have 100 salesmen that's a pretty big increase.
Research Division</strong> All right okay.
And on the input cost for the second half? Input cost we think we're going to be relatively flat it will be up a little bit but not a lot.
And your next question comes from Mark Wilde of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Curt you gave us some color on the different restarts I wondered if you could just give us a bit more detail.
How are you running up at Dawson Creek right now? I think the initial plan there was to run one shift are you running one shift fully right now? We are and that's largely focused at our flooring product for the West Coast and TechShield.
So we're trying to do the specialty products for the West Coast where we see that demand.
So we'll probably keep that one shift until we do see the demand come up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then down at Clarke County what kind of rate is that running at right now? Really crummy.
We're running that 4 shifts 24/7 but as I said we're having a lot of preventive maintenance work going on and debugging of -- one of the big problems we found is that the software and update on some of our equipment not all of our equipment so we're spending a lot of resources just on the software controls down there.
We're not seeing any mechanical failures it's more related to the software.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You mentioned that you had an $8 million loss in the second quarter.
Do you have any sense of what we might expect out of there if current prices just remain flat in the third quarter? I would think we'd cut that by at least half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then just moving down to the Latin American business.
You said you're still studying the third mill down in Chile can you give us some sense of what the timing might be on a decision there? We actually had a review in our board meeting last Friday.
Frederick [ph] and his team came up.
What they would like to do of course is get started immediately.
I think more practically our board will review that in the either the February or the May meeting.
And if we can get started on that we would have limited production at the end of 2015.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what would that production -- how big a facility are you talking about? I assume this is another relocation of an idled U.S.
capacity down in Chile? It is.
I think our current thinking is we do have assets of the same size as we have there now.
We also have bigger assets.
I think the current plan would be to take one of the bigger assets down there and then idle put it on the same side as the current mill then idle the current mill ramp-up the new one and then probably use that for siding only at some point in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is it possible in Latin America to give us some sense of relative profitability between Brazil and Chile? Because it sounds like Brazil has been running at probably -- it's a bigger facility been running at a lower operating rate so I assume that Chile is disproportionately profitable versus Brazil right now.
That's true for 2 reasons.
One in Chile most of it is going into the home construction.
And Brazil we're still going into packaging and furniture and other applications.
So we haven't made the full penetration to home construction.
So the margins are positive in both places but they're much more profitable in Chile.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally could just talk about what it's going to take to get the Engineered Wood business to profitability? I know you mentioned costs were up but in the face of better volumes and better price it was a little disappointing to see results actually down there.
Yes it was disappointing to us as well.
But if you think about it -- and I've seen the releases from our competitors as well then we also -- our pricing go up a little bit like 10% which is actually [ph] was a pretty big increase but the cost production is up 30% when you get OSB and lumber pricing where it was.
I think we're going to see improved -- well I know we'll see improved results in Q3 because we've worked through some of the expensive inventories as pricing has come down in OSB as well as in lumber.
What we've said pretty consistently is that we need 1 million to 1.1 million starts so that it would start to show black ink and that's kind of where we are.
Now it was a tale of multiple products.
We actually made money in our LVL business and we're pretty damn close at LSL business.
Well we lost it all with I-Joist which is very heavy on the raw materials that I just talked about.
Or next question comes from Chip Dillon of Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask you first just in terms of understanding the kind of how you all look at free cash flow I know there are a lot of moving parts.
But if we look at the net debt change as you all measure it from the first and second quarter your net -- or net cash I should say went up by $77 million.
And then you spent $67 million on the piece of -- on the other half of the mill.
So if I add those 2 together I get $144 million.
And of course I know working capital as you mentioned was a big part of it but am I missing something in that equation? Yes Chip I think the best thing to do really is to look at the 8-K supplements that we filed look at the 10-Q and look at the cash flow by the quarter.
And we generated $147 million of cash in the quarter.
We spent $71 million between CapEx and the Peace Valley joint venture so that gets to the primarily the improvement that we're talking about.
LLC</strong> Okay.
All right I'll take another look at that because that helps a lot.
And then in terms of the -- you mentioned the Clarke County mill looks like it lost $8 million in this quarter.
What was -- could to remind us what it was in the first quarter? And you're sort of saying it might be cut in half like maybe $3 million $4 million in the fourth -- I'm sorry in the third where do you sort of see that thing hitting profitability again and keeping price constant? And I mean could be a $10 million or $15 million EBIT contributor next year? Absolutely.
Yes we would -- we fully expect that the total profitability next year.
What we've always said is ramping up these mills that -- they've been idle for a while does take time.
So we are behind our curve probably by 2 months 2 to 3 months but we expect to be given that lag we expect to be where we said we would be next year.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And when you look at CapEx I know you mentioned it's $85 million for this year.
I know it's early days but can you give us kind of a range of where we could see it next year? And then how much incremental would there be because of Peace Valley? I don't -- we're going through our capital allocation right now so I'm not sure I'm comfortable giving you a number for next year.
On Peace Valley we did have some extraordinary maintenance that we had this year that's included in that $25 million -- or at least our portion included that $25 million number.
I don't think Peace Valley is going to be much different than any of our other mills.
We don't see any major deferred maintenance that's there.
So I think it will just be kind of in the $2 million to $2.5 million per plant kind of number for maintenance capital.
And Chip to give a little bit more color on the $85 million $10 million of that relates to our systems upgrade project and $75 million relates to the base businesses.
LLC</strong> Got you.
Got you.
And then as you look at the -- what's interesting about the mills that were built or started I guess back in this last cycle you've seen them kind of the last to start up if you will whether it's in the one in South Carolina or yours in Alabama.
And I guess there's one up in Canada.
Do you think there's a lesson here in terms of maybe the scale of new capacity? Maybe we've hit a point of diminishing returns and 1 day we will need more capacity and do you think it will come in smaller chunks? Or do you think that they'll still be of this size? That's a real good question.
We have a mill in Hayward Wisconsin in our Siding business it has 2 lines.
And I really pretty like that configuration because it gives me the flexibility to do siding on one of them and do OSB on other and revert back to siding when demand takes on -- takes off.
So I think that's a pretty good current configuration.
That's exactly what we were talking about in Chile.
Mark asked a question about the Chile plan.
We'll put a second plant on the same site so we can use the same management team but it will be physically separated.
Rather than being an 800 million gorilla it will be smaller than that.
The economics of these big plants is when they do go down they go down and you lose all of it.
Where if you have different configurations I think you have more flexibility.
As far as how we're going to add capacity we're going to take a page from the playbook of siding where we've added capacity in existing facilities to the extent we can by adding plants or adding peripheral additional equipment.
We did that in Two Harbors increased their capacity by 25%.
Our board just approved a project that Tomahawk to increase their capacity by 40% and we have something in the drawing boards to increase Hayward by another 40%.
So I think that's the way we're going to approach this.
Plus we do have -- we control a fair amount of idled equipment that we can redeploy like we have in South America.
We'll look at that as an alternative.
LLC</strong> Got you very helpful.
And real quickly how many salespeople did you say you added in the Siding business? Well we added 4 in the second half we added 5 in the first half.
So we've added I think 9% of our sales force basically between the first half and the second half of the year just in Siding.
Our next question comes from Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
First just back on Clarke County for a minute.
Could you remind us when that started up the facility? It started up late April early May.
Yes.
Okay.
And so I guess though with the lower price -- the product that got sold was hit when the pricing had already rolled off some? Well what we sell is -- you have to qualify the products and so you're selling less than A grade product so you're selling it for dunnage and other -- so you're selling it for lower price because of that.
Okay.
And at this point I mean how far along are you in terms of having rectified the issues? Well it's a day to day.
We're ramping it up everyday.
And we have some really good days and once in a while we have a bad day.
It's not unique to any other kind of a complicated start-up like this.
And I will say we warned everybody that these startups don't happen easily.
Sure.
And so where is your capacity at this point and your -- how much can you produce at this -- in say the second half of the year recognizing that you're obviously run to demand? But what type of rated capacity do you have at this point? I think we're right about $1 billion a quarter maybe a little north.
Now if I -- didn't you produce $1 billion in the second quarter? Yes we did.
Okay.
And so I was just -- I think you had mentioned that you have taken some down time and so just trying to understand those 2.
What's your question Mark I'm sorry? I'm just so...
Well I think the down time that we mentioned was the down time that we took in Brazil.
And what Curt's talking about...
We did take some in North America.
I know we did.
But a mean but in North America we did that by taking shifts down versus -- so...
Right.
Yes we took some shifts out in 2 of our Canadian plants.
Okay.
And then lastly I know -- production was up I think it was about 8% shipments I think were only up 2%.
So superficially it seems like you maybe built some inventory in the quarter is that accurate? And was that -- and how do you...
Yes.
That's why we took a downtime we saw our inventory coming up.
And also Curt talked about that some of our sales were -- we had some export sales this quarter.
And so we talked about this a lot in one of our earlier calls about the FOB shipping versus destination and those export sales generally if they are on the water they sometimes are in our inventory and that was true.
And so -- or they're at the port waiting to be shipped.
And so that showed up in those numbers as well and some of the difference.
I just want to go back to the rated capacity.
Our rated capacity is -- well I mean what's running is this 4.2.
Your next question comes from Steve Chercover of D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> So yes I'm also interested in your theoretical capacity.
Is all that you've got left to add would be Chambord and then 3 shifts at Dawson is that how we should look at it? That's right.
Research Division</strong> So that would be what another 400 000 -- 400 million square feet or so combined? Chambord is about a 500 million square-foot mill so probably 500 and full shifts at Dawson would add another 300 or so on that one.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And you mentioned taking I guess not a world class although I think Chip's is on to something that world class might not be the best thing to have.
But I guess what would have been a good scale facility back a generation ago down in Brazil or to Chile.
So which one of those idled assets would that be like Silsbee or St.-Michel? Well it's actually another asset that we bought in the market about 1 year ago.
Research Division</strong> Can you identify that? It's the Lemoyne mill that Marco [ph] had.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's interesting.
All right and so that would be...
Caught you offguard didn't I Steve? Research Division</strong> Yes I guess I forgot about that one.
So that one would be dedicated to commodity OSB and then ultimately the small unit would be towards SmartSide? Yes it's about 140 million square feet that's down there now that we would probably dedicate to SmartSide.
Research Division</strong> And how's the early market acceptance of SmartSide down in South America? We don't have enough capacity.
And in fact we're struggling because Brazil going to launch SmartSide as well and we have not figured out on how to do that on a continuous press.
Your next question comes from Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> With the Peace Valley acquisition now closed can you talk about how we should think about that from a modeling point of view? Or are you expecting the inventory write-up to also impact part of the third quarter? And then can you give us any color on how we should be thinking about the payout for that acquisition towards the Canfor? Sure.
Alex we should be through most of the write-up due to the acquisition in the second quarter.
There will be some minimal impact in the third quarter so I think you should view that mill similar with how you would do the modeling for the other mills that we have.
I mean other than it's the largest mill now in our family of mills I don't see that as being any different from the other information we've provided.
I mean do you want to address that? Yes on the earn out you all will be happy and so will I if I pay the earn-out out.
Basically what we've done is we set a base level of EBITDA and we share a portion of that for the next 3 years that's the way that it works.
I'm not prepared to give you the number.
Research Division</strong> Okay Curt.
And just one follow-up on that side can you guys talk to what the impact was in the second quarter from the inventory writeup? Well fundamentally it would have been as if we had owned them it's as if they did a joint venture the entire time.
So what really happened is some of that write up in the inventory showed up in the gain on the sale of that we recorded.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Research Division</strong> And -- sorry go ahead.
No.
Sorry go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
As you're restarting all the idled mills that have been out for the last couple of years can you just talk about where you see LP on the cost curve relative to the competition? And also talk to which mills do you see the flex mills in the context of choppiness and then demand which mills would be the ones potentially the ones where there would be downtime taken first? Well as far as the cost curve we see [indiscernible] studies and the [indiscernible] studies and by region we're pretty close to being on top of each other.
The decision I want to take out is generally a freight decision more than it is a cost of production because it's getting into the market.
So our Canadian mills have taken a disproportionate amount of the downtime and I would think that would continue because Maniwaki is a long ways away and Dawson Creek's a ways away so -- and Swan Valley.
So I would expect that if we flex they're going to be flexing the Canadian mills.
Now the currency U.S.
dollar getting stronger helps us a little bit that decision but when it was over parity pretty easy decision on where to take out capacity.
Research Division</strong> Makes sense Curt.
And just last question for me with the cash flow -- with the cash position building on the balance sheet can you talk about appetite for our potential special dividend similar to what your neighbor to the north has talked to where variable a dividend is paid out and reflective of the cash flow generation of the company during the course of the year? Yes.
Oh go.
Well historically our board has not supported any special dividend and they based that decision on data.
But if you look at special dividend it reduces your stock price by 105%.
It doesn't sound like a very good use of money for shareholders.
So that's not something we're too excited about.
Now we had a regular dividend in the past and we've also done share repurchases in the past.
But regular -- our special dividend would likely be at the bottom of our list.
Our next question comes from Paul Quinn of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Chris and Sallie just a couple of questions.
What's the order file? Could you sort of give us an idea of where you're at now versus sort of what you saw in Q2 and Q1? I think that the order file was longest in Q1 shortest in Q2 and we're probably somewhere in between in Q3.
How's that? LLC Research Division</strong> Not as detailed as I expected.
I think it's probably exactly as detailed as you expected but maybe not as detailed as you would have liked.
Research Division</strong> That's true as well.
Just drilling down in EWP.
The higher costs in the quarter from OSB I guess on the I-Joist how much inventory you have in that segment? And I mean because what we saw in OSB pricing was down so I'm just trying to reconcile that with the comment on higher costs.
Generally they would have between in transit because most of that -- or most of the web stock is coming out of Canada so you've got 3 to 4 weeks in transit and then you're probably sitting on another 3 to 4 weeks so you're probably on an 8-week kind of level where you're committed to pricing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just lastly just on qualification for Clarke County how long does it take when she startup to qualify that board? The board got qualified very quickly.
It got qualified within 5 days.
But then you have to make sure that every board that's coming off the line so there's extra level of quality scrutiny on that.
And if there's any question about being an A grade or not we downgrade it because we don't want to take any reputational risk.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So for example in June can you give us a rough idea as to what would be qualified board and what would be selling for less than A quality? Probably in the 25% to 30% were downgraded in June.
I don't have it right in front of me but that's kind of what I would have expected.
And now think you're probably in the less than 15% kind of number.
Thank you everyone.
Allison I think that's all the time we have for questions.
So if you could please provide the replay number.
I would like to thank everybody for participating in our call and Mike and Becky are available as always to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Thank you and we hope that all of you have a good day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes your conference call for today's call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you very much and good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Louisiana-Pacific Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your coordinator today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Ms.
Sallie Bailey Executive Vice President Administration and Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much Stephanie and good morning.
Thank you for joining our conference call to discuss LP's financial results for the third quarter of 2013 and year-to-date result.
I am Sallie Bailey LP's Chief Financial Officer and with me today are Curt Stevens LP's Chief Executive Officer; as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley our primary Investor Relations contacts.
I'll begin the discussion with a review of the financial results for the third quarter of 2013 and the first 9 months of 2013.
This will be followed by some comments on the performance of the individual segments and selected balance sheet items.
After I finish my remarks Curt will discuss the general market environment in which LP has been operating comment on the status of the announced Ainsworth transaction and provide his perspective on our operating results for the third quarter of 2013 and give some thoughts on our outlook.
As we have done in the past we have opened up this call to the public and are doing a webcast.
The webcast can be accessed at www.lpcorp.com.
Additionally to help with the discussion we have provided a presentation with supplemental information that should be reviewed in conjunction with the earnings release.
I'll be referencing these slides in my comments this morning.
We've also filed an 8-K this morning with some supplemental information and we have filed our 10-Q.
I want to remind all the participants about the forward-looking statements comment on Slide 2 of the presentation.
Please also be aware of the discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial information included on Slide 3 of the presentation.
The Appendix attached to the presentation has some of the necessary reconciliations that's been supplemented by the Form 8-K filing we made this morning.
Rather than reading these 2 statements I incorporate them with this reference.
I'll begin with some comments on the housing market.
The third quarter saw housing starts back in the 900 000 range up from the second quarter level.
However relative to the start of the year higher interest rates and the uncertainty related to the government shutdown has taken some of the momentum out of the housing market.
We continue to see positive funding.
The overhang of foreclosures continued to decline home values are appreciating again and residential construction spending is recovering.
Now with that let me go into detail.
Moving to Slide 4 of the presentation for a discussion of the third quarter 2013 and first 9 months consolidated results.
We reported sales of $507 million in the third quarter of 2013 a 10% increase from the sales reported for the third quarter of 2012.
In the third quarter of 2013 we recorded net income of $38 million or $0.26 per diluted share.
These results include income of $17 million related to the reduction of the contingent consideration associated with the acquisition of the remaining 50% of the Peace Valley mill.
Under accounting standards we are required to revalue this liability on a quarterly basis.
In the third quarter of 2012 we reported net income of $31 million or $0.22 per diluted share on $462 million of sales.
The adjusted income from continuing operations for the quarter is $19 million or $0.13 per share based on a normalized tax rate of 35% compared to income of $29 million or $0.20 per share in the third quarter of 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $65 million in the quarter compared to adjusted EBITDA of $74 million in the third quarter of 2012.
On a year-to-date basis we recorded $1.6 billion in sales a $198 million in net income and earnings per share of $1.37 as compared to sales of $1.2 billion a net loss of $17 million and a loss per share of $0.13 in the first 9 months of 2012.
On a non-GAAP basis we recorded adjusted income from continuing operations of $137 million earnings per share of $0.94 and adjusted EBITDA of $306 million for the first 9 months of 2013 a significant improvement over the first 9 months of 2012 when we recorded $21 million of adjusted income from continuing operation adjusted earnings per share of $0.15 and adjusted EBITDA of $129 million.
I will now move to Slide 5 and a review of our segment results starting with OSB.
OSB recorded operating profit of $30 million on $245 million of sales in the quarter compared to operating profit of $49 million on $227 million of sales in the third quarter of 2012.
For the quarter we reported adjusted EBITDA of $46 million compared to adjusted EBITDA of $60 million in the third quarter of 2012.
Pricing for OSB was down 5% over the third quarter of 2012.
This compares favorably however to the decline in North Central 7/16 Random Lengths pricing.
Random Lengths North Central 7/16 pricing was down 19% over the third quarter of 2012.
The decrease in the pricing resulted in lowering operating results by about $13 million.
Offsetting the decrease in price was our volume which was 15% higher than a year ago and overall our sales increased 8% over the third quarter of 2012.
We recorded higher cost in the third quarter of 2013 relative to the third quarter of 2012.
The positive impact of fully consolidating Peace Valley was more than offset by higher costs associated with the start-up of the Clarke County facility higher raw material costs increased manufacturing downtime and higher maintenance spending.
For the first 9 months OSB had an operating income of $224 million compared to $66 million in 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA for the comparable period was $262 million compared to $98 million in the first 9 months of 2012.
The impact of pricing between the years was $222 million and accounted for the majority of the change.
The remaining difference is due to higher raw material costs and costs associated with starting up our Clarke County and Dawson Creek mills.
Slide 6 reports the results of the Siding business.
This segment includes our SmartSide and CanExel siding products and commodity OSB produced in our Hayward mill.
The Siding segment reported sales of $149 million in the third quarter of 2013 an increase of 11% from $134 million reported in the third quarter of 2012.
The Siding segment reported operating income of $23 million compared to $20 million in the third quarter of 2012 and adjusted EBITDA of $27 million as compared to $24 million in the same quarter of 2012.
Lower OSB prices during the second quarter reduced results by $2 million as compared to the third quarter of 2012.
For the quarter SmartSide average sales price were up 3% and volumes increased 14%.
Volume increased in our SmartSide siding line due to continued penetration in several key focus markets including retail repair and remodel markets and sheds.
CanExel prices were flat.
Volumes were down 13% in the quarter due to lower Canadian and international demand.
On a year-to-date basis the Siding segment recorded $436 million in sales $70 million in profit and $83 million in adjusted EBITDA.
For the first 9 months of 2012 the Siding segment recorded sales of $384 million profit of $56 million and adjusted EBITDA of $69 million.
The improvement from the first 9 months of 2012 is driven by increased volume of 14% in SmartSide and slightly higher sales price.
Approximately $10 million of the year-over-year improvement in the Siding segment related to higher OSB pricing.
Please turn to Slide 7 of the presentation which shows the results from our Engineered Wood Products segment.
This segment includes I-Joist Laminated Strand Lumber Laminated Veneer Lumber plus other related products.
The segment also includes the sale of I-Joist and LVL products produced by the Abitibi joint venture or under our sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood.
The Engineered Wood product segment recorded sales of $72 million in the third quarter of 2013 up from $62 million in the third quarter of 2012.
The segment's operating loss in the third quarter of 2013 was $2 million as compared to a loss of $3 million in the third quarter of 2012.
For the third quarter of 2013 adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations increased $1 million as compared to the third quarter of 2012.
Volumes of I-Joist were up 5% while volumes of LVL and LSL were up 17% compared to the same quarter of last year primarily due to increased LSL sales.
Pricing was up 11% in I-Joist and 3% in LVL and LSL reflecting price increases in all product lines which are introduced to offset rising raw material costs.
On a year-to-date basis Engineered Wood Products reported sales of $196 million a loss of $11 million and negative adjusted EBITDA of $1 million.
In the first 9 months of 2012 Engineered Wood Products recorded sales of $162 million a loss of $9 million and essentially breakeven adjusted EBITDA.
Sales volumes in I-Joist were up 12% and volumes for LSL and LVL were up 15%.
Year-to-date pricing was up 9% in I-Joist and 3% in LSL and LVL.
Moving on to Slide 8 of the presentation.
For the quarter our South American segment recorded sales of $42 million approximately the same level of sales as in the third quarter of 2012.
Operating income in the third quarter of 2013 compared to last year was up slightly.
South America's adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $8 million for the third quarter of 2013 which was also up slightly as compared to adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter of 2012.
Pricing was up 5% in Chile and down 3% in Brazil.
In local currency Chile recorded 10% increase and Brazil recorded an 8% improvement in pricing.
For the first 9 months of 2013 South America recorded sales of $131 million operating income of $18 million and adjusted EBITDA of $26 million.
For the first 9 months of 2012 South America recorded net sales of $127 million profit of $11 million and adjusted EBITDA of $20 million.
During the quarter we sold our Molding operations and recognized a gain on the sale of approximately $2 million.
As a result of this sale we have reclassified our operating results to move this operation to discontinued operations for all periods presented.
Left in our other building products segment is our U.S.
GreenFiber cellulose insulation joint venture LP's trucking operations and various others non-operating facilities.
Overall we are showing a loss of $2 million in the third quarter of 2013 which is comparable to the third quarter of 2012.
Operating results for the first 9 months of 2013 are improved at a loss of $6.1 million compared to a loss of $7.8 million in the same period of 2012.
Total selling general and administrative costs for the quarter were $34 million as compared to $31 million in the same quarter of 2012.
For the first 9 months of 2013 SG&amp;A costs were $104 million compared to $92 million for the first 9 months of 2012.
This increase in SG&amp;A costs is primarily due to costs associated with our systems upgrade project and legal and transaction costs associated with the announced acquisition of Ainsworth.
We recorded a $1 million of foreign exchange gain in the quarter compared to a $400 000 gain in the same quarter last year.
For the 9 months period we recorded a $3.3 million loss in 2013 compared to a $2.3 million loss in 2012.
Net interest expense was $6 million in the quarter compared to $7 million in the third quarter of 2012.
For the first 9 months of 2013 net interest expense was $20 million as compared to $26 million in the first 9 months of 2012.
This reduction in interest is related to the refinancing we completed in May of 2012 and the resulting reduction and amortization of deferred debt costs.
We did record a small loss and early debt extinguishment in the quarter of about $1 million.
This was related to a $19 million prepayment we made in the third quarter on debt outstanding in Chile.
Please refer to ninth slide of the presentation.
As of September 30 2013 we had cash cash equivalents investments and restricted cash of $685 million; working capital of $881 million; net cash of $310 million.
And in addition to the $685 million of cash on our balance sheet we had $100 million of availability on our asset-based loan facility.
We have entered into a commitment for up to $200 million of senior secured revolving financing with the Consortium of Farm Credit System bank.
Once the definitive loan documents are in place in early December this financing will replace our current ABL facility and will provide financing for the announced Ainsworth acquisition.
We have terminated the commitment agreement with Goldman Sachs and Bank of Montréal for up to $430 million of financing.
That financing was put in place at the announcement of the proposed Ainsworth acquisition and is no longer necessary given the successful consent solicitation on the Ainsworth senior secured notes and our new commitment from the Farm Credit System bank.
Capital expenditures for the 9 months were $45 million.
This does not include the $67 million net of cash acquired spent on acquiring the other 50% of the Peace Valley facility which was completed in May.
We generated $59 million in operating cash flow in the quarter and $223 million of operating cash flow in the first 9 months of 2013.
And as we discussed in our last quarter conference call we are planning to spend approximately $80 million for capital expenditures in 2013.
Based on our initial look at the capital budget for 2014 the range of spending is expected to be $90 million to $95 million approximately $50 million for capital maintenance and the remainder is targeted for projects such as capacity expansion in our Siding business a press rebuild for one of our OSB mills and an additional capital for our third Chilean mill.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Curt for his comments.
Thank you for that review Sallie.
Today I'll make some comments on our performance for the last quarter talk about the current state of the housing market give you an update on the Ainsworth acquisition talk about some other accomplishments we had in the quarter and finally provide comments on what I see for the rest of this year and into 2014.
For the third quarter our safety performance was very good.
For year-to-date TIR total incident rate of 0.52 and a rolling TIR of 0.45.
In October I'm pleased to say that LP was named one of America's safest company's by EH&amp;S Magazine this is an honor that we received for the second time.
Sallie just reviewed overall sales increase to about 10%.
We earned 26% -- or $0.26 per diluted share $0.13 per share on an adjusted basis and adjusted EBITDA of $64 million in the quarter.
Every one of our segments was adjusted EBITDA positive in the quarter and all except OSB had better results in the same quarter last year.
Siding in South America continued to do very well.
As we think about the housing market the question I get is so what happened in Q3.
My summary is that the housing market is improving across the U.S.
but at a much slower pace than we anticipated earlier this year.
In our discussions with builders and our channel partners they support this view that housing is recovering although they do have some headwinds.
They continue to be concerned about labor shortages both skilled and unskilled costs and availability of high-quality lots and the lack of a supportive local infrastructure and these are planners inspectors roads and utilities.
The other thing that has become very obvious to us is the first time homebuyer is not yet participating in this housing recovery.
This is due to the increase in mortgage rates tighter credit standards from banks and lackluster job growth.
On the other hand it's been recently noted in a couple of publications investors are buying new homes for rentals.
This is up to 5% to 6% of the total new home sales from a historic level of 2%.
And clearly in Q3 the recent silliness in Washington put a serious dent in consumer confidence and jobs while the 17-day government shutdown delayed mortgages and closings.
I'm glad that the shutdown of the debt ceiling issues were resolved at the 11th hour but I remain concerned that this will happen all over again in January.
The big news at LP in the third quarter was the announcement in early September that we will acquire Ainsworth Lumber Company.
Let me give you an update on where we stand in this transaction.
Ainsworth and LP filed the premerger notification report forms for the U.S.
government on September 17 2013.
Due to the shutdown of the U.S.
Government in October the Department of Justice asked that we withdraw our submission and refile them to give them an additional 30 days to review the transaction.
So we did withdraw the filing on October 16 and refiled on October 21.
Ainsworth and LP have also made the necessary filings in mid-September with the Canadian government under the Investment Canada Act and the Competition Act.
We have received the supplemental information request from Competition Canada that we'll respond to in the next several weeks.
Ainsworth filed their Notice of Special Meeting and Management Proxy Circular on September 24 2013.
They did hold a special meeting with shareholders on October 29 and the transaction was almost unanimously approved by shareholders.
As Sallie mentioned Ainsworth at LP's request and expense did lodge a consent solicitation from the holders be outstanding 7.5% senior secured notes due 2017 to modify the definition of change in control in the indenture.
On October 16 the majority of the bondholders approved this consent.
So as Sallie mentioned this will allow us to significantly reduce the amount of contingent debt they will need to have in place at closing.
As Sallie also mentioned we are putting in place a new $200 million bank facility that will replace our current ABL and provide additional funding to close the transaction.
As a reminder it's our intention to have cash in the balance sheet of $350 million to $400 million post the transaction.
We've got a fair amount of transition planning for the integration and once we receive necessary government approval we'll be excited to hit the ground running.
Based on all this we continue to believe that we'll complete this transaction around the first part of next year.
Other accomplishments in the quarter as Sallie mentioned we did sell our Molding business generating about $15 million in cash and a $2 million gain.
And I'm pleased to report that we are on time and on budget with our systems upgrade project and looking forward to go in live on January 1.
For the rest of this year and into 2014 I remain optimistic.
The consensus forecast for the full year now stands at about $930 000 which is a 19% increase from last year.
For 2014 the consensus is about $1.15 million which will be a further 23% increase over this year.
Both these are lower than the forecast I discussed last quarter largely a result of the factors I discussed earlier.
On the growth next year the good news for LP is that it's forecast to come more from single family than multifamily and more of our products are used in single-family starts.
Inventory of new homes for sale remains very low at about 140 000 and existing home for sale stands at 2.5 million about a 5 month supply.
This has fostered price increases that averaged 12.4% year-over-year.
Also important to our business is residential remodeling activity that jumped at the beginning of this year has stayed at these higher levels.
The public big-box retailers both raised their forecast for the full year.
Let's look forward to this quarter.
There are some important accomplishments that we'd like to have in the bag.
One we need to clear the regulatory hurdles for the Ainsworth acquisition; 2 be ready to go live on our systems upgrade project on January 1 we need to accelerate the rate of operational improvement in our Clarke County OSB mill.
And now as my friend Rick [indiscernible] would warn me 2 days is not a trend but we set several production records this last week in Clarke County so that is coming along well.
And then we will also begin press rebuild products in our projects -- in our geoprojects at Tomahawk and Roxboro to be completed early next year.
So in conclusion the housing recovery is happening but it's happening much slower than prior cycles due to the factors that we've discussed limited participation by the first time homebuyer labor shortages linked in the building cycle higher mortgage rates and tighter qualification standards weak job growth and consumer confidence that is being whipsawed by the political discord in Washington.
All in all being said we should have a good year.
We will remain agile and committed to taking actions necessary to change -- to respond to the changes in demand.
With that let me turn over to Sallie to manage the Q&amp;A.
Great.
Thank you very much Curt.
Stephanie we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess -- I can't decide where to start -- I guess maybe on the regulatory approvals I'm sorry if I kind of missed the dates and stuff but with the U.S.
and the refiling when would you expect to hear something at the latest? Well the 30-day period expires on November 20.
As you know we can get a second request prior to that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you give me the little bit more color in terms of the Clarke County ramp up what you'd estimate and the cost might have been during the third quarter or what you might expect in the fourth quarter? And what type of run rate I mean you talked about production records but only 2 days.
Kind of what type of run rate you're at currently? Well on the cost side it cost us if you look at -- the loss at that mill was about $7.5 million in the third quarter.
And that's less than it was in the second quarter.
So we made improvement.
We're currently running at about 1.1 million square feet a day.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in terms of costs as you move into the fourth quarter and maybe what you might have seen in the third quarter? I missed it if you discussed that.
Sure Gail.
We actually saw quarter-over-quarter we saw our costs increase now this is just the price aspect of it by about $5 million and probably half of that is fiber related.
However if we look at the third quarter of 2013 relative to the third quarter of 2012 the raw material costs are actually a little bit better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that increase is that something you'd expect to be sustained or increased sequentially moving into the fourth quarter? Yes.
I think overall the costs are a little bit but not significantly higher sequentially.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Curt when you talk about I guess the consensus forecast of 1.15 million starts next year when you talk to your customers I mean are you reading that level of confidence that we're going to see that big a pick-up given what they have in the backlog? Or do you have any sort of incremental color on that? Well I attended the Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies I'm on the policy advisory board so there's a lot of builders and channel partners on that.
And we went around the room and I think that the sentiment was that it's probably going to be between 1.1 million and 1.15 million.
And some of the forecasts earlier were up to 1.25 million and they certainly have backed off that.
So I think the sentiment around that room is 1.1 million to 1.15 million is a pretty good number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess given the comments in terms of the government slowdown you certainly haven't seen any sort of change in trends or activity in the fourth quarter.
No.
No not meaningful no.
I think this is implied in what Curt was saying Gail.
But the fact that we've just kicked the can down to February I think really as part of that whipsaw of consumer confidence that -- what Curt was talking about.
Your next question comes in the line of Mike Roxland with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Wondering if you can provide just any color around recent pricing trends.
It looks like pricing I think within the last week was lower.
I just want to get a little bit of color on what you're seeing in markets currently.
Well at this time of year is when building activity does typically slow down.
So this is not unusual for us to see a little withdrawal in November and December.
I think that overall pricing is going to -- it is what it is based on the transactions we have every day with our customers.
Research Division</strong> It's probably fair to say that will muddle along until you have a little bit of improvement in housing.
I think it's a little bit of improvement in housing but it's also weather-related.
So if we have an early winter or whatever happens in that regard as well.
So the Random Lengths report last week they basically said that the retailers and the channel partners are filling to existing orders.
They're not taking any inventory.
So I think that's the situation we're in.
And we do see increased activity and it will be interesting to see how Q1 comps.
Last year we saw a big upswing in inventory in Q1 and then kind of a deleveraging the inventory in April and May because we did see slower growth in the second quarter than we had in the first quarter.
So if we have a good start to the building season.
We could see inventory being added in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And all year long we've heard from homebuilders who have had orders come in less than expected as they continue to drive price over pace.
And also demand has slowed from higher rates.
What's LPX's strategy of orders only continued to rise on a modest pace? And how flexible is your system and how willing are you as the leader in North American OSB to flex that system to maintain pricing? Well we manage our system to what we're seeing demand from our customers.
So it's all based on customer demand.
So we have a weakness in our order files then we adjust our production schedules accordingly.
Research Division</strong> Is that something you do in the third quarter? Sallie I believe you mentioned that took some downtime in 3Q.
Yes absolutely.
We did that in the third quarter and we used that to do some maintenance in our mills which is of course what also caused the increase and some of the costs in our OSB segment.
Research Division</strong> How much downtime was taken in 3Q? And has that persisted into 4Q? I don't have the number in front of me.
We did take downtime in 2 of our Canadian mills.
It was about 30 to...
$50 million.
30 -- well I was talking days.
Yes about 30 days.
30 mill down days.
69? 60.
60? Well you got a new number.
All right.
Yeah.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
This is really 2...
I was just going to say we did take -- I think the real point is on how much should we take as much as did we take it and the answer to your question is yes.
So as we took downtime as we saw the demand lessening we took downtime within each of the facilities within some of the facilities.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
And then last question where was the downtime taken? Was it mostly in your U.S.
mills or your Canadian mills? Mostly the Canadian mills.
The next question comes in the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
This is Garrett Hines [ph] for Mark Connelly.
How comfortable are you with the way OSB restart capacity has entered the market? And as you think about the last couple of years do you think OSB producers have been more sensitive to the risk of flooding the market? Well I can just tell you what we have done.
We've said when we saw housing starts get to over 1 million to 1.1 million that we'd consider a restart and then the forecast as we entered into 2013 was for 1.050 million kind of numbers.
So when asked the restart of Clarke County and you brought that on late in Q2 of this year and that's ramping up now.
And then also in Q2 we started up on limited production in our Dawson Creek mill to satisfy specialty OSB demand on the West Coast.
That's helpful.
And what is your operating rate in OSB right now in the U.S.? It is -- for our facility it's probably not even for the operating facility for the quarter probably just around 75%.
Great.
And what do you think would be a normalized rate of EBITDA in Engineered Wood? Well when we've talked about Engineered Wood is that we need to get to north of 1 million starts before it's going to a positive contributor.
If we go back to 2005 2006 it was in the $45 million to $55 million range.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> You answered all the questions.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On capital allocation can you just remind us what you view as the appropriate leverage ratio in the business I guess pro forma assuming that the Ainsworth deal closes.
And just remind us on how you're thinking about potential returning cash to shareholders via share buybacks? Well I don't really think Alex our thinking on that with acquisition of Ainsworth has changed very much.
So as Curt mentioned we intend to keep $350 million to $400 million on the balance sheet and as of right now we'll use a fair amount of our cash to fund that as well as then fund Ainsworth acquisition and in fact we suspect we'll have to borrow a little bit from our Farm Credit Systems revolver to help finance that activity.
From a debt-to-cap ratio that number hasn't changed and we've historically talked about a 30% 35% number and that number hasn't changed.
Research Division</strong> Got you that's helpful.
And then on the Siding business we've seen very nice improvement in the profitability there even though starts are well below normal.
I'm curious if you can sort of talk about the earnings runway in that Siding business as your housing starts get back to that 1.5 million level.
Well you have to think about the Siding business in kind of the segment strategy because we sell into new home construction probably about 40% of that.
And then into the retail channel probably another 25% to 30%.
And the remainder goes into our repair and remodel and nonresidential structures.
So as housing recovers so if we -- say we have a 20% increase in housing from a Siding perspective that means it we'll pick up about 8% growth with the 20%.
So you don't -- your Siding doesn't respond according -- because retail does go up at that same rate retail is up 3% to 5% kind of growth rate.
And then we're seeing about a 5% growth rate in the other markets beyond retail and new home construction.
But we think it continues to have a good growth rates we've been averaging in the 8% to 10% even through the downturn.
The little markets have improved.
And I think this year we'll probably be 12% growth year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Got it and thanks for that color.
Curt just last question for me as you think about budgeting for '14 and getting your facilities ready for '14 what's the base case outlook for housing starts? I know you talked about the consensus numbers being 1.1 million to kind of 1.150 million.
I mean is that what you guys are you using? Or are you using something less more conservative than that number? We're using 1.1 million for our base case.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Stivaletti with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of follow-ups.
One given the current outlook for housing and whatnot in the current market conditions are you rethinking any of your capacity decisions? Are you changing any of that or ramping things up at a different pace or less fully ramping them up? And have you also -- have you seen much in the industry going on that -- in terms of that type of adjustment given the slower third quarter relative to the first half? Joe as you know we only talk about ourselves and I'll continue to talk about ourselves.
But we've made the decision to bring Dawson Creek up on a limited basis and we're running on a limited basis.
We brought Clarke County up our contingency was that we saw weakness that we would take -- either take some export business or we would take downtime in our Canadian mills.
And that's exactly what we did in the third quarter and we'll continue to look at that in the fourth quarter and the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick capital structure question on the -- assuming everything closes with Ainsworth are you planning to -- is your current thinking that you'll just leave those Ainsworth bonds in place for now? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally the CapEx numbers you shared that is -- that excludes Ainsworth? That's just you in terms of your forecast that you shared earlier in the call.
That is correct.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research Group.
A couple of regulatory process-related questions if you can help us on them.
Can you share -- are the authorities looking at the structural panels market given that plywood and OSB are interchangeable in most applications or are they looking at more on an OSB focus? I have no idea.
It's a structural panel market in North America and that's the way they should look at it.
But their questions are all over the place right now.
Okay.
And then did the U.S.
folks and maybe you have no idea on this either but I assume they are primarily looking at the U.S.
business and Canada is looking at the Canadian business or are they looking at the North American businesses? Is that something you can have any color on? Again they've asked questions about both -- well about all of North America.
So the questions have been pretty far ranging.
So I honestly can't tell you what they're thinking.
Okay.
And then lastly just shifting gears you mentioned current expert potential taking bids from the export market.
Is that a meaningful potential outlet? Can you maybe quantify that a little bit for us? Yes.
It has ranged from probably 15 million to 40 million square feet a quarter.
And what was it in the just ended quarter order of magnitude? It is about 2% of sales on a dollar basis about $13 million.
So at the low end of the range? Yes so it's at the low end of the range.
That's correct.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One on downtime you mentioned 30 mill days in Q3.
What is Q4 expected to be? Okay.
I think Mike revised that it was 60 mill days of what Mike...
No 30.
Never mind.
You are right 30.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So for Q4 it's...
I don't have that right in front of me.
I would assume it's going to be a little bit more because we're starting the Roxboro press rebuild.
So Roxboro will go down from up 30 days between December and January.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just on the cost increase.
And Sallie you related half of that to fibers.
Was that due to wet weather that you experienced in the U.S.
sales or is it that more just regional market? It was really across North America so nothing specific.
Yes some in the U.S and some of -- yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it wasn't one region specific.
And then just lastly on the system's upgrade project just trying to understand the main benefits of that.
And if there's any implications for your flexibility in ramping up or ramping down your production based off markets that you see at the time? Well we're not doing anything at the mill level with the systems.
This is really replacing legacy systems that we had that were customer facing and a general system that's kind of end-of-life.
So it's really just upgrading older systems.
And really our systems have just gotten to the point where it was either -- we had to do something and so it's really focused on bringing the system to a more modern era I'd say.
Paul really the way to think about it is if systems tend to have let's just call a 5- to 7-year life.
And when we would've begun to reach that point of time was when the housing would've been reaching the worst of the downturn.
And so we've been deferring spending on those systems and we just concluded this year that -- I mean we've been doing the studying [indiscernible] but it was now -- it's the time to bring us into the -- to set the systems upgrade project in place.
So it's really about improving the systems versus looking at getting a lot of efficiencies.
I think the way to look at it is it's really about the magnitude of a press rebuild.
It's time to rebuild but...
That's a great way to think about it yes.
The IT press [ph].
Your next question comes from the line of Ketan Mamtora with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about any regional differences you are seeing in your OSB price realizations? And if that has changed in the last couple of quarters I know one of your competitors was talking about weakness in the Southeast prices? Yes it's been really an usual quarter because there's been a lot of regional price differentials there's also been a lot of differentials in some of the value-added products particularly in flooring.
In flooring we had the highest differential between commodity boarded flooring of any quarter since I've been here since 1997 very unusual.
And I don't think we really have an explanation for that.
We've talked our sales guys.
We enjoy it but it's interesting that if you look at North Central Q3 to Q3 down $61.
But our average sale price is only down $15.
It really had to do with those regional differences and the premium on flooring.
It was very unusual.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you talk about how your inventories are in the system right now and how they have done in the last couple of quarters? Okay.
The question is what? I'm sorry on inventories? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Inventories in your system at the moment and considering that we're heading into a seasonally slow period.
How do you think you stand with your inventories? I think we're about where we need to be.
Our Siding business need to be about 58 to 60 days and that's about where they are.
Our EWP business is in 30 to 35 days and our OSB business is around 20 days.
So I think we're in pretty good shape.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then a couple of quick questions.
Are you seeing any uptick in pulpwood cost not just in a particular region but any significant change in pulpwood cost? And if you can remind us how your contracts are structured there? Well as we look into the next year we see a slight increase probably more related to inflation than anything else.
There are regions IP just announced the closure of a huge pulp mill in Alabama.
That will have a positive impact on the mill that is closest to that.
So we'll see an improvement there.
So that's really -- and you're exactly right that's who we compete with is the pulp-and-paper guys.
And they pull capacity off it gives us a little bit more leverage with our vendors.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And a couple of quick questions for Sallie.
You mentioned the operating rate in U.S.
was 75%? In OSB.
Research Division</strong> And this excludes the mill that are shut right now or this is across the system? Yes it excludes the Chambord [ph] facility.
Research Division</strong> And if you -- got you.
And then the $200 million Farm credit can you tell us what the interest rate will be on that at this point? Well it's a floating interest rate.
I don't remember what that -- what is it? 1.75%? 1.75%.
And the final questions will come from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quickies.
First I assume that you're probably in discussion with your channel partners in 2014 -- or sorry for 2014.
Do you have to know how many of channel partners that you currently share with Ainsworth? Yes.
That's the one area of diligence we haven't been -- that we haven't looked at at all.
Steve is we really have to look at the customers.
We know through their public reports who their largest customer is but as far as those details we won't be able to see that until the transaction closes.
Research Division</strong> I mean would you perceive that as a risk or as an opportunity? I mean that's presumably where I guess some freight synergies could be obtained.
But do you think you might lose anything if folks want to have diversity? Well I think that the logistics piece will bring us some advantages.
One of the things we've done is we did do a listening tour with our biggest customers and talked about what they like about us and what they like about how Ainsworth conducts business and try to take the best of both.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And my second was I guess a follow on on Engineered Wood.
I mean it's nice to see it finally EBITDA positive and I heard you loud and clear that you need 1 million starts for any tension in the market.
But you've alluded to kind of $45 million to $50 million of EBITDA in 2005 which is probably the peak.
But at that stage I don't think Houlton was running.
So I mean would some puts and takes shouldn't we be a bit better than $45 million once housing is leased back to normal? We will be when we get to 1.5 million plus starts absolutely.
There's a shortage of LVL I think.
Research Division</strong> What do you spend on the Houlton $100 million or something? On the construction? Research Division</strong> Yes the conversion there.
The conversion is about $120 million.
Research Division</strong> So I mean that ought to I guess if you got a 15% to 20% return contribute what $20 million.
Our pro forma is even better than that.
Right.
You're right Steve.
Our expectation would be that if we got there that we'd see a performance that was better in our EWP business than we've seen in the past because of the addition of LSL at the Houlton mill.
Great all right.
Well thank you very much.
Stephanie I think that's all the time we have for questions.
So if you could please read -- provide the replay number.
And I would like to thank everyone for participating in our call.
Mike and Becky are here to answer up any follow-up questions you may have.
And we thank you for your participation.
Hope you have a good day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
The replay will be available for 8 days.
The replay number is 45001139 and the replay number to dial-in to is 1 (888) 286-8010.
And the replay number again is 45001139.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the fourth quarter Louisiana-Pacific Corporation's earnings conference call.
My name is Brittany and I'll be the operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Sallie Bailey.
Please proceed ma'am.
Great.
Thank you very much Brittany and good morning.
Thank you for joining our conference call to discuss LP's financial results for the fourth quarter of 2013 and year-end results.
I am Sallie Bailey LP's Chief Financial Officer.
And with me today are Curt Stevens LP's Chief Executive Officer; as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley our primary Investor Relations contacts.
I'll begin the discussion with a review of the financial results for the fourth quarter of 2013 and the full year of 2013.
It will be followed by some comments on the performance of the individual segments and selected balance sheet items.
After I finish my comments Curt will discuss the general market environment in which LP has been operating; provide his perspective on our operating results; give some thoughts on the outlook for 2014 and provide an update on the status of the acquisition of Ainsworth and 8-K which was filed this morning.
As we have done in the past we have opened up this call to the public and are doing a webcast.
That webcast can be accessed at www.lpcorp.com.
Additionally to help with the discussion we have provided a presentation with supplemental information that should be reviewed in conjunction with the earnings release.
I will be referencing these slides in my comments this morning.
We filed an 8-K this morning with some supplemental information and anticipate filing our 10-K at the end of the month.
I want to remind all the participants about the forward-looking statements comment on Slide 2 of the presentation.
Please also be aware of the discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial information included on Slide 3 of the presentation.
The Appendix attached to the presentation has some of the necessary reconciliations that's been supplemented by the Form 8-K filing we made this morning.
Rather than reading these 2 statements I incorporate them with this reference.
2013 was a year of strong performance for LP.
The housing market continued to show improvement.
Single family and multifamily housing starts were 923 400 in 2013 an 18% improvement over 2012.
LP's net sales increased 23% in the same time period and adjusted EBITDA increased to $330 million a 65% improvement.
With the improving market as a bedrock let's review LP's performance in greater detail.
Please turn to Slide 4 of the presentation for a review of the fourth quarter 2013 and full year results.
We recorded net sales of $480 million for the fourth quarter of 2013 a 6% increase from the net sales reported for the fourth quarter of 2012.
Fourth quarter of 2013 we recorded a net loss from continuing operations of $19 million or $0.14 per diluted share compared to income of $59 million or $0.34 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2012.
We recorded a tax benefit for the fourth quarter of $10.5 million.
The main driver of our [indiscernible] with the release of valuation allowances during the quarter primarily related to our Canadian operation.
The adjusted loss from our continuing operations for the quarter was $7 million or a loss of $0.05 per share based on kind of normalized tax rate of 35% compared to income of $26 million or $0.18 per share in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $24 million in the quarter compared to adjusted EBITDA of $71 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
On a year-to-date basis we recorded $2.1 billion in net sales $177 million in net income and earnings per share of $1.23 as compared to net sales of $1.7 million net income of $30 million and earnings per share of $0.20 for 2012.
The GAAP tax rate for 2013 was 20%.
The lower tax rate is primarily due to the release of the valuation allowances [ph].
On a non-GAAP basis we recorded adjusted income from continuing operations of $129 million earnings per share of $0.90 based on normalized tax rate of 35% and adjusted EBITDA of $330 million an increase of $130 million over 2012.
I will now move to Slide 5 and a review of our segment results starting with OSB.
OSB recorded operating profit of $7 million on $230 million of sales in the quarter compared to operating profit of $58 million on $243 million of sales in the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the quarter we reported an adjusted EBITDA of $23 million compared to adjusted EBITDA of $68 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our volumes were higher by 17% as we brought back production at both the Dawson Creek British Columbia mill and the Clarke County Alabama mill.
Pricing for OSB was down 20% over the fourth quarter of 2012.
Random Lengths North Central 7/16 pricing was down 26% over the fourth quarter of 2012.
The decline in pricing was the most significant contributor to the low OSB performance almost $55 million.
As we've indicated in the past our pricing percent change tends to stay above Random Lengths in the market with falling prices and our pricing percent changes tend to lag in markets with improving prices.
Higher volumes helped to offset the negative impact of the lower price.
For 2013 OSB had an operating income of $230 million compared to $124 million in 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA for a couple of period was $285 million compared to $166 million in 2012.
The impact of pricing between the years was $170 million and accounted for the majority of the change.
The remaining difference was due to higher raw material costs and costs and costs associated with starting up our Clarke County and Dawson Creek mills.
Moving to Slide 6 which reports the results of our Siding business.
This segment includes our SmartSide and CanExel siding products and commodity OSB produced in our Hayward mill.
The Siding segment reported sales of $138 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 an increase of 19% from $117 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The Siding segment reported operating income of $16 million compared to $11 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 and adjusted EBITDA of $20 million an increase of $5 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Reductions in OSB pricing lowered our results by $6 million in this segment compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the quarter SmartSide average sales prices were up 4% and volumes increased 20%.
Volume increased from our SmartSide siding line due to continued penetration in several key focus markets including retail repair and remodel markets and sheds.
Improvements due to higher volumes in prices were somewhat offset by higher raw material costs license and overlays as well as additional sales and marketing expenses.
CanExel prices were flat and remained solid [ph] were up 3% in Canadian dollars mostly related to mix.
And CanExel volumes were down 9% in the quarter.
On a year-to-date basis the Siding segment reported $574 million in sales $86 million in profit and $103 million in adjusted EBITDA.
For 2012 the Siding segment reported sales of $501 million up from the $67 million and adjusted EBITDA of $83 million.
The encouragement from 2012 driven by increased volume of 15% in SmartSide and higher sales volume about $6 million related to improved OSB pricing.
Please turn to Slide 7 of the presentation where it shows the results of our Engineered Wood Products segment.
This segment includes I-Joist Laminated Strand Lumber Laminated Veneer Lumber plus other related products.
This segment also includes the sale of I-Joist and LVL products produced by the Abitibi joint venture are under a sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood.
The Engineered Wood Products segment reported sales of $72 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 up from $52 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The segment's operating loss in the fourth quarter of 2013 was $4 million as compared to a loss of $5 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the fourth quarter of 2013 adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was breakeven as compared to negative adjusted EBITDA of $2 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The volumes of I-Joist were up 36% while volumes of LVL and LSL were up 24% compared to the same quarter last year.
Pricing was up 8% in I-Joist and 3% in LVL and LSL reflecting price increases in all product lines introduced to offset rising raw material costs.
On a year-to-date basis Engineered Wood Products reported net debt of $268 million a loss of $14 million and negative-adjusted EBITDA of $1 million.
In 2012 Engineered Wood Products segment reported net sales of $213 million a loss of $14 million and negative EBITDA of $2 million.
Sales volumes in I-Joist were up 17% and volume for LVL and LSL was off about 17%.
Moving to Slide 8 of the presentation.
For the quarter our South American segment reported sales of $41 million compared to $42 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Operating income declined to $2 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to $7 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
South America's adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $5 million for the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to $10 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Volumes in Chile were down 7% while volumes in Brazil were up 16% compared to the same quarter last year.
The sales volume decrease in Chile was primarily due to increased availability of imported products which compete with our locally manufactured product.
In Brazil the higher volume was due to increased export sales as well as continued penetration of local market as compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Pricing is down 6% in Chile and up 2% in Brazil.
In local currency Chile recorded an increase of 6% and Brazil recorded 12% improvement in pricing.
For 2013 South America recorded net sales of $172 million profit of $20 million and adjusted EBITDA of $31 million.
In 2012 South America recorded net sales of $169 million profit of $18 million and adjusted EBITDA of $30 million.
Our other building product segment includes other non-operating facilities.
Overall we are about breakeven in the fourth quarter of 2013 which is slightly better than the fourth quarter of 2012.
Operating results for 2013 were a loss of $6 million as compared to a loss of $9 million in 2012.
This improvement in operation reflects the sale of our interest in U.S.
GreenFiber which occurred during the fourth quarter of 2013.
Total SG&amp;A costs were $47 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to $36 million in the same quarter of 2012.
For 2013 SG&amp;A costs were $150 million compared to $128 million for 2012.
The increase in SG&amp;A cost is primarily due to higher costs associated with our systems upgrade project sales and marketing expenses as well as costs associated with the proposed acquisition of Ainsworth.
We recorded a $2 million foreign exchange loss in the quarter compared to a $400 000 loss in the same quarter last year.
For 2013 we reported a loss of $5.3 million compared to $2.7 million loss in 2012.
Included in our operating income for the fourth quarter of 2013 were other operating charges and credits totaling $12.9 million.
The biggest driver of these charges related to an increase in our mechanic rail warranty reserves related to continuing plans for products sold during the 2003 through 2009 time period.
Net interest expense is $6 million in the quarter compared to $10 million in the fourth quarter 2012.
This reduction was primarily related to the lower interest expense we reported due to the refinancing as well as lower amortization related to our deferred debt expense.
For 2013 net interest expense was $26 million as compared to $35 million in 2012.
During the fourth quarter of 2013 we realized a noncash loss of $1.5 million related to the early debt extinguishment charge associated with the refinancing of our credit facility.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 we realized a $20 million gain on auction rate securities settlement.
Please turn to Slide 9 of the presentation.
As of December 31 2013 we had cash and cash equivalents and investments and restricted cash of $672 million.
We had working capital of $868 million and net cash of $297 million.
We generated $20 million of operating cash flow in the quarter and $243 million of operating cash flow in 2013.
We are planning to spend approximately $100 million for capital expenditures in 2014.
Approximately $50 million relates to capital maintenance and productivity improvement projects.
The remaining $50 million is targeted towards projects such as the press rebuild in our Roxboro mill the expansion of our Tomahawk siding mill and a third mill in Chile.
With that I'll turn the call over to Curt for his comments.
Thank you thank you for that review Sallie.
I know that you and -- you folks on East Coast are suffering through some bad weather.
I will tell you it's nice in Nashville today.
We didn't skirt the storm and missed this one South about 30 miles so it was pretty close but we didn't have any problem.
I hope you're all being able to stay warm.
While Sallie provided her comments both on the fourth quarter and the full year I'm going to limit my comments to our accomplishments and some of the challenges we had in 2013.
I'll talk about the current state of the housing market give you an update on the Ainsworth acquisition and give you my views on what is ahead for 2014.
LP ended the year with a total incident rate from a safety perspective of 0.54.
This is the eighth year in a row where safety performance has resulted in a total incident rate below 1.0.
Well we should all be understandably proud of this accomplishment.
I'm personally saddened that we did have a death in Brazil earlier last year.
This is a constant reminder to all of us that we can't let up on our safety focus for even a moment.
2013 was a good year by almost any standard.
As Sallie said sales were up 23% adjusted EBITDA was higher by 65% and our adjusted earnings per share almost doubled compared to last year.
We set volume sales records in many of our product lines despite housing starts being at the $925 000 level.
SmartSide siding TechShield radiant barrier our topnotch high performance flooring Laminated Strand Lumber and more.
We prepared for the housing upturn by restarting production at 2 of our facilities.
We completed the acquisition of the Peace Valley OSB mill and we announced a transaction to acquire Ainsworth Lumber Company.
Sallie mentioned we did launch a year-long effort to upgrade our IT systems in North America to a common ERP platform.
We did go live on January 1 on time and on budget.
Progress is being made every day as our employees become more familiar with the system and we take care of any bugs in the software.
This has been a massive effort and I can't say enough about the dedication of LP employees and the team from our integration partner.
I'd also like to thank our customers and vendors for their patience because there have been a few hiccups along the way.
Towards the end of the year we restructured our sales and marketing organization to deepen our relationships with key customers and to allow greater market segmentation so that we can be responsive for the right products and support.
I'm very pleased the progress we have made over the last month has been filling key roles and rearranging responsibilities.
Both our shareholders and customers should benefit from these positive changes.
So what's going on in the housing market? Here are some opinions based on my review of the data discussions with our customers and builders at the International Builders Show last week in Las Vegas conversations and presentations of the Policy Advisory Board Meeting earlier this week at the Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies and comments made by our sales force during our international sales meeting in January.
There's definitely a momentum in the housing market as both single family and multifamily housing starts were higher last year than the prior year.
There was nearly a 20% increase in 2013 and an additional 20% increase is forecasted for both this year and next year.
The single family segment is still focused on more affluent buyers as evidenced by the average square footage being the highest ever.
However as I'll talk about later we do need the first-time homebuyer to participate in this recovery.
Despite weather challenges in many parts of the country in January many of our channel partners had a better January this year than they did January of last year.
And they all say there is pent-up demand that will accelerate activity when the weather does break.
Builders are optimistic about 2014.
The number of exhibitors at the International Builders Show was up about 20% and I believe that attendance was probably 30% to 35% higher than last year.
At the Policy Advisory Board of the Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies earlier this week a couple of insights from that meeting.
The general mood on the market was upbeat and lots of comments were on pent-up demand.
Consensus estimates for this group were also in that 1.0 million start range for 2014.
There's still the strong belief that the first-time homebuyer is unlikely to participate until there is more job growth and increased availability to financing.
There was a general feeling that the price increases experienced across the country in 2013 will moderate in all but the best markets.
Builders continue to be concerned about labor shortages both skilled and unskilled workers and most participants were calling for immigration reform as a means to ease some of this tension.
We spent an entire morning discussing housing financial reform with a variety of leaders in Washington.
There does not appear to be much confidence that Congress will pass any reform on the government-sponsored entities Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae that back mortgages.
On the residential mortgage reform the Safe Harbor for the qualified mortgage has finally been issued by the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau.
But based on the discussions at the meeting it doesn't look like these 11 000 pages of related rules have made more credit available for borrowers or reduced any of the administrative burden at the banks.
Now let me take a few minutes to give you an update on where we are with the Ainsworth acquisition.
As Sallie mentioned we did issue an 8-K today with the joint release.
Since entering the arrangement agreement last September LP and Ainsworth have both made initial and supplemental filings with the Department of Justice Canadian Competition Bureau and under the ICA review process and investment review division of the Ministry of Industry in Canada.
LP and Ainsworth have engaged in a number of face-to-face discussions along with other communications with these agencies.
We continue to cooperate fully to aid the review of the proposed acquisition.
Both of us are eager to complete the acquisition and are doing whatever we can to aid the agencies to complete the reviews as quickly as possible.
In order to facilitate the continuation of our dialogue we and Ainsworth have agreed not to consummate the transaction before March 13 2014 to allow the agencies more time to continue their review.
In connection with reaching this agreement with the agencies we and Ainsworth have amended the arrangement agreement to extend the outside date for the completion of the acquisition.
We continue to refine our transition planning for the integration.
We're really in a holding pattern until we get the necessary government approvals.
We are excited to hit the ground running.
Clearly gaining regulatory approval has taken much longer than we originally anticipated.
I am certain that all of you would like a lot more detail about the discussions we were having [indiscernible] but as I am sure you can all appreciate we really are not in a position to discuss any of this much further at this time.
So I would appreciate it if you would give Mike and Becky a break and lay off until the middle of next month when we should know a little more.
As for the outlook for 2014 I remain optimistic.
As I said the consensus forecast for the year is a little over 1.1 million housing starts almost a 20% increase from last year.
For 2015 the consensus is nearly 1.4 million another 22% increase.
The inventory of new homes for sale remains very low at about 130 000 and existing homes for sale stand at just over 2 million about a 5-month supply.
This has fostered price increases that averaged 13.6% on a year-over-year basis.
The overall economy is improving as shown by the strong 4.1% real GDP in Q3 and a forecast of real GDP growth of 3% in 2014 once the employment picture is improving.
In the first week of January as I mentioned we had a sales meeting here at Nashville.
It was exciting for me to share the successes of last year and hear about their growth plans for the coming year.
The internal reorganization I talked about a few minutes ago should accelerate our penetration into key markets and customers.
So for this quarter there are a few things that we have on our plate to accomplish.
We're going to continue to make progress with the regulators so we can get the Ainsworth acquisition done.
We need to continue the stabilization of our ERP system that went live on January 1.
We have a bit of a recovery to accomplish due to the aftermath of the various polar vortexes.
We had several mills that were forced to take downtime due to shortages of propane and natural gas.
In addition the rail service in Canada so far has been abysmal and has caused us to take a significant amount of downtime in our mills as we simply ran out of space to store the OSB we were producing.
In Q1 we did schedule a fair amount of downtime related to capital projects.
I'm pleased that our folks were able to complete the Roxboro press rebuild upgrade and the replacement of the environmental system in Carthage on time and on budget in January.
Next up later this month is of the doubling of capacity at our Tomahawk SmartSide siding plant that will begin soon.
LP is ready to serve a growing housing market and we are looking forward to the increased activity.
With that let me turn it back over to Sallie for the questions and answers.
Thank you Curt.
Brittany we're ready for questions.
So if we could go to the queue.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Two things.
It looks like your overall costs especially in OSB are in pretty good shape.
And obviously Q1 is going to be bumpy but do you have a view on the broader view for 2014? And secondly just a bigger picture question.
Are we seeing any shifts in the siding market between vinyl and composites and shingle? We keep hearing that multifamily's playing a different role that McMansions are different now.
Are you seeing anything that you think is going to change the -- your market position there? Let me respond to your second question first and then I'll come back to the other one.
From a siding perspective as I mentioned we had record volumes in our SmartSide siding in 2013 despite housing starts being at 925 000.
We take that as a very meaningful market penetration probably a little bit against vinyl but more specifically against fiber cement.
So I think that's been principally where we've seen market share gains.
As you know vinyl has preferences in various parts of the country and remains the leading choice for repair remodeling because you can put it over existing siding.
So we're very pleased with the progress we're making and we're making that not only on new construction but we're also having some success in multifamily a lot of success with non-residential structures like sheds and strong retail business.
But I'll let Sallie answer the cost question.
Yes on cost for next year I think we certainly are monitoring wood.
And I think we anticipate seeing some increases in some of our wood stock.
On the raw materials plus-or-minus some increases primarily related to the resin wax area and possibly energy.
But it's -- less than 5% change in that.
Where we are going to get some improvements in our cost position is the mills that we start up last year that weren't fully utilized as we have more demand for that product and produce more product we'll get the absorption there and so it should bring down our overall cost of production.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no meaningful headwinds there.
Great.
And your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe to the last part about the mills can you just give an update -- the mills that restarted can you just give an update in terms of where you are with Clarke County just in terms of utilization and also are you still seeing kind of incremental start-up cost of reassembling this past that? And I guess while talking about Clarke County.
Last quarter I think you've referenced potential the benefit as IP shut their Courtland mill have you started to see -- in terms of wood cost have you started to see any benefits there? Well let me talk about Clarke County first.
Clarke County is improving.
We are about on our plan for the first quarter so far.
That has production ramping up for the year.
I think we need to average about 1.5 million for the full year a day.
And we've had days we've done better than that in the first quarter so that mill continues to make progress.
In the fourth quarter we did have higher cost in that mill and we also had some downgraded products that cost us a little bit so our costs were higher in the fourth quarter.
But I'm happy with the progress that we're making now.
As far as the wood cost the shutdown by IP affects more of our Hanceville mill and we have seen some relaxation a pressure on wood in that area.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Curt can you just give some perspective as to how you think your customers are positioned this year for the building season and maybe compare it to how they were positioned last year at this time? Well the anecdotal information from our salespeople and what we and the -- our partners that we talked to at the Builder Show is that there are very lean inventories right now.
Part of that is our own doing because we can't get rail cars in Canada so we have been lower on shipment to customers coming out of Canada.
I think that they're all talking about pent-up demand.
Almost every customer I talked to said that the weather has held back the takeaways from their operations but they really felt there was a demand there.
So I think we'll see a pretty rapid channel fill starting as soon as the weather breaks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you possibly quantify some of the financial impact of the weather issues you've seen this quarter or is it something you think you could catch up with this weather we still have a quarter left if weather normalized tomorrow? Well I can't give you numbers on it but I can tell you that we've had about 30 mill down days so far this year in Canada related to the railcar issue where we simply just couldn't put any more wood anywhere else from the mill so we had to shut down.
Now the difficulty from a channel perspective and Rick and his team have been talking to our customers about it is you can't gain that production back you can't run more than 24/7 so there's -- there could be some short-term issues on that that could go into the spring season.
And your next question comes from the line of Mike Roxland with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I'm not sure if you're able to comment on this but I will ask the question anyway.
Based on the type of questions that you're getting from the DOJ and the Canadian authorities regarding the Ainsworth acquisition can you give us any indication as to what their biggest concern is? And is there anything that you think you can do to allay their concerns to get the deal done maybe a little bit sooner? I'm very hesitant to do that because I'm sure our friends from the DOJ and Competition Bureau are on this call so I'm going to be very careful to answer that.
We are being as responsive as we can to their request.
And I think that's really all I can say and that's both true for us as well as for Ainsworth.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
I understand Curt.
In the press release I guess you mentioned that you also curtailed one other facility due to market conditions if I've read that correctly.
What facility -- is that referring to some of the issues that you have up in Canada or did you actually take out a facility just due to weak [indiscernible] demand? And are there any other potential facilities that you could look to and definitely idle if demand does not pick up? Mike I think that's reflecting the Chambord facility that's been curtailed there are no new curtailments.
The one that's been curtailed since -- for a number of years.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the last question I have was just on cost.
Curt you mentioned in terms of cost that labor availability really being -- in particular labor being an issue for the home builders I think you actually mentioned labor being an issue also for your own operations either a lot of people left the industry or back to their home country during the downturn.
Can you give us a sense of how much labor increased year-over-year in 4Q and whether you've seen any improvement in the labor availability? And comment also about what you've done what the industry has done to foster or to bring back workers to the industry? Well the struggle for us has generally been in the skilled trade so it's been the electricians process control mill rides in that area.
And we have frankly we've been backfilling with contract labor because we can't hire quick enough to keep those fully staffed.
Most of the areas we operate we compete with the oil and gas sector.
And they they simply pay higher wages than we can pay.
And so the things that we're responding to is we're responding to grow your own electricians grow your own mill rides.
So we're putting in our own [indiscernible] programs we're partnering with junior colleges and trade schools and areas where our mills are located to get people so we're doing all those kinds of things.
And then from the industry as a whole we're struggling with drivers and I think as everybody is and we're struggling with loggers.
And so we do have a place a core logger program where we will commit to a select group of loggers and keep them working through good times and bad times.
So that's how we're trying to address that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just the last question for me for Sallie.
For the first 3 quarters of 2013 SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales has been averaging around 6.5%.
In 4Q that spiked about to 9.5% a little over that.
What drove the increase and how should we be thinking about SG&amp;A as a percent of sales on a go-forward basis? What really drove that increase are the costs associated with the Ainsworth acquisition.
And I think you should anticipate looking forward what will be closer to the first second and third quarter on a normalized basis but -- while we're still working with our -- going through the regulations that you're going to continue to see some kind of spike.
It was in the fourth -- for the full year that costs associated with Ainsworth acquisition was around $6 million and the majority of that was in the fourth quarter.
And your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> Coming on the last up-cycle we saw -- certainly OSB really gained most of its share versus plywood in the new housing construction business.
And as you know that area has been probably a lot weaker and continues to be versus repair and remodeling.
And I was just wondering have we seen a shift in OSB back or shall I say a share gain in the channel of selling to people who are repairing or remodeling their homes given that that seems to be an area that's stronger than new housing at least has been so far.
Not noticeably Chip.
When we look at our retail sales our retails sales from a volume perspective are up about the same store-to-store that Lowe's and Home Depot are reporting 3 to 6 kind of percent.
So the growth is really coming in the housing.
LLC</strong> Got you.
Got you.
When you look at your capital spending last year -- was $75 million in '13.
How does that look right now and has it changed in terms of how you think about '14 especially since we don't have the same head of steam as we had last year in your markets.
And could you give us a little bit of a range and this is my assumption not yours but let's just say you owned Ainsworth in the back half of the year kind of what could the sensitivity be to that CapEx number? Well Chip I don't think we're going to speculate yet on what the capital plans for Ainsworth will be but in terms of our capital plans for LP we're anticipating spending around $100 million this year which is an increase of that $25 million from 2013.
And all of that increase would be related to growth projects or as Curt mentioned in his comments with the press rebuild at Roxboro we had the environmental technology the RTO at Carthage and now that we've seen some improvement in our cash flow we're going back and we'll be able to gain those types of projects and of course the Tomahawk expansion which Curt also mentioned and the third mill in Chile.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And then I guess the last question just to maybe underscore the competitive nature of your business.
I just noticed in Engineered Wood Products year-over-year your volumes were just up massively 24% to 36% with higher pricing and your operating loss was basically the same.
Can you tell us what's going on there? Sure.
That's all related to the increased raw material prices.
Remember in the first half of the year in particular in particular the Engineered Wood Products group had to deal with the higher raw material costs associated with I-Joist which is made out of the OSB.
LLC</strong> Of course got you.
I would expect those cost to go down I guess in coming -- in the next quarter or 2.
Well I think that's why you see some improvement in the fourth quarter.
And your next question comes from the line of Joe Stivaletti with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the industry supply side of the equation.
You talked about forecast for volumes to be up close to 20% next year in terms of housing starts.
So I was wondering if you could talk about what you're seeing and expecting on the supply side in North America.
Well Joe I'd be happy to tell you what we're doing because as you know we did restart Clarke County which is ramping up and I think that will be running.
Under our plans it would be running about 65% of capacity for the full year with a lot of that volume weighted towards the back half of the year.
Dawson Creek we're still running at a very limited shifting pattern so we can add additional capacity into Dawson Creek.
Swan Valley has taken a fair amount of downtime related to the rail issue so hopefully we'll be able to run that during the spring run up.
And then in Maniwaki we continue to look at export opportunities there as we're not fully utilizing that for North America.
And then there was a question earlier the 1 mill that we don't have started yet is Chambord and I really don't have any plans this year to think about that.
Research Division</strong> So if you pull that together what basically -- what would your capacity change by in 2014 based on what you just walked through? Well Clarke County because we started up in April and as we talked about earlier it's got a miserable start-up.
Clarke County will probably tripling in volume of what we had last year probably about 150 million feet and will probably triple.
Dawson Creek I would anticipate because that one also start up late April probably have a doubling of the volume that came out of there.
And then I would guess both in Swan and Maniwaki we're probably looking at 20% kind of increases.
So if you added all that up it's probably another 600 million square feet.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess just for the overall industry I mean you don't -- I mean are you expecting if we see this type of close to 20% growth in volume of housing starts you would expect it to be a considerably tighter year or I just wondered about what your perspective was in terms of industry overall the outlook there.
Well if we're going to go from 925 000 to 1.1 million that's 175 000 housing starts.
That should equate to a demand of right around 1.8 billion to 1.9 billion square feet of additional demand.
Because the rule of thumb is 1.1 billion square feet for every 100 000 housing starts.
And your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research Group.
First just one quick clarification.
So basically if housing starts go up by 20% then what's the demand? It kind of goes up 10%-ish 10% to 12% is that about right using the numbers you...
I think I look at it the other way.
Just take the number of housing starts and multiply every 100 000 as 1.1 and you can figure out what the incremental demand is in OSB.
Okay great.
And then on the new timing agreement if this is a fair question can you just share with us whether this agreement was initiated by you and Ainsworth or what was it initiated by the regulatory agencies? Well I think the fact that we have agreement in place it was mutually agreed to.
There were discussions around on how we continued to assist the DOJ and Competition at Canada and making progress towards improving these acquisitions.
Okay.
And then just lastly I know you made the comments on your sense that the inventory channel was relatively lean at least with your customers so you probably built up some inventory.
And yet if you look at fourth quarter production for the industry it was actually as high as it was in the third quarter and it was up substantially versus a year ago.
More so than you would have thought based on what was happening with housing starts demand would have increased.
So I guess when you look at the amount of OSB that was produced in the latter part of last year does that not kind of suggest that actually there's quite a lot of OSB out there at least coming into the year? Again I'm relying on our sales force coming back to us and talking to customers.
And we're not seeing -- we're not hearing from either our salespeople or customers that they bought inventory.
And your next question comes from the line of Sean Steuart with TD Securities.
Just one question.
South America is the weakest results we've seen from that segment in I think at least a couple of years.
Maybe just going through some of the contributing factors in more detail.
You touched on I guess imports into Chile and few other factors.
Is there more happening there than that? It's a pretty steep decline in results there.
I think there's 2 things.
One the competitive pressure that Sallie talked about is certainly a major factor there.
We also had a strengthening of the U.S.
dollar so there was some translation that have affected both results.
Not changing your thinking on the growth strategy there long term no? No.
No.
In fact as Sallie mentioned we're doing preliminary planning on a third mill there.
Yes.
But pricing difference.
You have to remember the Chilean price really is impacted by what's going on here in North America.
And so think about the pricing environment that exists in North America in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus the pricing environment that exists in North America in the fourth quarter of 2013.
And that gives you some -- the dynamics that would cause the Chilean results to reflect that as well.
And your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just first of all I want to come back on the weather.
Curt you've mentioned natural gas and propane.
And I just -- I want to get a sense of how big an issue that might be in the first quarter? Propane in particular is up sharply but natural gas is also up.
Well for us we really only use that on our pollution control basement [ph] equipment.
We don't use it as part of our process or if we can't run your pollution control equipment you can't run your mill.
And so it primarily affected our siding mill we had several outages in siding.
We were tied to use natural gas but we only use propane when we can't get natural gas and so we had -- they were diverting natural gas to household for home heating and then there was a storage of propane.
And who knows whether it's true or not what I heard the corn crop was very big and it takes a lot of natural gas and propane to dry up the corn that's what I heard.
So -- relatively limited to a couple of mills in the late-stage associated with siding.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
Another question -- actually it was also related to natural gas.
If gas stays elevated what's the effect on that on kind of your rise in the cost rise in prices because a lot of that stuff is natural gas derivatives I believe.
It's not a -- it is a derivative but the biggest ones are benzene and phenol the biggest drivers.
[indiscernible] oil.
So natural gas has an impact but it's not as big as the derivative the old derivatives.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
Side question can you give us the operating rate at that Brazilian mill right now? I don't have it in front of me I'd be guessing.
I would guess that was probably running at about 80%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's a little better than I might have thought.
And how -- about how much of that gets exported Curt? I don't have that in front of me either.
I don't have it in front of me probably 1/2 of it.
1/3 to 1/2.
Trending downwards because we're selling more of it in Brazil.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And just generally in Brazil I think the big issue down there has just been kind of getting kind of builders and building codes modified so that people could use OSB.
Can you give us just a 60-second update on that? Well we sold OSB in to over twice as many homes in 2013 than we did in 2012 so we continue to make progress there.
We've probably got half a dozen to a dozen builders who are now qualified to use our building systems so we continue to make good progress there.
Mark about 30% of our Brazilian sales in the quarter were exported.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thanks Sallie.
And then the last one Curt just sort of any change in view on the Engineered Wood business and what it's going to take to move that business to profitability? I think in the past you talked about 1 million or 1.1 million starts in kind of a threshold number.
I still think that's a good number.
And as Sallie say we made progress towards the latter half of the year.
I think we are EBITDA break -- we were EBITDA positive in the second half of the year in that business and that's a positive sign.
That was relaxation of raw materials.
We also did put in a couple of price increases during the year to recover those higher raw materials costs.
We only had significant increases in our volume on Laminated Strand Lumber volume so we're continuing to make progress there [indiscernible] path for a recovery.
Research Division</strong> Are you putting any more capital in to that business right now? Well we're maintaining our mills and we haven't made any -- obviously we're turning more capacity so M&amp;A in capacity increases there but we did make an investment in our holding [ph] mill that will allow us to make limited quantities of OSB at that mill which was always the plan but we didn't need that and now we've seen opportunity for some high-quality foreign products.
And your last question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick cleanups.
Just on poor rail service I think you called it abysmal Curt.
Is that more weather-related or is that just strictly on service levels? Well I'm going to be in your city next week with the Forest Park Association in Canada that's a major item on our agenda.
As you know we've been trying to fight for service level agreements with the CN and CP for a long time.
There is a rail review in Canada coming up in 2016.
I really don't want to wait until then.
This has been a problem.
I think weather was clearly a problem in January and into February.
But I also think it's how they're staging their prevent what equipment they're making available.
They're focused on utilization of equipment rather than satisfying customers from my perspective.
So just to give you an example at Peace Valley we need 90 cars a day.
We went 2 weeks with 0.
And then the third week we got 30.
So you just can't run the mill when that happens.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you could give us an idea of operating rates in Canada on the OSB side versus the U.S.
as a result of that? Well that was an impact this quarter which obviously I haven't reported the results for this quarter.
We didn't have rail service issues on the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in South America you referenced increased imports in to that.
Where is that? Is that coming from North American competitors and is that having any effect I guess it's not having any effect on your plans to put in a third mill.
It is coming from North American competitors.
And as Sallie said they look at it opportunistically when they have excess capacity that they could take South from their operations and make a contribution margin they're doing that.
It's not dissimilar to what we're doing out of Northern Quebec now on our Maniwaki mill.
And we'll take extra capacity over into Eastern Europe and Russia that will still make a contribution margin.
I will now turn the call over to Sallie Bailey for closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you Brittany.
If you could please provide the replay number we would appreciate it.
And I'd like to thank everybody for participating in our call.
And as always Mike and Becky are here to help answer any follow-up questions you may have.
So I hope you have a great day and we appreciate your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the presentation for today's conference.
You may now all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter 1 2014 Louisiana-Pacific Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Patrick and I will be your moderator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Sallie Bailey Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please proceed.
Thank you very much Patrick and good morning.
Thank you for joining our conference call to discuss LP's financial results for the first quarter of 2014.
I am Sallie Bailey LP's Chief Financial Officer and with me today are Curt Stevens LP's Chief Executive Officer; as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley our primary Investor Relations contact.
I'll begin the discussion with a review of the financial results for the first quarter of 2014.
This will be filed by some comments on the performance of individual segments and selected balance sheet items.
After I finish my comments Curt will discuss the general market environment in which LP has been operating provide his perspective on our operating results for the first quarter of 2014 give some thoughts on the outlook for the remainder of 2014 and provide an update on the status of the planned Ainsworth acquisition.
As we have discussed in the past we have opened up this call to the public and are doing a webcast.
That webcast can be accessed at www.lpcorp.com.
Additionally to help with the discussion we provided a presentation or supplemental information that should be reviewed in conjunction with the earnings release.
I will be referencing these slides in my comments this morning.
We have also filed an 8-K this morning with some supplemental information and we'll file our 10-Q later this morning.
I want to remind all the participants about the forward-looking statement comment on Slide 2 of the presentation.
Please also be aware of the discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial information included on Slide 3 of the presentation.
The appendix attached to the presentation is some of the necessary reconciliations that has been supplemented by the Form 8-K filing we made this morning.
Rather than reading these 2 statements I incorporate them with this reference.
Market conditions were difficult in the first quarter.
Seasonally adjusted housing starts in March of 2014 were 9% below the seasonally adjusted housing starts for March of 2013 what has certainly appears to have been a contributor in the lower demand.
That said we are pleased to see that Random Lengths stood up by double digits in all but one region last Friday and the mid-week plant was also up in all but one region.
Now please turn to Slide 4 of the presentation for a review of the first quarter of 2014.
We reported net sales of $445 million for the first quarter of 2014 a 16% decrease from the net sales reported for the first quarter of 2013 primarily driven by the lower OSB prices.
In the first quarter of 2014 we recorded a net loss from continuing operations of $14 million or $0.10 per diluted share compared to income of $65 million or $0.45 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2013.
The adjusted loss from continuing operations for the quarter was $7 million or $0.05 per share loss based upon a normalized tax rate of 35% compared to income of $58 million or earnings per share of $0.40 in the first quarter of 2013 using the normalized 35% tax rate.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $23 million in the quarter compared to adjusted EBITDA of $120 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Please turn to Slide 5 and we'll begin the review of our segment result beginning with OSB.
OSB reported an operating loss of $2 million on $195 million of sales in the quarter compared to operating profit of $98 million on $287 million of sales in the first quarter of 2013.
For the quarter we reported adjusted EBITDA of $12 million compared to adjusted EBITDA of $109 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Our volumes were higher by 6% as we started up our Dawson Creek British Columbia and Clarke County Alabama mills on limited production late in the second quarter of 2013.
Pricing in our OSB segment was down 37% compared to the first quarter of 2013.
Random Lengths North Central 7/16 pricing was down 47% compared to the first quarter of 2013.
This decline in pricing was the most significant contributor to the lower OSB performance almost $115 million.
As we've indicated in the past our pricing percent changes tend to stay above Random Lengths in the market with falling prices and our pricing percent changes tend to lag in markets with improving prices.
Moving onto Slide 6 which reports the results of the Siding business.
This segment includes our SmartSide and CanExel siding products and commodity OSB produced at our Hayward mill.
The Siding segment reported sales of $144 million in the first quarter of 2014 an increase of 7% from $134 million reported in the first quarter of 2013.
The Siding segment reported operating income of $19 million compared to $21 million in the first quarter of 2013 and recorded adjusted EBITDA of $24 million a decrease of $1 million compared to the first quarter of 2013.
Reduction in OSB pricing lowered our Siding business segment results by $3 million.
For the comparable quarter SmartSide average sales prices were up 6% and volumes increased 12%.
Volume increase in our SmartSide siding line due to continued penetration in several key focus markets including retail repair and remodel markets and sheds.
Improvements due to higher volume prices were somewhat offset by the additional sale and marketing expenses.
CanExel prices were down 8% due to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar as a majority of these sales are denominated in Canadian dollars.
In terms of Canadian dollars CanExel prices were down 1% roughly related to mix.
CanExel sales volumes were up 13% due to increased sales through our promotional winter buy program.
Please turn to Slide 7 of the presentation which shows the results from our Engineered Wood Products segment.
This segment includes I-Joist Laminated Strand Lumber Laminated Veneer Lumber some OSB and other related products.
This segment also includes the sale of I-Joist and LVL products produced by the Abitibi joint venture under our sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood.
The Engineered Wood Product segment reported sales of $66 million in the first quarter of 2014 up from $63 million in the first quarter 2013.
The segment's operating loss in the first quarter of 2014 was $3 million as compared to a loss of $4 million in the first quarter of 2013.
For the first quarter 2014 adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $2 million as compared to breakeven in the first quarter of 2013.
The improvement in adjusted EBITDA was related to higher pricing to have increased utilization of our Houlton OSL facility as we've produced limited amounts of OSB.
Volumes of I-Joist were up 3% volumes of LVL and LSL were up 2% compared with same quarter last year and pricing was up 11% in I-Joist and 8% in LVL and LSL reflecting price increases implemented during 2013.
Moving onto Slide 8 of the presentation.
For the quarter our South American segment recorded sales of $37 million compared to $45 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Operating income declined to $4 million in the first quarter of 2014 compared to $6 million in the first quarter of 2013.
South America's adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $7 million for the first quarter of 2014 compared to $9 million reported in the first quarter of 2013.
Volumes in Chile were down 18% while volumes in Brazil were up 7% compared to the same quarter last year.
The sales volumes decrease in Chile was primarily due to reduced production due to maintenance work performed during the quarter.
In Brazil the higher volume was due to increased export sales as well as continued penetration of local markets as compared to the first quarter of 2013.
In U.S.
dollars pricing was down 13% in Chile and up 5% in Brazil.
In local currency Chile recorded an increase of 2% and Brazil recorded 11% improvement in pricing.
Total selling general and administrative costs were $41 million in the first quarter of 2014 compared to $35 million in the same quarter last year.
This increase in cost was primarily due to higher sales and marketing costs associated with our Siding business increased cost on our Information Technology area associated with our systems upgrade and costs associated with our proposed acquisition of Ainsworth.
We recorded a $4.3 million foreign exchange loss in the quarter compared to a $700 000 loss in the same quarter last year.
Interest expense net was $5 million in the quarter compared to $7 million in the first quarter of 2013.
This reduction was primarily related to the lower interest expense associated with our Chilean debt as we reduced the outstanding balance during 2013.
Additional reductions were due to lower amortization of debt costs due to the refinancing we completed during the fourth quarter 2013.
Turning to Slide 9 of the presentation.
As of March 31 2014 we had cash cash equivalents investments and restricted cash of $567 million.
Working capital of $843 million and net cash of $194 million.
We used $73 million of operating cash flow in the quarter an amount similar to the cash used in the first quarters of 2011 and 2012.
Historically we have used cash in the first quarter to fund investments and inventory and receivables.
The operating cash flow was lower than the first quarter of 2013 primarily due to lower operating result caused by lower OSB prices.
We are planning to spend approximately $100 million for capital expenditures in 2014.
We used $24 million of cash for capital expenditures in the first quarter and among the projects which were successfully completed were our Roxboro North Carolina OSB mill price rebuild the RTO rebuild at our Carthage Texas mill and the Tomahawk siding mill 50% expansion that is currently under commissioning process.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Curt for his comments.
Thank you Sallie for that review of the quarter.
My comments today as Sallie mentioned will focus on accomplishments and challenges in the quarter talking about the current state of the housing market give you an update on the Ainsworth acquisition and provide you with my views of what is ahead for the rest of this year.
The first quarter we had a safety total instance rate 0.40 for the first quarter.
In the quarter we were recognized by the AF&amp;PA as the company with the best overall safety record 2013 and we also celebrated several safety milestones throughout the company with the highlight being 2.25 million hours -- safe hours in our Carthage Texas mill over a 7-year period.
As Sallie talked about weather was a big story in Q1 throughout North America.
This not only affected building activity in demand for our products but also created havoc with the truck and rail transportation systems.
As a result we had higher finished goods inventories than planned and we had to curtail operations at several of our facilities and were late on shipments to our customers.
While getting better rail service particularly in Canada has not yet returned to normal.
Despite the weather we did post positive adjusted EBITDA in each one of our segments while significantly lower OSB prices compared to last year hurt our earnings I was very pleased that our SmartSide siding products continued to show strong growth with this quarter setting a volume record compared to any other Q1 in the history.
On our last call I did mention that we went live on January 1 with our new ERP system.
The magnitude of changes to our control operations accounting and finance customer and vendor interactions cannot be overstated.
We've all heard the horror stories associated with these types of conversions and I now have a better understanding.
Despite these challenges the dedicated efforts of our employees and integration partner as well as the understanding support from our customers and vendors that we are making progress every day and we did in fact closed the quarter on the new system quite an accomplishment.
All of us are looking forward to taking full advantage in these new capabilities as we get the systems fine-tuned and fully operational.
Sallie did talk a little bit about capital but that's the first of the year we have completed significant capital projects at 4 of our mills and these were completed on-time on-budget and with no injuries to either LP employees or the many contractors who are on our sites.
The highlight for me was the completion of the 50% capacity increase at our Tomahawk SmartSide mill that will allow us to continue to meet our customers' demands for these products.
For the housing market there's little doubt it's improving but the recent news makes it very difficult to determine the pace of the recovery.
U.S.
housing starts for March were at an adjusted annual rate of 946 000 higher than February but below March of last year.
Permits in March were at 990 000.
The Case-Shiller Index to home prices was up 13.4% in March compared to a year ago.
According to the National Association of Realtors contracts to purchase previously own U.S.
homes climbed to March for the most than almost 3 years this means that residential real estate started to stabilize entering the spring selling season.
The pending home sales index rose 3.4% the most since May of 2011 and the first gain in 9 months.
The inventory of new homes for sale remains very low at about 150 000 and there are only 2 million existing homes for sale and that's probably overstated given the housing obsolescence on many of these properties.
Residential remodeling in February was up almost 10% from a year ago.
And builders remain optimistic about 2014 but they do have concerns about 4 areas: first is availability of labor; second is the lack of affordable loss; the third is the future of Fannie and Freddie; and the fourth is mortgage access primarily for the first time homebuyer.
Let me now take a few minutes to just talk about Ainsworth and give you an update on where we are.
I know that all of you are frustrated that our comments have been somewhat limited but I'm sure that you understand that when dealing with these regulatory agencies the outcome is a culmination of a process that has lots of twists and turns plus I can assure you that you're not the only ones that are frustrated by this.
As I stated in the last call what I'm going to tell you today is really all we can say at this time and I appreciate once again restraining yourselves from questioning Mike and Becky with more detail.
Considering the agreement early last September we have been in regular contact with the Department of Justice and our trust division and the Canadian Competition Bureau on antitrust matters.
Together we have provided a significant amount of information and analysis to these agencies engaged in a number of face-to-face and telephone discussions and are currently operating under a time extension in our efforts to convince the agencies that the transaction should be permitted to proceed.
At this point in time the regulators have indicated that they will not allow the current transaction to proceed.
Therefore to complete the transaction under its current terms we may have to litigate with the regulators.
LP and Ainsworth continue to explore other options with the regulators that could invest divestitures that go beyond what was contemplated in the arrangement agreement.
This of course would require changes to the arrangement agreement that would need approval from both boards and the Ainsworth shareholders.
There's no assurance that such revised deals can be consummated.
While this has been a much much more difficult time-consuming and expensive process than originally contemplated we trust that you appreciate that we've been working very hard on this and that our ultimate course of action will be driven by what we believe to be the best interest of our shareholders.
For 2014 I do remain optimistic the consensus forecast for 2014 now stands at $1.1 million about a 19% increase from last year.
For 2015 the consensus is at $1.37 million another 25% increase.
Well I certainly hope the forecasts are accurate the weather in the first quarter lack construction activity which may make it difficult to reach that $1.1 million this year.
Earlier this week and I think again today Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen made the following comment "One cautionary note though is that readings on housing activity a sector that has been recovering since 2011 have remained disappointing so far this year and will bear watching." I certainly agree with that.
We are watching that.
The overall economy is improving although Q4 was revised downward to a 2.6% growth.
The forecasted real GDP growth for 2014 is at 2.8%.
Consumer confidence took an unexpected bounce in early April to 82.6% attributed to positive feelings about job prospects and better weather.
The 30-year fixed-rate mortgage had bounced around the 4.3% range since the Fed comment last May.
Also it has been reported there's a slight easing of lending standards.
For Q2 there are several things we'd like to accomplish this quarter.
First and foremost we'd want to make progress with the regulators so we can get the Ainsworth acquisition done continue to stabilize and improve on our ERP system and work with our transportation partners to catch up on late shipments and bring our operations back to normal.
LP stands ready to serve at the growing housing market and we're looking forward to the increased activity.
With that let me turn it back over to Sallie for questions and answers.
Great.
Thank you Curt.
Patrick we'd like to go to the queue for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Michael Roxland with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is actually John Babcock's sitting in for Michael Roxland.
I just have a couple of questions for you.
Obviously refraining from saying anything about or rather asking about anything regarding Ainsworth.
But first of all with 2014 housing forecast coming in given the weather and lower affordability and other factors how are you guys thinking about OSB capacity and utilization? And on top of that also has LPX adjusted its production schedule with housing not materializing as expected? Well let me answer the second one.
As I said we did have quite a bit of disruption particularly in Canada during the first quarter due to the rail problems.
So we did take quite a significant amount of downtime in our Canadian mills and we also had -- believe it or not -- we had rail problems in the south due to the snow and ice that we had down there.
So we took additional downtime at our Clarke County mill.
So yes we did take a fair amount of downtime in the first quarter.
In fact I think our volumes were lower than they were in the fourth quarter of last year.
As we look forward I think I've talked about this in the past we used to do budgeting and then we did forecasting and now we do now casting so we are adjusting our production schedule based on-demand on a regular basis and we'll continue to do so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And now can you give us a sense of how much downtime you guys had during the quarter? It's about 40 days.
About 40 mill days of downtime in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what was the operating rate for that? Well we don't include the Chambord mill which is still shutdown.
We operated at about 81%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And now what do you got to do -- do you mind providing like what you guys anticipate having for downtime in the second quarter? Well the only downtime that we -- my -- talking about is we do have about 5 days related to capital projects.
But other than that we're not going to provide any more information.
Research Division</strong> Okay sounds good.
And then also have you -- with some of the recent pilot curtail announcements including Boise Smith [ph] for Oregon mill the Ferry's mill in Mill City Oregon and also the recent explosion at Georgia Pacific's mill have you guy’s experienced better OSB demand from that? Those aren't OSB mills.
Research Division</strong> Oh sorry.
Plywood.
It wouldn't be significant so I can't tell you that we've seen anything as a result of those accidents.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Could you give us a little more detail on the $7 million? And I guess just a higher pre-tax GAAP between what you or -- distance between what you consider the non -- I'm sorry the non-GAAP adjusted loss of a $0.05 a share and $0.10? I know you mentioned there's some Ainsworth expense but do you have the pre of the elements of that difference? Yes.
Sure.
I don't have -- I can tell you what they are at a high-level and then you can follow-up check with Becky.
But Ainsworth would be a big piece of that and then there's a foreign exchange loss associated with some Canadian dollars that we bought in anticipation of the Ainsworth transactions and being completed last year and was a decrease in the Ainsworth -- I'm sorry with the decrease in the value of the U.S.
Canadian dollar relative to the U.S.
dollar we took a hit on that this quarter.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And will at least ask this -- I don't know if you'll answer but do you think we'll know which way you guys will move on this by the time of the next quarterly call in terms of how you would proceed regarding Ainsworth? Well let me just give you -- there is some timing in the agreement that we have.
We did an extension of the arrangement agreement that takes us through June 4.
We have the ability to unilaterally extend that for another 45 days which takes us to the middle of July.
Absent that we would have to have an agreement with Ainsworth to extend beyond the middle of July.
LLC</strong> I see that's helpful.
And the last thing is just in terms of your -- I know in mid-April you all had some -- you talked a little bit about your plans of adding shifts or maybe what you could do given I guess the slow start to the year with the winter weather and everything are you proceeding as you maybe had thought you would back in December/January or have you slowed back in terms of some of the shifts you might add or the -- let's say how fast Clarke County comes up? Well we started making that adjustment over last summer and we're continuing to look at that on a weekly basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
As you think about all of these restarts and then you -- we think back over the years we spent a lot of time in the last 10 years adding capacity to the market.
How are these restarts entering the market relative to history? Are you seeing bigger swings than usual in inventory? Are you seeing more deals getting cut? Well from a -- the restart -- the disruption that we saw in the first quarter frankly was all transportation related.
I wouldn't say it was an impact on the restart.
For us what we have said is Dawson Creek we brought up on a limited shift basis to support our TechShield and our foreign products principally.
And then Clarke County we've been on a steady ramp since this summer we're continuing the ramp-up.
Most of the downtime that we take is in Canada.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just one minor question.
You had talked awhile back about shipments to Asia and targeting a couple of million a month.
Can you tell us whether that's still your target or is there anything bigger we can look forward to? We look at that opportunistically.
I would say that the shipments out of North America are principally going to Eastern Europe and Russia not to Asia from our company.
Some of the others that you've heard do ship more to Asia than we do.
But our focus has been on the Eastern Europe and Russia.
And we do do some shipment out of Brazil into Asia.
Research Division</strong> And is that number moving in any particular direction? It improved.
It improved in the fourth quarter and first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First question would you be able to quantify what the impact of weather was on the quarter and if things are normalizing weather-wise you're going to see some of that cost to reverse as you move through the year? It's hard to quantify.
I mean we've had late shipment to customers and often that has a pricing impact.
Probably the one number we could quantify is we spent about $2.7 million converting the truck.
So we did have extra logistics costs that we couldn't pass on to our customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then on the EWP side so one of the key players is bringing on new capacity or I shouldn't say new but restarting capacity.
Do you have any thoughts on how that may impact supply and demand as we move through 2014 and EWP? I think you'd have to ask them why they restarted it but we're expecting to have an increase in housing starts and so I think that they are growing nicely[ph].
It was better in Q1 of this year than was Q1 of last year even though housing starts were down.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then more of a medium- to longer-term question if we look at all the new OSB capacity that's been announced for restart and assuming that it comes online what do you think the housing start level needs to be in order to be able to absorb that capacity? And then maybe looking at it a little bit longer than that assuming that all the idle capacity in OSB gets restarted what housing start level do you think you could be at in order for that to be absorbed? Do you have any thoughts on those questions? Well the rule of thumb for just housing is 1.1 billion square feet of OSB per 100 000 housing starts.
So if you think that over I think the idle capacity today that has not been restarted is probably somewhere in the 1.5 billion range on what's started and isn't fully running it's probably another 2 billion.
I would say you need roughly 300 000 more housing starts to absorb that.
That was just 1.3 million we're supposed to be 1.37 million next year.
So starting at the end of next year early in 2015 coming up to some limitations which would require restarting the new -- the other mill that were idle.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research Group.
I realized Curt you hadn't said anything additional to what you've already said on the Ainsworth situation but just wanted to clarify make sure I understood it correctly.
So basically are there kind of 3 alternatives now as one you either litigate; two you walk away or three you continue to work with the regulators but that would also require a change in the initially contemplated transaction? Is that a fair summary or is there -- are other options too? The fourth is they can give up.
The regulators.
Well presumably they would do that after you started the litigation process.
But yes I think those are the 3 options.
Okay fair enough.
And I'll throw one other.
The new ERP system can you quantify potential upside from getting that system in place? We think that we will get -- and these are very high level numbers but we ought to get $1 sales price by having better analytic tool and we ought to get $1 in cost.
That's kind of the way we would quantify it.
Okay great.
So basically $10 million to $15 million across the system? That time on all of our volume.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Stivaletti with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted -- I guess I just wanted to comment this question a little bit differently and the issue is basically with -- if you look at Richie's forecast they're still using the last structural panel commentary of 1.2 million for housing starts and if we're now talking about 1.1 million or even less that would -- and you overlay that you're obviously for this year coming up with some pretty low operating rates.
And I guess I'm just trying to get your perspective on how you think the industry is behaving or will behave given these lower housing starts.
I mean are you -- are some of these restarted facilities not fully ramping up or have you seen any slowdowns in that activity or -- just trying to get some color to see if there's -- if we can get a higher comfort level that operating rates will be at sort of reasonable levels this year? Because I certainly understand you're looking out over the next couple of years if we get up to 1.37 million and whatnot we'll be in good shape but it's more looking at 2014 here.
So do you have some perspective on that? Really what I can talk about is what we're doing and I think I've said that.
We have a much slower ramp-up at Dawson Creek than we've anticipated.
We're not running full at Maniwaki and Swan and we're in the ramp-up phase with Clarke County.
So we really do adjust those schedules based on what we see as demand for our products in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Sure I know you're not going to get in to talk about a specific competitor or anything but I mean broadly out there you sort of -- do you think other people are being that responsible in terms of taking out of that sort of being conservative and really being -- adjusting your production like that on a real-time basis or -- I just was curious with...
But I think the -- overall I think the APA said volumes Q-to-Q were up 8%.
Q1 last year to Q1 of this year they said that that was the production increase.
That's probably a pretty good benchmark to look at as how -- what's being reported to them.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Question about Engineered Wood.
The EBITDA was up quite nicely when you consider that the sales were rather flat so is that due to lower costs as the OSB that you bring into that segment? The prices are far lower? Yes it was principally tied into the sales price increases that we announced in 2013 that reflected this quarter.
And the second as Sallie mentioned was better utilization of the whole facility stood lower overall costs.
Research Division</strong> And I think you have some issues at Houlton so with seasonality and no polar vortex we should start to see some torque in that segment correct? Well and this is -- we actually had a fire in the LSL line in Houlton we were down the whole month of January.
We were able to make OSB in that though during that time.
But we didn't run any LSL in January.
So we would expect to see some acceleration there yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Ainsworth deal I don't want to put words in your mouth but the rationale is unchanged so I guess the only reason to walk would be if the economics don't work.
Is that how you look at it? Well that's -- as I said in my comments we're going to do what's best for shareholders and if the economics do change to a negative then that would certainly be a consideration we got to take.
Your next question comes from the line of John Tumazos with Very Independent Research.
LLC</strong> My question I apologize it's been asked a little bit different ways but presumably it doesn't require a specific decision by Kurt at the top level to reduce schedules or output or whatnot you just have an order book and if the order book isn't full the mills run on less shifts.
And if there's too many mills open the EBITDA is negative and you decide to have fewer sites active et cetera.
So is it sort of reasonable to look at your results and the EBITDA is still positive so you're not at the point of curtailing capacity yet? As I said we are adjusting our production schedules based on-demand.
So you're exactly right that what our salespeople see is demand from our customers it dictates what we do from a production standpoint.
And typically what Jeff does who runs that business is he sets inventory targets at his mills and once you hit those targets you adjust the schedules.
Your final question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on -- we've seen a lift in OSB pricing last couple of weeks just whether you attribute that to the delay in the U.S.
home building activity as a result of weather or is that -- and if you could give an indication of what you see in in-field inventories? Yes I think it is weather-related.
As I mentioned in my comments we did have late shipments those are starting to show up but they're going right out to the field.
So our sales people would say that inventories remain lean and the building season has begun in earnest and that's a good thing.
So I'm very happy about this.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I know.
It's good to see it as well.
Just on operating rates just trying to understand what you're doing in Clarke County? It sounded like you took downtime in the quarter but that was more rail maybe you could give an indication on what you expect to produce at that mill.
And what you're running Dawson at is that running 1 shift or 2? No.
I think Dawson it moves between 1 and 2 it's no more than 2.
And at Clarke County we expect to produce this year somewhere in the $400 million range.
Patrick I think that's all the time we have for questions and that's the questions we have.
So if you could please provide the replay number we will move forward.
And we'd like to thank everybody for participating in the call.
Mike and Becky is always -- are here to answer any of your follow-up questions.
So thank you and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen to access the replay please dial 1 (866) 233-1854 and use replay code 63373789.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Welcome to your Second Quarter 2014 Louisiana-Pacific Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your operator for today.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to hand the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Sallie Bailey Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please proceed.
Great.
Thank you very much Stephanie and good morning.
Thank you for joining our conference call to discuss LP's financial results for the second quarter of 2014 and year-to-date results.
I am Sallie Bailey LP's Chief Financial Officer and with me today are Curt Stevens LP's Chief Executive Officer; as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley our primary Investor Relations contact.
I'll begin the discussion with a review of the financial results for the second quarter of 2014 and the first six months of 2014.
This will be followed by some comments on the performance of individual segments and selected balance sheet items.
After I finish my comments Curt will discuss the general market environment in which LP has been operating provide his perspective on our operating results for the second quarter of 2014 and give some thoughts on the outlook.
As we have done in the past we have opened up this call to the public and are doing a webcast.
That webcast can be accessed at www.lpcorp.com.
Additionally to help with the discussion we provided a presentation with supplemental information that should be reviewed in conjunction with the earnings release.
I will be referencing these slides this morning in my comments.
We have also filed an 8-K this morning and some supplemental information as well as we have filed our second quarter 10-Q.
I want to remind all the participants about the forward-looking statement comment on Slide 2 of the presentation.
Please also be aware of the discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial information included on Slide 3 of the presentation.
The appendix attached to the presentation has some of the necessary reconciliations that has been supplemented by the Form 8-K filing we made this morning.
Rather than reading these 2 statements I incorporate them with this reference.
With that let me go into the details.
Moving to slide 4 of the presentation for discussion of the second quarter 2014 and first six months of 2014 consolidated results.
We reported net income of $519 million for the second quarter of 2014 a 9% decrease from the net sales reported for the second quarter of 2013.
In the second quarter of 2014 we recorded net income of $2 million or $0.01 per share.
In the second quarter of 2013 we reported net income of $94 million or $0.65 per diluted share on $567 million of net sales.
The adjusted loss from continuing operations for the quarter is $4 million or loss of $0.03 per share on a normalized tax rate of 35% compared to income of $58 million or $0.41 in the second quarter of 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $26 million in the quarter compared to adjusted EBITDA of $122 million in the second quarter of 2013.
On the year-to-date basis we reported $963 million of net sales a $12 million net loss and the loss per share of $0.09 as compared to net sales of $1.1 billion net income of $159 million and earnings per share of a $1.10 for the first six months of 2013.
On a non-GAAP basis we recorded an adjusted loss from continuing operations of $11 million a loss per share of $0.08 and adjusted EBITDA of $49 million for the first six months of 2014 as compared to the first six months of 2014 when we recorded $117 million of adjusted income from continuing operations earnings per share of $0.81 and adjusted EBITDA of $242 million.
The primary driver for the declining earnings from the six months of 2013 is average sales price for OSB.
The decrease in average sales in the average selling price lowered operating results by approximately a $180 million for the 2014 second quarter as compared to the second quarter of 2013 by approximately $231 million for the first six months of 2014 as compared to the first six months of 2013.
I will now move to slide 5 and a review of our segment results.
Beginning with OSB OSB recorded an operating loss of $6 million on $224 million of sales in the quarter compared to operating profit of $95 million on $306 million of sales for the second quarter of 2013.
For the quarter we reported adjusted EBITDA of $8 million as compared to adjusted EBITDA of $108 million in the second quarter of 2013.
Volume increased to 11% but our average sales price is 36% lower as compared to the second quarter of 2013.
The decrease in pricing results in lower operating results by approximately $118 million.
For the first six months OSB had an operating loss of $7 million compared to a 194 million of operating profit in 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA for the first six months of 2014 was $20 million compared to $260 million in the first six months of 2013.
The impact of pricing between the years negative impacted the results by approximately $231 million which accounted for more than the change.
Turning to slide six which reports the results of our siding business.
This segment includes our SmartSide and CanExel siding products and commodity OSB producer at Hayward mill.
The siding segment reported sales of a $170 million in the second quarter of 2014 and an increase of 11% from a $153 million reported in the second quarter of 2013.
The sliding segment reported operating income of $26 million compared to $27 million in the second quarter of 2013 and adjusted EBITDA of $30 million as compared to $32 million in the same quarter of 2013.
The reduction OSB price reduced results by $2 million between the quarters.
For the quarter SmartSide average sales price was up 9% and volumes increased 15% a record for any second quarter.
Volume increased in our SmartSide siding line due to continued penetration in several key focus markets including retail repair and remodel markets and sheds.
CanExel prices were down 6% for the 1% in Canadian dollars.
CanExel sales volumes were down 10% in the quarter due to lower Canadian and international demand.
On a year-to-date basis the siding segment recorded $330 million in sales $45 million in profit and $54 million in adjusted EBITDA.
For the first six months of 2013 the siding segment reported sales of $287 million profit of $48 million and adjusted EBITDA $56 million.
Improvement from the first six months of 2013 is driven by the increased volume of 13% in SmartSide and higher sales price.
The reduction in OSB prices lowered results by $5 million for the first six months of the year.
Please turn to slide 7 of the presentation which shows the results from our Engineered Wood Products segment.
This segment includes I-Joist Laminated Strand Lumber Laminated Veneer Lumber plus other related products.
This segment also includes the sale of I-Joist and LVL products produced by the Abitibi joint venture are under our sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood.
The Engineered Wood Product segment reported sales of $81 million in the second quarter of 2014 up from $61 million in the second quarter of 2013.
The segment's operating loss in the second quarter of 2014 was $5 million the same as the second quarter of 2013.
The second quarter of 2014 adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations increased $1 million as compared to the second quarter of 2013.
Volumes in I-Joist were up 27% while volumes at LVL and LSL were up 26% compared to the same quarter last year primarily due to improved market demand.
Prices were up 8% in I-Joist and 4% in LVL and LSL reflecting price increase in all our product lines.
On a year-to-date basis Engineered Wood Products reported net sales of a $147 million a loss of $8 million and adjusted EBITDA of $1 million.
In the first six months of 2013 Engineered Wood Products reported net sales of a $124 million a loss of $9 million and negative adjusted EBITDA of $2 million.
Sales volumes in I-Joist were up 15% and sales volumes for LVL and LSL were up 14%.
Pricing was also higher by 6% for LVL and LSL and 9% for I-Joist in the first six months.
Turning to slide 8 of the presentation for the quarter our South American segment recorded $42 million of net sales a slight reduction from 44 million in the second quarter of 2013.
Operating profit was 4 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared to $6 million in the second quarter of 2013.
South America’s adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $7 million for the second quarter of 2014 which is $2 million lower than reported adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter of 2013.
Volumes in Chile and Brazil were down 9% compared to the same quarter last year.
The sales volume decrease in Chile was primarily due to issues related to the political trends position which has slowed housing demand.
The sales volume increased in Brazil was primarily due to increased export shipments mostly to China.
Pricing was lower by 16% in Chile and 2% in Brazil.
In local currency Chile reported 4% decrease and Brazil recorded a 1% improvement in pricing.
For the first six months of 2014 South America recorded net sales of $79 million profit of $8 million and adjusted EBITDA of $13 million.
For the first six months of 2013 South America recorded net sales of $89 million a profit of $13 million and adjusted EBITDA of $18 million.
The lower sales were due to political transition in Chile and the distraction of the World Cup in Brazil.
Total SG&amp;A costs were $36 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared to $35 million in the same quarter of 2013.
For the first six months of 2014 SG&amp;A costs were $77 million compared to $17 million for the first six months of 2013.
The increase in SG&amp;A cost is primarily due to cost associated with our systems project and legal and transaction cost associated with our now-terminated acquisition of Ainsworth.
We recorded a $3.8 million foreign exchange gain in the second quarter compared to a loss of $3.6 million in the same quarter of last year.
For the six months period we recorded a loss of $500 000 in 2014 compared to a loss of $4.3 million in 2013.
Net interest expense was $6 million in the quarter compared to $7 million in the second quarter of 2013 and for the first six months of 2014 net interest expense was $12 million as compared to $14 million in the first six months of 2013.
The lower interest expenses related to our reduction in debt outstanding in Chile in the third quarter of 2013.
Please refer to slide nine of the presentation as of June 30 2014 we have cash and cash equivalents investments and restricted cash of $570 million.
Working capital of $821 million net cash of $200 million and capital expenditures for the first six months were $42 million.
We generated $15 million of operating cash flow in the quarter and used $58 million of operating cash flow in the first six months of 2014.
We are planning on spending approximately $90 million for capital expenditures in 2014.
Now before I turn the call over to Curt I would like to make a few comments on our capital structure and capital allocation plans.
We plan to maintain a debt to capital ratio in the range of 25% to 30%.
This range is conservative but also consistent with the debt to capital ratios of other mid and small cap cyclical companies.
Our debt to capital ratio including the timber nodes was 23% at the end of the second quarter.
Now as we have discussed in the past we plan to retain $250 million to $300 million of minimum cash balances.
This amount is sufficient to cover our fixed cash cost for 2 to 3 years.
We recently amended our credit agreement to decrease our minimum -- required cash balance to $200 million.
The reason for the amended was to clarify the minimum cash balance following the termination of Ainsworth acquisition and to equate the minimum cash requirement in the agreement to the size of the credit facility.
For cash in excess of $250 million to $300 million we will continue to evaluate opportunities for acquisitions for investments in our current businesses such as third Chilean mill and for the siding expansions as well as return on capital to shareholders.
In the past LP has returned capital to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
With that let me turn the call over to Curt for his comments.
Thanks for that review of the second quarter Sallie.
My comment today will focus on our accomplishments and challenges in the last quarter.
Talk about the current state of the housing market and provide you with my views on what lies ahead for us for the rest of 2014 and into 2015.
The second quarter LP and the safety total incident rate of 0.41 for the second quarter.
In the quarter a number of our facilities were recognized by the APA for their safety record in 2013.
And in June I was able to attend a celebration at our Wilmington LVL mill to recognize the achievement of seven years without a recordable injury.
The good news is that the weather began to improve in late April from a terribly cold Q1 however this was not without challenges due to heavy rains in many parts of the country.
In North America we did see volume increase in virtually all product lines due to improved billing activity and other demand.
We sold record volumes of Laminated Strand Lumber in Q2 following a record Q1 the SmartSide siding with another record in Q2.
We did post positive adjusted EBITDA in all of our segments except EWP which was about breakeven.
OSB prices that were over 35% both for Q2 of 2013 and the first half of 2013 accounted for more than a 100% of the change in our earnings compared to last year masking improvement in our overall business operations.
There is little doubt that the housing market is improving but the June housing numbers and the revisions to April and May make it very difficult to determine the pace of the recovery.
U.S.
housing starts in June with an adjusted annual rate of 893 000 9% below May but 7.5% above last year.
Permits were at 963 000 in June.
The Case-Shiller Index to home prices was up 10.8% in April compared to one year ago.
The NAHB Market Index was positive in June and took a big jump in July as builder optimism about sales in the next six months increased by 10%.
While builder optimism looks to be increasing there is a concern in demand for new homes is softening as evidenced by new home sales be lower by 5% in the first half of this year compared to last year due primarily the price increases on last year higher mortgage rates and more competition from existing homes on the market.
In the recent releases by home builders there has been a lot of talk about increasing the pace of new home closures by focusing on bringing the first time home buyer back into the market.
Several home builders are reducing the amenities in their new homes there by allowing for lower price points.
The home builders are more vocal on mortgage assess for first time home buyer through government programs FHA veterans and the future of Fannie and Freddie Mae.
In other markets retail sales of building materials were up about 3.5% compared to last year indicating that consumers are spending more on repair and remodeling activities.
There has also been an uptick in non-residential construction activities.
For the rest of 2014 my optimism is faded as the housing forecast have declined every month since the first of the year which has kept the demand for OSB and EWP products below what we had expected.
The consensus forecast for the year now stands at a 1.44 million starts a 13% increase from last year.
For 2015 the consensus which is a moving target is about 1.29 million which would be a 23% increase over this year’s revised forecast.
Whilst these forecasts are lower than they were on our last call.
The 30 year fixed rate mortgages were at 4.15% in mid-July still an attractive rate.
The key is that more potential home buyers qualified for these mortgages.
The recent growth from the overall economy and the revisions to prior quarters are a strong indication there is more business activity in the U.S.
and the jobs reports last several months have been more positive.
This leads me to believe that we will break 1 million housing starts in 2014 but not by much.
For 2015 as I mentioned the consensus is just shy of 1.3 million but I don’t believe would be prudent for us to plan our operations around this magnitude of increase.
Our management team is focused on the forecast of next year of around 1.1 million with the downside scenario being flat for this year.
The demographics of pent demand for housing would argue for higher numbers but I personally think that the political and regulatory uncertainty over the next few years will make home buyers more cautious.
As always we will continue to respond to the slow recovery by adjusting our OSB production largely in Canada exploring opportunistic export sales and driving growth in our siding business.
As an indication of that the second quarter we removed about a 125 million square feet of production through our curtailments.
For this quarter there are several things that have already happened or will be accomplished.
In July we did sell one of our permanently curtailed OSB mills in Athens Georgia to a group who is pursuing pellet manufacturing for about $11 million.
As an aside we did retain ownership of the forming line in the press.
Also in July we modified our credit agreement as Sallie discussed.
On the down side in late June we did have a catastrophic failure of a flaker in one of our Chilean mills that stopped production.
Through the coordinated effort with our folks in Chile our vendor and U.S.
engineering support.
I’m pleased to report that that is now back online.
Fortunately this is the winner in South America we were able to satisfy our customers demand from our production in Brazil.
For the rest of the quarter and couple of other things we would like to achieve.
We want to continue to drive the growth initiatives in our siding business and determine the next steps to ensure that we have adequate capacity that satisfies this growing demand.
Well our basics are in place there is still work to be done to address some known shortcomings in our recently implemented ERP system largely to improve the communication between our customers and vendors.
As always LP is ready to serve a growing housing market when it happens and we’re looking forward to the increased activity.
With that let me turn it back over to Sallie for questions.
Great.
Thank you very much Curt.
Stephanie we would like to take questions now if we can go to the queue (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Mike Roxland with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Just quick first wanted to start on the EWP business.
Obviously you posted much better pricing in 2Q versus 1Q and also versus prior year's 2Q yet your profitability worsened sequentially was flat year-over-year.
And also your EWP performance appears to be worse than some of your peers who have already reported so can you just provide some color on what happened during the quarter that negatively affected your profitability? We had several one off events we had a contract negotiation in our Canadian mill that we actually had a retro adjustment to pay and we also had two termination cost there.
But if you took those out we would have been positive EBITDA in that business.
How much did that accounted for just roughly a couple million dollars? Is that --? Roughly it's about a couple of million bucks.
So Mike to build on Curt’s point we really -- as we were reviewing the business we were really looking more to the year-to-date the first six months to see what the performance of the business is and there you can see particularly on the adjusted EBITDA line almost a $3 million improvement year-over-year.
Got you.
Which would have been more if you didn't have these termination costs and the retro adjustment--? That’s exactly correct.
Right.
Then in OSB also cost and cost premise have increased significantly in 2Q.
So I'm just wondering what happened in the quarter as well and whether the cost increase is related to downtime or did you actually see an increase in material cost during the quarter? So we actually saw on a cost -- I guess I’m not sure Mike when I look at the cost of sales I see that they are pretty much the same maybe a little bit lower than they were in the first quarter and certainly lower than they were in the second quarter of 2013 based on our production.
But I mean I think we can say -- maybe you can get with Mike and walkthrough that but we did see some increases in our fiber cost from Q2.
’13 to Q2 ’14 in OSB.
Got you.
So that now would be the biggest impact from-- But not significant right not significant.
So maybe it's a difference between production versus sales but in general when we look at it we actually saw a decreases in the cost of sales off of the first quarter of ’14 and below the second quarter of ’13.
I will follow-up with Mike offline on that no problem.
And just the last question and I will turn it over.
As the industry leader in OSB is there anything else you can do to improve industry fundamentals especially given your 2015 housing forecast for 1.1 million starts.
Most of your peers seem to be running flat out.
You guys seem to be taking some downtime.
As the industry leader with 23% 24% market share why not just indefinitely idle one of your higher cost mills until demand improves? Why not just do what needs to be done to get pricing into -- to help move pricing up rather than trending along the bottom here? Well Mike what we do is we run this as a system as you know and we did startup two mills last year one of them was in our Dawson Creek and that was to satisfy two specific value added products our flooring and our TechShield in the western part of the U.S.
and we have adjusted our production there as we talked about to meet what we feel is demand there.
So that’s not actually going into a commodity.
It's going into the value added piece.
The other mill that we started up was in in Clarke County and that -- had I known we’re going to be less than a million starts we probably wouldn’t have done that but now that we have that mill up and running what it gives us is it gives us long length of capability in the eastern part of the U.S.
It's the only mill that we have in east that can do the 9 and 10 put and so we are beginning to do some product introductions on those products.
But our Plan B always was to take production capacity out of our Canadian mills as demand sales to meet our expectations is that s what we have done.
Any more flexibility there Curt to take more capacity out? Well we’re taking out the capacity that we think needs to come out based on the demand side.
The other thing that we’re doing Mike and we have talked about this is we did increase our exports in Q2 versus Q1 so that takes that product out of the North America market.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Please proceed.
Just sticking on that last comment a little bit southeast prices remain particularly weak.
Is there anything any adjustment that can be made in there? I assume -- is Clarke County would still be profitable at a price of $170 on a cash basis? Just the relative weakness in the southeast.
Can you deliver to other regions to be profitable? It seems like that price you've got to be pushing cash costs at the industry overall? That’s probably very close to truth but I’m not sure what the question is.
I'm just wondering can you move that to other regions and still make a profit at a mill like Clarke County or do think something is going to have to give specifically in the south? Well I think that in general we look at reasonable price and take advantage of that when we can.
One of things that has happened for LP is as siding has continued to grow we have taken capacity out of the north central region and I know our sales people are looking to filling demand that would have come out of our Hayward mill with production from the South East or from Canada.
Okay.
Just to that point the reported production volumes of commodity OSB and Siding obviously fell very sharply.
Is that a new normal or was there something unusual in the second quarter on that? In the siding? Yes.
The commodity OSB within Siding.
Yes.
That’s going to continue to deteriorate well it's a good thing.
It's going continue to be converted siding and that’s my comment earlier.
We do have to decide which mill we’re going to convert to siding and how quickly we’re going to need to do that because as the commodity OSB goes away and becomes converted into siding this is a market where we have to be ahead of our customers with demand.
We have already started that discussion.
Gail we produced 16 million square feet in our siding mills this quarter and our expectation is that that number will be close to zero for the second half of the year.
This siding demand is very very strong.
Okay.
Just taking a step back strategically in light of the failure of the Ainsworth acquisition and looking ahead to a more normal housing market what options do you have just looking ahead? Can you do -- is M&amp;A completely out of the question moving forward and organically looking within OSB is there anything that you can do within your system? Well I don’t think M&amp;A is out of the question but it certainly put a cloud over it because of the actions of the Department of Justice.
We will continue to look at those.
I would guess that in the short term until there is a change in administration or a change in view it's unlikely that a transaction the size of Ainsworth will be something we pursue aggressively.
But there are some fill in acquisitions in the OSB business there is some fill in acquisitions in our siding business potentially and some fill in in EWP that we will continue to look at.
We will also although -- and I think our first priority is to utilize all the assets that we currently have we’re running our OSB business without (indiscernible) we ran it about 80% in Q2.
Engineered Wood even with the increase we saw in the second quarter is still effectively running at about 60% of capacity.
The one that we’re running full out is our siding business and we’re looking at adding additional capacity there in the relatively short term and then South America we did have a little bit of a pause with the activities around the World Cup in Brazil.
We didn’t see a lot of internal demand in Brazil but as Sallie mentioned we did have good export demand particularly from China and then we’re contemplating and we have started the environmental permitting process for our third mill in Chile which would utilize idled equipment in North America as we did with the other two mills there.
So I think we have got some good growth prospects not only just filling out what we have got now but also redeploying some of the idled equipment that we have around North America.
Okay.
And just last question on Engineered Wood volumes your volumes were very strong as were the industries.
It seems maybe a little bit stronger than underlying housing activity would suggest.
Was there any inventory shifting or anything else going on there or do think that was just driven by true demand? I think it was driven by demand and I also think we’re beginning to see the impact of housing recovery in a strong Chinese market for British Columbia lumber.
So that's creating additional demand for Engineered Wood.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Please proceed.
Curt following on Gail's question I've asked you this before but both of your predecessors have looked to diversify Louisiana-Pacific away from OSB when the market was strong.
And obviously we’re talking out a couple of years but how high is it on your priority list to expand dramatically beyond OSB given the volatility of the market you're in? Well as one of the world leaders in OSB I got to embrace it.
I think it is over a cycle I think it's one of the best building materials from a margin standpoint that there is.
Now we do have periods of supply and demand in-balance that do create difficult pricing environments but I think OSB is a great business and I think it's a platform it helps us enter into these other businesses or I would say the platform.
The strand-based technology that we in our OSB business we all are using those assets for siding.
We’re also using those assets for Laminated Strand Lumber and we do see that there is some potential further applications that we could apply the strand-based technology.
So I think as a company you’re going to see us focused on strand certainly for the near to midterm.
But Mark we have talked about in the past we are also very focused investing in our siding business and our South American business that has less volatility than the OSB that help us in markets like the one we’re in today.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
I'd like to come back to the EWP business because I was a little surprised quite how weak the quarter was.
You didn't seem to have gotten the lift that some of your peers had.
You mentioned about $2 million worth of drag from labor and other things but I wondered if there was anything else that you'd want to call out in that business? I wondered -- your two big public peers in that business place a lot of emphasis on being integrated into distribution and that that distribution arm really helps them in selling the product.
I would like to get your thoughts on that? While I have heard them say that as well Mark.
I do think that in the quarter had we not had the labor things that I talked about it would have been a much better comparable than one is looking at our peers.
I have high expectations that our EWP business is going to return to consistent profitability as we see housing starts grow beyond where we’re today.
The difficulty in that business has been two pull one when OSB the lumber prices are high the raw materials are high and they don’t get necessarily the lift on sales price offset that.
When OSB prices and lumber price come back down then there is an increased level of profitability and I think that’s what we saw in the second quarter.
Okay and then just a question on distribution Curt.
On distribution? Yes.
We end up being probably the leading supplier to the independent distributors.
So we have a series of distributors across North America that we have selected and work with that we think gives us good access to the market.
What I don’t know is -- you can explore that as what the inter-company pricing mechanisms are between the production side and the distribution side and where the margins go up.
I don’t -- I am not privy to that information That's something we are always trying to figure out.
Just one other question on South America is it possible for you to break out the relative profitability of the Chilean business versus that big mill in Brazil? I saw your volume was up a lot in Brazil but you mentioned a lot of that is just Chinese exports which I assume have fairly low margins given the freight you've got to carry? Yes the Chinese business actually is a pretty good business it's a decorative panel it's not used as a business material.
The relative profitability Chile is more profitable than Brazil but Brazil for the last couple of years has been profitable every quarter.
And what would the operating rate be at that Brazilian mill? It's probably running about 70% to 75% right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Please proceed.
I noticed the first -- that it looks like you guys -- your production was up maybe 6.5% but I think you said your sales and volumes of OSB were up closer to 11%.
Does that mean your inventories have come down and did you make some adjustments to the quarter in light of the weaker housing markets already? We did have our inventories come down Chip but most of that was related to some export sales that we’re in inventory in the first quarter that weren't in inventory in the second quarter.
Okay.
And then just a quick clarification the flaker issue in Latin America in Chile was that in late June or late July? Late June.
I think the flaker went down to 29 of June it took us a month to get the equipment down and rebuild it and it came online a couple of days ago.
Okay.
Then Curt you mentioned that you guys are running or planning next year for 1 million to 1.1 million starts in terms of how you will be producing and you said most of the incremental downtime would be in Canada.
Does that mean you're taking a shift off of Dawson Creek even though that's more of a specialty mill it looks like or how do you specifically think you'll operate next year and do you think that there will be decremental operating leverage as a result because you are not really taking down any of your mills? Well the way we’re running the mills we think it's the most cost effective way to do it.
Take the mill down permanently or in definitely actually cost you a lot of money in severance and employee cost and the rest of that.
So I think the way we’re managing it we’re managing it two costs.
The way we do take those shifts out we either don’t add shifts or we take shifts off or we take market related down time by laying off the hourly workforce for several weeks at a time.
Now the other thing is going on as I mentioned is we’re looking at doing another mill conversion to siding and one of the mills that we’re looking at is a Canadian mill and that would tighten up that supply demand should we decide to do that.
And that actually opens up a couple of other questions.
It looks like your CapEx this year has come down about $10 million if I'm not splitting hairs.
I thought it was around 100 million.
But as we look at next year in light of the weaker CapEx -- I'm sorry the softer outlook -- you might even be more cautious next year but then again you might pursue a siding conversion.
So I guess I’m asking two things how much would a siding conversion cost and if you did not do a next year what you think your CapEx would go roughly? Chip you’re right we did take our planned expenditures down from a 100 million to 90 million but more importantly when I think about next year and looking where we’re the focus we will have is on spending for a siding conversion which can be right about $50 million to $70 million the third Chilean mill so consistent with the strategy that we have of trying to lift our earnings when the OSB markets is more volatile and then the remaining portion of it given where we’re we’re looking at capital closer to that get around that $2 million of capital expenditures per mill which is in that $25 million to $50 million range.
So we will look at the base level and then we will protect the investments in the growing business.
I see.
So if you did pursue a siding conversion that's an incremental $50 million to $70 million by itself right? Correct.
Okay I got you.
And then on the Chilean if you did the third mill down there what would that cost be roughly? In the past it would be pretty similar to what the cost of siding mill is.
We spent for the two that are down there we spent about 50 million together and the third mill would be about that same 60 million.
So but remember Chip that’s not all in the next 12 months so that’s over a period of time.
I see.
And just the last question.
At this point from the way it looks would it look like you would likely try to do those together or one at a time? If one at a time which one looks to be the better opportunity at this point? Well there is couple of things that play into that one we have made our filling for the environmental permitting in Chile.
There has been a change in the regime down there so it could take us longer to get that approval than we anticipated.
So I’m guessing that the siding would proceed ahead of the Chilean one and primarily because we cannot be out of siding capacity of 100 to take that business.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
A couple of questions for you.
First with plywood prices being so strong this year and that spread between plywood and OSB almost on a record level is there an opportunity to more aggressively take market share from plywood in the back half of this year? I would certainly think so.
I don’t know why you would but plywood if the spread is large as it is.
It's a little bit of enigma to me to understand why plywood pricing is so strong.
So it doesn't seem like there are any concrete examples though of people switching.
Is that fair? It doesn't seem like there's an answer to why that's not happening from your perspective Curt.
Is that fair? I think that’s fair I think the APA would take most of that plywood is not going into construction is going into some other applications.
I wish I had a better answer for you but I don’t.
Yes.
It's an interesting question.
I haven't really been able to get a good answer to it.
Next thing is there is a lot of discussion about the MLP tax structure for paper and forest products -- names are more focused on these container board names but intuitively if they were to go down that path and get a favorable ruling there's no reason that -- where products companies couldn't necessarily go down that path.
So any thoughts around an MLP tax structure for an OSB mill and have you spent any time thinking about that at all? Well I’m actually in Portland to take this call.
I have my tax director with me and he has done some initial view of that and we will continue to monitor but we’re not aggressively pursuing anything at this time.
We’re not really think it made sense from what we can see for our model which is not to say we won't continue to look at it.
Can you elaborate a little bit more on that Sallie in terms of what specifically you feel--? Sure.
I mean just what we’re talking about today the volatility of the cash flow is coming out of the OSB business makes not a particularly attractive structure it makes a great looking structure in time periods when those mills are generating a lot of cash and very attractive at times when they are not.
Okay.
So it's volatility that is a challenge.
Got it.
Maybe just last one.
Can you help us think through what the cost of downtime would be in an OSB mill system? If you are planning to take X amount of million square feet off-line in terms of lack of order downtime how should we think about what that would cost to the bottom line of the company? Well what you’re going to have reduce efficiency of the mill until it's largely going to be related to your salaries and overhead structure and as you saw in Q2 we did take 125 million square feet out of the system.
That’s about 30%.
So if you think about it a way to think about it Alex is our favorable comps are 65% to 78% so we were in the burden of 30ish percent for those mills.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research Group.
Please proceed.
First just following up on the siding options you are looking at are those mills that are currently running that you are contemplating for conversion? Yes but we’re also looking at idled facility but principally the running mills.
Okay.
Would you anticipate certainly by the end of this year to have made a decision on that? We have made an internal decision.
Right now we’re focused on going through our Board in January with a request to start that project.
Mark to our advantage to convert an OSB mill that’s currently running because we already know we have the certain level of quality in that mill.
And then curious in that process itself would the mill go down for a while or is it that it runs OSB until you convert to siding? We try to limit the downtime as much as we can but I’m guessing it will probably be 30 to 45 days down but we wouldn’t -- but basically what you’re doing when you convert this mill is you have to put the finishing line in.
Right.
Then presumably you have swing capability for a while too.
You can produce OSB if you choose to and you can produce siding if you choose to.
Is that fair? That’s correct.
Okay.
Second Sallie you were laying out the various options acquisitions investments and you've certainly given us a few investments on your plate and then also return of capital.
Do have a share repurchase authorization in place at this point? No please.
And if not given that that was one of the options you suggested could be in there why not? We do not have a share authorization at place right now and we’re continuing to talk with our Board about the return of capital to shareholder opportunities.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Please proceed.
Mine are more follow-ons.
First of all with respect to Engineered Wood I just wanted to know do you have a price hike that's pending for the third quarter or that was perhaps implemented June 1 that should benefit Q3? There were price hikes in the second quarter that will have more impact in Q3 than Q2.
And that was in the kind of mid-single digits? I think that’s right.
It depends on the product line and the region but yes.
Okay.
Then this is maybe as much of a comment as a question but I'm glad to hear that your 2015 outlook is a little more restrained than I think the new consensus which calls for still another 20% uptick.
But given that Clarke County is ramping up if it's only 1.1 million you'll still need to take probably some downtime or a facility out of the system.
Is that correct? Well what we’re doing adjusting production again principally in Canada or looking for export Steve.
So we don’t have export opportunities then it would be downtime probably mainly in Canada.
And the conversion to Siding? How much does that chew up of your capacity? Well as we just talked about what we will do is we will make the conversion and as demand rises we will be -- it will be more and more siding and less and less OSB.
So it will be running virtually fully with one product or the other.
The mills we’re looking at would be somewhere between 380 million and 500 million square feet of overall capacity.
And the final questions will come from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
If I could sneak in two easy questions.
One is relative levels of OSB North American exports.
And then second what are you seeing on the siding side? Where is that demand coming from? Is that coming from the U.S.
I was just pointing out that you don't have any siding mills down there? Well let me just take the second question the demand for siding is coming from the retail business so we have at least four SKUs in every (indiscernible) Home Depot and Lowe's in North America.
So we’re seeing a pickup in that demand.
We’re seeing it from non-residential structures so the shed -- and the out building business and then we’re seeing it from new home constructions I mentioned like some of these builders are doing these really lower amenity structures.
One of these is D.R.
Horton has got their Express Homes.
Their Express Homes all have LP SmartSide on them.
And the reason they could do that is they don’t have use OSB back or behind it they can use it as their structural component.
So we’re seeing a lot of demand for new home construction as well.
So it's pretty broad based.
Second question Paul was? Relative levels of exports? In Q1 we did 24 million and we did 32 million in Q2.
And just on the demand for Siding you described that as retail but is there a geographic mix to that as well? No.
It's pretty broad.
Does it make more sense to convert a mill down in two U.S.
south to Siding as opposed to one up in Canada? Yes we did that many years ago we found that we couldn’t maintain the same quality levels where the -- selling the old pine [ph].
So we focus on absent markets for where we produce.
Thank you Paul.
Well thank you Stephanie.
If you could please provide the replay number.
We would like to thank everybody for participating in the call.
Mike and Becky as always are available to answer any follow-up questions you all may have.
Thank you very much and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
The replay is available for eight days by calling 1888-286-8010.
Again the number is 1888-286-8010 and the access code is 85634474 again the access code is 85634474.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen .Welcome to the third quarter 2014 Louisiana Pacific Corporation earnings conference call.
My name is Chris and I will be your conference moderator for today.
At this time all participants are on a listen only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And at this time I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Sallie Bailey Chief Financial Officer and you may proceed.
Thank you very much Chris and good morning.
Thank you for joining our conference call to discuss LP's financial results for the third quarter of 2014 and year-to-date results.
I am Sallie Bailey LP's Chief Financial Officer and with me today are Curt Stevens LP's Chief Executive Officer; as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley our primary Investor Relations contact.
I'll begin our discussion with a review of the financial results for the third quarter of 2014 and the first nine months of 2014.
This will be followed by some comments on the performance of individual segments and selected balance sheet items.
After I finish my remarks Curt will discuss the general market environment in which LP has been operating provide his perspective on our operating results for the third quarter of 2014 and give some thoughts on the outlook.
As we have done in the past we have opened up this call to the public and are doing a webcast.
That webcast can be accessed at www.lpcorp.com.
Additionally to help with the discussion we provided a presentation with supplemental information that should be reviewed in conjunction with the earnings release.
I will be referencing these slides this morning in my comments.
We have also filed an 8-K this morning with some supplemental information as well as our third quarter 10-Q.
I want to remind all the participants about the forward-looking statement comment on Slide 2 of the presentation.
Please also be aware of the discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial information included on Slide 3 of the presentation.
The appendix attached to the presentation has some of the necessary reconciliations that have been supplemented by the Form 8-K filing we made this morning.
Rather than reading these 2 statements I incorporate them with this reference.
Couple of opening comments.
LP’s performance for the first nine months of 2014 and the third quarter of 2014 as compared to the same periods in 2013 is primarily driven by lower OSB average selling prices.
Reduction of OSB average selling prices had a negative impact on adjusted EBITDA of $281 million for the first nine months of this year the negative impact on adjusted EBITDA of $44 million for the third quarter of 2014.
Now with that let me go into the detail.
Moving to Slide 4 of the presentation for a discussion of the third quarter 2014 and first nine months consolidated results.
We reported net sales of $518 million for the third quarter of 2014 a 2% increase from the net sales reported for the third quarter of 2013.
In the third quarter of 2014 we recorded a net loss of $20 million or $0.14 per diluted share.
The third quarter of 2013 reported net income of $38 million or $0.20 per diluted share.
The third quarter of 2013 results included a pretax gain of $17 million related to the reduction of the contingent consideration associated with the acquisition of the Peace Valley mill.
The adjusted loss from continuing operations for the quarter is $16 million or $0.12 per share based upon the normalized tax rate of 35% compared to income of $19 million or $0.13 per share in the third quarter of 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $12 million in the quarter compared to adjusted EBITDA of $65 million in the third quarter of 2013.
On a year-to-date basis we recorded $1.5 billion in net sales a loss of $33 million and a loss per share of $0.23 as compared to net sales of $1.6 billion net income of $198 million and earnings per share of $1.37 in the first nine months of 2013.
On a non-GAAP basis we recorded an adjusted loss from continuing operations of $28 million loss per share of $0.20 and adjusted EBITDA of $61 million for the first nine months of 2014 a decline from the first nine months of 2013 and recorded $137 million of adjusted income from continuing operations earnings-per-share of $0.94 and adjusted EBITDA of $306 million.
I will now move to Slide 5 and review our segment results.
Starting with OSB.
OSB recorded an operating loss of $16 million on $233 million of sales in the quarter compared to operating profit of $30 million on $245 million of sales in the third quarter of 2013.
For quarter we're reporting negative adjusted EBITDA of $1 million compared to adjusted EBITDA of $46 million in the third quarter of 2013.
We had a 13% increase in volume over the third quarter of 2013 and pricing for OSB was down 16% over the third quarter of 2013 .The decrease in pricing resulted in lower operating results by about $44 million.
For the first nine months OSB had an operating loss of $24 million compared to income of $224 million in 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA for the first nine months of 2014 was $19 million compared to $262 million in the comparable period of 2013.
The impact of pricing between the years was $277 million and accounted for the majority of the change.
Slide 6 reports the results of our siding business.
This segment includes our SmartSide and CanExel siding products.
The siding segment reported sales of $163 million in the third quarter of 2014 an increase of 10% from $194 million reported in the third quarter of 2013.
The siding segment reported operating income of $21 million compared to $23 million in the third quarter of 2013 and adjusted EBITDA of $26 million as compared to $27 million in the same quarter of 2013.
Now given the 10% improvement in sales we would've expected improved EBITDA.
However the siding segment lost 20 million square feet of production at our Hayward Wisconsin facility due to wood shortages during the quarter.
We estimate that the lost production at Hayward negatively impacted the results by approximately $4 million.
In addition higher wood costs for all our siding mill impacted the segment’s performance negatively by another $3 million to $4 million in the quarter.
During the third quarter the siding segment did not produce any OSB.
In the third quarter of 2013 siding produced 42 million square feet of OSB.
For the quarter SmartSide average sales were up 1% and volumes increased 20%.
Volume increase in our SmartSide siding line due to continued penetration in several key focus markets including retail repair remodel markets and sheds.
CanExel prices were up 2% in US dollars and up 6% in Canadian dollars.
Canada is CanExel’s primary market.
Volumes were up 3% in the quarter due to higher Canadian and international demand.
On a year-to-date basis the siding segment reported $476 million in sales $66 million in profit and $79 million in adjusted EBITDA.
For the first nine months of 2013 the siding segment recorded sales of $436 million profit of $70 million and adjusted EBITDA of $83 million.
The decrease in OSB average sales price impacted operating results and adjusted EBITDA in the siding segment negatively by approximately $4 million for the nine-month period.
Please turn to Slide 7 of the presentation which shows the results for our engineered wood products segment.
This includes I-Joist Laminated Strand Lumber Laminated Veneer Lumber plus other related products.
This segment also includes the sale of I-Joist and LVL products produced by the Abitibi joint venture are under our sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood.
The engineered wood products segment recorded sales of $82 million in the third quarter of 2014 up from $72 million in the third quarter of 2013.
The segment’s operating loss in the third quarter of 2014 was $300 000 as compared to a loss of $2 million in the third quarter of 2013.
For the third quarter of 2014 adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations increased $3 million as compared to the third quarter of 2013.
Volumes at I-Joist were up 3% while volumes at LVL and LSL were up 13% compared to the same quarter last year primarily driven by large increase in LSL sales.
Pricing was up 7% and I-Joist and 3% in LDL and LSL.
And on a year-to-date basis engineered wood products reported net sales of $229 million a loss of $8 million and adjusted EBITDA of $5 million.
In the first nine months of 2013 engineered wood products reported net sales of $196 million a loss of $11 million and negative adjusted EBITDA of $1 million.
Sales volumes in I-Joist were up 11% and volumes for LDL and LSL were up 14%.
Pricing was up 7% in I-Joist and 3% for LDL and LSL.
Moving on to Slide 8 of the presentation.
For the quarter our South American segment recorded sales of $36 million as compared to $42 million in third quarter of 2013.
Operating income was $300 000 in the third quarter of 2014 compared to $5 million in the third quarter of 2013.
South American’s adjusted EBIT DA from continuing operations was $2 million for the third quarter of 2014 compared to $8 million in the third quarter of 2013.
Volumes in Chile were down 14% and flat in Brazil compared to the same quarter last year.
The sales volume decrease in Chile was primarily due to the continued political transition which is slowing housing as well as increased exports from North America.
We also lost a month of production in the third quarter at Lautaro Chile mill due to the waferizer failure.
In Brazil we experienced lower local market demand but the impact of that was offset by higher exports.
Pricing was down 12% in Chile and up 3% in Brazil.
In local currency Chile’s pricing was flat with the same quarter in 2013 and Brazil experienced a 3% improvement in pricing.
For the first nine months of 2014 South America recorded net sales of $115 million profit of $9 million and adjusted EBITDA of $15 million.
For the first nine months of 2013 South America recorded net sales of $131 million profit of $18 million and adjusted EBITDA of $26 million.
Please refer to Slide 9 of the presentation.
As of September 30 2014 we had cash cash equivalents investments and restricted cash of $595 million.
Working capital was $807 million net cash of $224 million and in addition to the $595 million of cash on our balance sheet we had $200 million availability on our credit facility.
Capital expenditures for the nine-months were $55 million.
We generated $28 million of operating cash flow in the quarter and used $30 million of operating cash flow for the first nine months.
We are planning to spend approximately $80 million for capital expenditures in 2014 $10 million lower than the estimate provided on our second quarter call and based on our initial review of capital expenditures for 2015 the range is expected to be between $50 million to $60 million related to maintenance compliance and safety projects and an additional $60 million to $70 million related to strategic growth capital which Curt will discuss in his comments.
Now before I turn the call over to Curt I will update you on our capital allocation strategy.
As we discussed on our second quarter conference call we plan to retain between $250 million and $300 million of minimum cash balances.
This amount is sufficient to cover our fixed cash cost for 2 to 3 years for cash in excess of $250 million to $300 million we will continue to evaluate opportunities for acquisitions investments in our current business and return of capital to shareholders.
And as we announced this morning in our press release LP’s board has authorized a $100 million share repurchase plan.
The share repurchases may be made from time to time opportunistically based on market conditions and subject to regulatory conditions.
With that I will turn the call over to Curt.
Thank you for the review of the third quarter Sallie and welcome to our call.
My brief comments today will focus on our accomplishments and challenges in the quarter talk about the current state of the housing market and provide you with my views on what is ahead for the rest of 2014 and into next year.
From a safety perspective LP had a year-to-date total incident rate of 0.38 for the first nine months of 2014.
Within that number we had zero recordable injuries in all of our South American operations and all of our administrative functions including our field sales and forestry groups.
As in Sallie just discussed we did experience sinking OSB prices throughout the third quarter which hurt both our topline revenue and our bottom-line profit.
On a year-to-date basis decline in OSB pricing accounted for reduction in sales and operating earnings of about $280 million.
The good news is that OSB pricing has been increasing since the end of the last quarter and further demand should come from steadily increasing housing starts in the future.
It leaves me with a few comments on the housing market where most of the news is positive.
US housing starts in September were once again over 1 million and permits were even all higher than that.
The Case-Shiller Index to home prices was up about – between 6.5% and 7% compared to one year ago.
The average mortgage rate at the end of October fell under 4% the lowest level we’ve seen since the spike in rates in May of 2013.
We mentioned last quarter and continues to be a lot of the talk by the homebuilders about increasing the pace of new home closures by focusing on bringing back the first time homebuyer in the market.
Just within the last few days the information came out that first time homebuyers only accounted for one third of new home purchases for the 12 months ended last June.
This is the lowest it's been in three decades.
There does seem to be a growing acceptance that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will have a long-term role in guaranteeing mortgages.
Still to come are the final rules for down payment and safe harbors for the mortgage putbacks at the banks.
In other markets retail sales of building materials were up 5.3% compared to August of last year indicating that consumers are spending more on the repair and remodel activities.
About a month ago I had the opportunity to attend the Home Depot vendor conference and they are very positive on repair and remodel activity for the next few years as the homes continue to get older and the pace of home ownership changes is growing which is a strong indication of repair remodel activity.
For the rest of 2014 we are at the back end of the year where there usually is a seasonal slowing.
However in October as I just said we did see a welcome and steady rise in OSB pricing.
The consensus forecast for the rest of the year now stands at just over 1 million housing starts which is up 8% but that one is only up 8%.
For 2015 the consensus is about 1.2 million a 20% increase over this year's revised forecast.
Both of these forecasts are lower than they were when we talked last time.
As I mentioned last quarter we will be a little bit more cautious and base our initial planning on 1.1 million housing starts for the next year.
We have several important projects on our near-term growth agenda.
We’ve been managing our order file and siding and have been doing that for the last several months.
This has primarily been the result of dealing with log shortages in the region where siding mills are located.
Our forestry group has a plan in place to address this fiber shortage and I am optimistic that we can fill up our log yards during the winter.
This along with limited plant downtime at our current siding mills should allow us to meet the anticipated market growth next year.
In addition we recently kicked off an accelerated project to convert our Swan Valley Manitoba OSB mill to siding production before the end of next year.
We will need his new production to continue our growth beyond next year.
In South America we have submitted our environmental permits for a third mill in Chile and have left the contract to do the detailed engineering to be ready to begin construction when the permit are approved.
We believe that it will be sometime next summer.
There are several other things we’d like to accomplish this quarter.
We want to continue to drive the organic growth initiatives in all of our businesses and for the capital projects I just discussed we need to have plans and documentation in place so that our board can give their final stamp of approval early next year.
While we like to see housing recover more quickly we are pleased with our positioning in the market and we stand ready to serve the increased housing market activity.
With that let me turn it back over to Sallie for questions and answers.
Great.
Thank you Curt.
Chris we are ready for questions that we could go to the queue.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Yes good morning Curt and Sallie.
If I add these numbers up it looks like your CapEx for next year could range between $110 million and $130 million and I would guess -- I know on the last call you were feeling a little more cautious than you sounded today I think you all were assuming $1.05 million for 2015.
And so I guess what I'm asking is between this CapEx budget increase and what you missed about October are you starting to sense that maybe it will be a better year next year? And let's say it turns out not to be would you be able to push out at least the $60 million to $70 million of the growth capital? And I'm asking all these questions is that $60 million to $70 million kind of the placeholder for Manitoba and Chile or is there more in there -- that you can touch on? Chip your last statement is exactly correct.
That 60 million to 70 million is what we expect to spend to convert Swan Valley to siding production and to begin the construction of the third mill in Chile.
So that growth capital is dependent at least in South America on when we get the environmental permitting so that could move further out.
We like it to start middle of the year but it could move out based on permitting.
On the siding we simply have to have more production.
We’ve had very good growth in our SmartSide and we need to get that mill converted as quickly as we can.
The rest of the capital is a really pretty much following up on regular maintenance.
There are some regulatory needs we have to comply with MACT that's about a 4 million to 5 million of that number.
And then in Canada as you’re probably aware there's been a lot of increased emphasis on dust and so we do have some dust prevention programs to help with our safety.
And then I guess just it makes -- totally understand the siding need and you all have a great business there and have telegraphed that very well.
But just looking at the numbers and not to get too short-term but it looks like Chile and you mentioned some of it might be due to some political changes but really was weak.
And could there be -- is there a possibility that maybe it may warrant a delay in adding capacity? I'm just kind of curious with the market being as weak as it's been recently down there why would now be a good time? Is there a strategic imperative or risk of another competitor doing the same thing? No I don’t think we have any risk of any competitor putting in production there.
What we experienced in Chile is with the change in the leadership of the country it has turned more socialist and as a result the housing activity has slowed.
What we are seeing – looking forward is we are seeing in that that will cover a little bit.
From a timing standpoint we started talking about Chile about a year and a half ago.
So we basically already have pushed this 6 to 9 months based on what we saw going on in the country.
The weakness in their operating results were two factors.
One was we lost the month of production due to the waferizer going out at Lautaro and the second is we are seeing imports because of the weak pricing environment in North America -- coming from North America into Chile and putting a little more pricing pressure on there.
That's helpful and then I guess the last question is on the buyback if you let's say for example you pursue these projects and you generate the cash to do so and let's say you generate another $100 million above your $250 million to $300 million balance you like to keep could we see you exercise that entire buyback next year if those conditions took hold? Or would there be reason to think that this might stretch out longer than that? Well as Sallie said what the board has given us the authority to do is to manage that based on what we see as market conditions and cash flow coming into the company.
So I think you can rest assured will take all that into consideration.
The next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Can you talk a little bit more about the wood issues that you've been having in siding? What caused them? Are they getting better? I guess you mentioned confidence that you would be able to build your decks during the winter.
And how significant -- I mean can you balance -- is the worst of it over and do you expect to recover in the fourth quarter to any extent? Well what we need is we need the cold weather but not a frigid winter.
So let me just talk about a little bit.
It’s mainly in the lake states and what we had in the lake states is we had the arctic freeze came through in the first quarter which limited our ability and our contractors’ ability to bring logs into the mills.
So while we had limited production coming out of the words we also had increased demand primarily from some of the pulp producers that’s who we compete with for those woods.
And then we got into the spring and we had all the rail.
And again they couldn’t get into the woods to pull the wood in.
And so we lost production in the first quarter and the second quarter at Hayward and then coming into the summer we also had to divert woods from some of our OSB mills into Hayward to run their production.
But as Sallie mentioned we’re about 20 million bit short of where we expected to be.
So where we are right now is that it’s starting to get cold up there but it’s also raining so that again rain limits your ability to get into the woods.
But if we have a reasonable winter we should be able to pull up our log decks appropriately over the winter and into the spring for the spring breakup.
So I am pretty confident that our foresters have a plan.
It does require us to bring wood from further out that's why we had an increase in the wood costs in the third quarter.
Okay and are you having any of these issues in other segments and generally maybe some perspective on inflation particularly given the recent decline in oil prices? Well from the wood issues we haven't really -- we had a little bit of wood issues in Manitoba again it was very wet during the summer but I don't expect any problems there in the US south their wood costs were actually down a little bit.
So I think we are in good position in our southern mills.
As far as what the impact on oil pricing that affects us in a couple different ways.
One we would expect resin pricing to come down it’s tailing adjustment so we’ll get the advantage of the $80 oil more in the first half of next year than we will this quarter.
And then the other impact on that is on the freight side both incoming and outgoing there's freight – there is oil surcharges on some of our freight costs.
That generally benefits our customers more than us as they pay the brick in general.
Okay and turning to OSB a little bit can you give a sense of downtime and maybe how it would have compared to the second quarter and any sort of outlook for the fourth quarter? Sure.
Gail in the second quarter we took 50 days of downtime – I am sorry in the third quarter we took 50 days of downtime.
So it was – which is about the equivalent of 75 million square feet in the second quarter we took about the equivalent of 125 million square feet.
So we took less downtime and as for the fourth quarter we don’t give – make statements about what our downtime is going to be but we will just continue to manage the supply and demand as we traditionally do in our OSB business.
Okay and just on the Swan Valley conversion can you give a sense of a) what type of utilization rate it's been running at recently? And when would you expect based on your current plan appreciate it hasn't been formally approved by the board to be able to produce some siding on the line? Well we have – Swan Valley – or our Canadian mills have taken most of our downtime through this last couple years.
So Maniwaki in Quebec as well as Dawson Creek in British Columbia and Swan have all taken downtime.
I think typically we’ve run Swan at the 60% to 65% in the utilization level.
From a timing standpoint we would like to be producing siding in the beginning of the fourth quarter of next year.
And your expectation was that you'd still be able to produce OSB during the conversion for most of the time? Well certainly – well through most of the conversion we will need to take the mill down to do the tie-in.
So we will probably lose 30 to 35 days of production late in the third quarter but we would anticipate running Swan on OSB through August probably.
Next question comes from the line of Mike Roxland with Bank of America.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just a follow up to Gail's on the downtime is there a particular reason you took less downtime in 3Q? The reason I ask it seems like many of your peers took increasing amounts of downtime during the quarter and also pointed to the potential for them to take more downtime in 4Q.
The way I would address that Michael is we have contractual obligation to our customers but generally what we did in the third quarter was we met those contractual obligations.
We had a little bit of open market wood which meant we produced above those contracts but not significantly above.
So if you look at the increase in our volume wood by 10% or 11% the market overall if you look at the demand from the EPA was up about 9% to 11%.
So we were kind of right where the market is in Q3.
But you produced a little bit more because of the contractual obligations that you have with your customers is that why those contracts I guess required more square footage in the third quarter? We had better pulls from the home centers in the third quarter.
My final question just on the EWP business continue to be surprised by some of the weakness you have in that business relative to the results that some of your peers have posted within the last week or two.
Can you just comment on what you are seeing in EWP and what some of the constraints are that you are experiencing on why we wouldn't see a more robust EWP performance relative to some your competitors? Well actually I am pretty pleased with the performance.
You need to remember about our EWP business is about 40% of that is through either a joint venture or marketing arrangement.
So what we get on that is we share the margin with the Abitibi JV for I-Joist and the arrangement we have with Murphy Plywood to sell their LVL we basically get a sales commission on that.
So we’re not going to enjoy the manufacturing margins – the full manufacturing margins on either the JV which we split or on the marketing arrangement.
But if you also look at it on a return on capital we don't have big capital investment.
We have no capital investment in the Murphy arrangement and just half of the JV.
So really adjust those margins for what is if you will contract manufacturing versus our own production.
Our next question comes from the line of Kapam Amtura with BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning thanks for taking my question.
Curt I was wondering if you can comment at all in terms of just inventories in the supply chain in OSB and how if at all you've seen any noticeable change in the last quarter? If you are asking for inventory in the channel we have not seen any noticeable change in that.
I think as we go into the fourth quarter we will be pulling down their inventories but in the third quarter I didn’t see any big changes.
And how would you categorize at this moment in terms of maybe on an absolute level or relative to what you have seen historically? I would say and it’s all anecdotal but based on what I've heard from our salespeople the inventory in the channel is above where it was the same time last year.
That’s right.
We haven’t seen any build – just they are pulling as they need it.
And as my follow up can you just tell us at what operating rate are you running Dawson Creek and maybe Clark County? Yeah we don’t tell how we are running mill by mill.
Our OSB business for the operating mills in the quarter ran about 79% of our total – And this is both the US and Canadian mills combined? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with Davidson.
I think it's appropriate that you are budgeting for no more than 1.1 million starts.
However I think current capacity is still sufficient to satisfy 1.2 million which means we are about 1 billion square feet too much.
So how are you going to adjust your operating stance or does the conversion of Swan Valley address this? Well I think there’s two things.
One we won't be producing any OSB at Hayward at all next year.
We produced a little bit the first half as Sallie said we didn’t produce any in the third quarter.
So that production has been taken out of the equation and then the conversion of Swan Valley will take 550 million square feet of ancillary totally off OSB market.
And is it offline next year as you do the work or does it still produce until you switch? As I just said we probably wouldn't take it off-line until September.
So we will run at reduced levels until September and then we will take it offline do the conversion and hopefully come upon on siding in October timeframe.
So with Hayward out I mean you are making a little bit of a dent but we probably still need to see some other people step up with either downtime or it would be great to see a mill go down? Well if we are really on 1.1.
that’s another r 1.1 billion square feet of demand from those 100 000 housing starts and if we are anywhere north of that then that either will cut into that excess capacity.
So we are aware of that.
And then if I'm not mistaken your sales to the big boxes like Home Depot are linked to benchmark 7/16 North Central.
That's probably served you well this year.
No Steve they are linked to whatever region we are selling into.
Oh they are linked by region okay.
Very little wood actually gets sold in North Central.
Well we know that.
But I think people focus too much on that it's like West Texas intermediate I guess.
Our last question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
A couple of questions for you guys.
If housing starts let's say come in better than where the base case is now how quickly do you think you can react to that demand? How long would it take to be able to react to any sort of upside surprise in the demand side? Well we’ve just talked about Alex – it gets to 1.2 as Steve said I think there is sufficient capacity in the market to handle.
As it gets north of that then there will be need to be some of the idle mills will need to come back online.
Again there is another 200 000 housing starts that’s 2.2 billion square feet of capacity uses up a lot of what is excess at the current time.
Right but I guess my question really is -- if you guys are budgeting for 1.1 though we have no idea what everybody is doing.
If that's really what you guys are doing so if it's at 1.2 do you lose share next year because you budgeted for 1.1 or is it not really the way we work? Well what you do is add back the ships that you have taken off – that’s a relatively short term.
What takes time and takes money is to bring up a mill that’s been idled and the only mill that we have that’s been idled that could come back online is [Shambore] and it’s been down since 2008.
That’s been the type of hire the crew back and to do the necessary maintenance on that mill.
So it’s probably a 12 to 14 month kind of process.
That's long but adding a shift is that a week or is that a couple of months? Depends on where it is but it’s generally 6 to 8 weeks.
Alex one of the other ways we supplement that is by having our teams work overtime.
So you can sort of have a shift in the half by adding overtime or taking the overtime away if the demand is not there.
Okay and then just on Clark County so would that mill be running 24/7 right now but maybe not running all the shifts 24/7? How does that sort of facility your newest and best facility so how does that facility actually run right now? Well as I just talked a minute ago is what we’ve been doing in satisfying our contract woods because we brought that mill up we didn't heavily contract that so it’s a fair amount of open market wood and as a result of the weakness in the market we will take some downtime there but of course we’ve had some logistics issues at that mill getting service from the rail road which continue to be something that all of us -- over the winter is the railroad service levels.
I just wanted to ask on siding because it's interesting you really have seen a very significant improvement in profitability there even through obviously though housing is well below where we were in the previous cycle so it's really secularly driven.
If you start to think about what the earnings power of that business would be in siding when housing does get back to a more normal 1.4 1.5 level? Can you help us frame that opportunity for Louisiana-Pacific? Well I think you have to look at it -- for housing we’re going to get a little bit greater than the recovery in housing.
So housing goes up 10% we should get more than 10% because we have a better product.
In repair remodel that activity is generally kind of a 5 to 10% growth rate and then in the big boxes you get to repair -- you get kind of their growth rate which Home Depot I think gave guidance out that they expect 6% to 7% and the store to store revenue growth in the coming couple of years.
And then the new markets like sheds that’s an area that we’ve been growing in the high teens.
So overall we would expect our siding business to be north of 14% to 15% growth on an annualized basis.
And would the incremental margins be above where it's running right now or would there have to be investment that you would have to put into the business so margin profile would be similar? Maybe even a little bit lower than where it is on that 15% of topline growth? Well for the first part of next year we will be using existing assets that we’ve already made the capital investment.
As you get to the end of the next year then we will add on the additional capital of Swan Valley to that.
So there will be a little more capital required but these should be good margins all the way through the cycle.
And our last question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
I've been on and off this call so hopefully these questions haven’t been asked.
So just talking about the Swan Valley conversion if you look at 2016 and we've seen great growth in the siding market in terms of volume pick up and it’s positive here that Hayward won't be producing siding next year.
But do you expect a 90% 10% OSB siding mix out of that mill depending on the operating rate in 2016 once you are fully up and running on siding? Well it’s a good question Paul.
That is a [24 foot press] which makes it ideal for doing our panel products.
So we’d likely do is move the panel production that’s in our other mills Swan and Swan probably will be primarily a siding mill and then we will go back to Hayward and shift that between siding and OSB.
That makes a lot of sense.
Okay and then the other question I had is just on the pricing premium that we're still seeing in the marketplace between plywood and OSB whether you can comment whether you see that shrinking anytime soon? It’s surprising to be – it’s been as large as it has I would've thought that there would've been more substitution but I don't have a good answer for you.
It seems like plywoods found its equilibrium in non-construction markets so that’s what’s driving that pricing.
Yes and everybody points to higher operating rates as the real prime difference.
Okay thanks very much best of luck going forward.
Great thanks Paul and thanks everyone.
Well Chris I think that was the final question.
So if you could please provide the replay number that would be great and we would like to thank everyone for participating on the call.
As always Mike and Becky are there to answer any of your follow up questions.
Thank you.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen the toll free replay number is 1-888-2860-8010 that's 1-888-286-8010 the access code is 58281501.
I repeat that’s 58281501.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you so much for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2014 Louisiana-Pacific Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Joyce and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Sallie Bailey Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Ms.
Bailey would then turn the call over to Curt Stevens Chief Executive Officer please proceed.
Great.
Well thank you very much Joyce and good morning and good afternoon for those of you on the East Coast.
Thank you for joining our conference call today to discuss LP's financial results for the fourth quarter of 2014 and the year ended December 31 2014.
I am Sallie Bailey LP's Chief Financial Officer and with me today are Curt Stevens LP's Chief Executive Officer; as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley our primary Investor Relations contact.
I'll begin the discussion with a review of the financial results for the fourth quarter of 2014 and the full year.
This will be followed by some comments on the performance of the individual segments and selected balance sheet items.
And after I finish my comments Curt will discuss the general market environment in which LP has been operating and provide his perspective on our operating results and give some thoughts on the outlook.
As we have done in the past we have opened up this call to the public and we are doing a webcast.
That webcast can be accessed at www.lpcorp.com.
Additionally to help with the discussion we’ve provided a presentation with supplemental information that should be reviewed in conjunction with the earnings release.
I will be referencing these slides in my comments this morning.
We filed an 8-K this morning with some supplemental information and expect to file our Form 10-K before the end of the month.
I want to remind all the participants about the forward-looking statements comment on Slide 2 of the presentation.
Please also be aware of the discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial information included on Slide 3 of the presentation.
The appendix attached to the presentation has some of the necessary reconciliations that have been supplemented by the Form 8-K filing we made this morning.
Rather than reading these two statements I incorporate them with this reference.
2014 was a challenging year for LP.
Housing starts grew to just over 1 million starts or 9% higher than 2013.
Single family housing starts grew 5% year-over-year.
At LP we remained focused on activities which are in our control and continue to invest in our future so we’re prepared when U.S.
housing starts return to its historical level.
Moving to Slide 4 of the presentation for discussion of the fourth quarter 2014 and the full year 2014 results.
We reported net sales of $454 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 a 5% decline from the net sales of $480 million reported for the fourth quarter of 2013.
In the fourth quarter of 2014 we reported net loss of $43 million or $0.30 per diluted share.
In the fourth quarter of 2013 we reported net loss of $20 million or $0.15 per diluted share.
The adjusted loss from continued operations for the quarter is $32 million or $0.23 per share based upon a normalized tax rate of 35% and this compares to a loss of $9 million or $0.06 per share in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was negative $17 million in the quarter compared to positive EBITDA of $24 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
On a year-to-date basis we reported $1 billion of net sales a loss of $75 million and a loss per share of $0.53 as compared to net sales of $2.1 billion net income of $177 million and earnings per share of $1.23 for the full year of 2013.
On a non-GAAP basis we reported an adjusted loss from continued operations of $60 million a loss per share of $0.42 and adjusted EBITDA of $44 million for the full year of 2014.
2013 we reported a $121 million of adjusted income from continued operations earnings per share of $0.90 and adjusted EBITDA of $330 million.
The most significant headwind experienced by LP in 2014 was a 26% decrease in OSB pricing.
The lower OSB price impacted operating income and adjusted EBITDA by $298 million which is more than the year-over-year decrease in adjusted EBITDA.
I’ll now move to Slide 5 and review our segment results beginning with OSB.
LP’s OSB segment reported an operating loss of $29 million and $203 million of sales in the quarter compared to operating profit of $7 million and $230 million of sales in the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the quarter we’re reporting negative adjusted EBITDA of $15 million compared to positive EBITDA of $27 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
We had a 1% decrease in volume and pricing for OSB was at 12% over the fourth quarter of 2013.
We took 136 down days during the quarter which equates to approximately 200 million square feet most of the down days are market related.
The utilization of our operating mills in the quarter was approximately 77%.
For the full year OSB had an operating loss of $53 million compared to income of $230 million in 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA in 2014 was $4 million compared to $285 million in 2013.
The impact of lower OSB pricing between the years was $298 million.
Slide 6 reports the results of Siding business.
This segment includes our Smart Side and CanExel siding product.
The siding segment reported sales of $141 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 an increase of 2% from the $138 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The siding segment reported operating income of $14 million compared to $16 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 and adjusted EBITDA of $19 million as compared to $20 million in the same quarter of 2013.
During the quarter the siding segment did not produce any OSB compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 when the siding segment produced 45 million square feet of OSB.
For the quarter Smart Side average sales price were 4% and volumes also increased to 4%.
Volume increase in our Smart Side siding line due to continued penetration in several key focus markets including retail repair remodel and sheds.
However the siding segment was negatively impacted by large shortages in the lake states.
We estimate that the siding business lost 45 days of down days with 27 million square feet of production in the fourth quarter and we estimate the gross margin on the loss sales along with the higher unemployed mill costs decreased adjusted EBITDA by $5 million for the quarter.
CanExel prices were down slightly in U.S.
dollars or up 6% in Canadian dollars.
Canada is CanExel’s primary market.
Volumes were up 11% in the quarter due to higher Canadian and international demand.
And on a year-to-date basis the siding segment recorded $617 million in sale $80 million in profit and $98 million in adjusted EBITDA.
For 2013 the siding segment recorded sales of $174 million profit of $86 million and adjusted EBITDA of $103 million.
In 2014 the volumes of Smart Side increased 13% and prices increased 3%.
The siding segment produced 45 million square feet of OSB in 2014 as compared to 168 million square feet of OSB in 2013.
For the full year the siding segment was negatively impacted by log shortages.
We estimate that the business lost 88 days or 53.8 million square feet of production due to the log shortage.
And we estimate the impact of these log shortages and operating income and adjusted EBITDA was just over $10 million for the year.
Please turn to Slide 7 of the presentation which shows the results for our Engineered Wood Products segment.
The segment includes I-Joist Laminated Strand Lumber Laminated Veneer Lumber plus other related products.
This segment also includes the sale of I-Joist and LVL products produced by the Abitibi joint venture are under our sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood.
In past quarters we’ve included log sales from our [indiscernible] licenses in this segment.
But beginning this quarter and going forward these sales and the associated operating income and adjusted EBITDA are being recorded as part of the other building products category.
The other building products category includes log sales from other non-operating mills.
All prior periods have been adjusted.
The impact on EWPs results on an annual basis has been between $1 million and $1.5 million of adjusted EBITDA in each of the last three years.
The Engineered Wood Products segment reported sales of $66 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 down slightly from the fourth quarter of 2013.
The segment’s operating loss in the fourth quarter of 2014 was $6 million as compared to a loss of $4 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations declined to a negative $4 million as compared to breakeven in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Volumes of I-Joist were down 9% volumes of LVL and LSL were down 3% compared to the same quarter last year.
Pricing was up 3% in I-Joist and 5% in LVL and LSL reflecting price increases in our product.
For 2014 Engineered Wood Products reported net sales of $281 million compared to $250 million in 2013 12% increase.
Sales volumes were up 6% in I-Joist and 9% in LVL and LSL.
In 2014 Engineered Wood Products reported an operating loss of $14 million and reported breakeven adjusted EBITDA as compared to a loss of $15 million and negative EBITDA of $2 million for 2013.
Moving to Slide 8 of the presentation.
For the quarter our South American segment recorded sales of $36 million as compared to $41 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Operating income was $3 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to $2 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
South America’s adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $5 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 which is comparable to the fourth quarter of 2013.
Volumes in Chile were at 16% and lower by 27% in Brazil compared to the same quarter last year.
The sales volumes increase in Chile was primarily the increased demand offset by lower exports.
In Brazil the lower volume was primarily due to reduced exports to the Fareast markets.
Pricing was down 16% in Chile and down 6% in Brazil.
In local currency Chile pricing is 5% lower compared to the same quarter in 2013 due to the continued pricing pressure from North American imports and Brazil recorded 1% improvement in pricing in local currency.
For the full year of 2014 South America recorded net sales of $150 million and adjusted EBITDA of $20 million.
For 2013 South America recorded net sales of $172 million profit of $20 million and adjusted EBITDA of $31 million.
Total selling general and administrative costs were $41 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to $47 million in the same quarter in 2013.
For the full year of 2014 selling general and administrative were about flat between the periods at a $150 million.
For the quarter the reduction in SG&amp;A cost was primarily related to lower incentive compensation.
Now please turn to Slide 9 of the presentation where we note that as of December 31 2014 we had cash cash equivalents investments and restricted cash of $548 million.
Working capital was $778 million net cash of $177 million and in addition to the cash on our balance sheet we had $200 million of availability on our credit facility.
Capital expenditures for the year were $80 million.
Capital expenditures for 2015 are expected to be approximately $130 million of which around $80 million relates to our growth project such as the Swan siding mill conversion and the third Chile mill and we did not repurchase any shares of LP stock during this quarter.
Now I will turn the call over to Curt for his comment.
Thank you Sallie for the review of the fourth quarter and the full year.
My comments today will focus on our accomplishments and challenges during the last year.
We will talk about the current state of the housing market and provide you with my views on what is ahead for us in 2015.
I will conclude by discussing the executive leadership changes that we announced this morning.
From a safety perspective LP had a total incident rate of 0.35 for 2014 the lowest level in LP's history.
This is a ninth year in a row that our total incident rate has been below 1.0.
In addition we completed all of our capital work in 2014 without a single recordable injury to any of the many many contractors that were used on site truly remarkable performance.
For the year housing starts were at just over a million led by a strong fourth quarter performance.
However this is only about a 9% increase compared to the beginning of the year forecast of a 20% plus increase.
This shortfall put pressure on OSB pricing all year and resulted in North Central 7/16’s pricing being $71 or thousand square feet lower than 2013 quite a disappointment for us.
In our siding business we had record shipments of Smart Side for the third year in a row.
This success led us to convert all production at Hayward to siding and to make the decision to accelerate the conversion of our Swan Valley Manitoba OSB mill to siding production.
We expect this to be operational early in the fourth quarter of this year.
In Engineered Wood we again had record shipments of Laminated Strand Lumber products and higher volumes of both I-Joist and LVL than in 2013.
South America weaker economies in both Chile and Brazil plus the stronger U.S.
dollar reduced results but we were still profitable in both of these operations.
That leaves me to a few comments on the housing market.
U.S.
housing starts in December we’re at 1.089 million units with single family starts at their highest level in 6.5 years.
In addition housing starts for both October and November were revised upward.
Housing permits were slightly below starts in December at 1.028 million.
The average 30-year mortgage rate for the week ending January 23 was at 3.66 the lowest levels since the spike in rates in May of 2013.
Last month I attended the International Builders Show in Las Vegas.
Attendance was very strong with an estimate of 125 000 attendees.
From the supplier perspective I would say there was a universal caution as we were all cut off guard by the slow pace of the housing recovery in 2014.
Most are using around 1.1 million housing starts as a base assumption.
Among the builders I would say there was more optimism around housing activity but they expressed concerns in a number of areas costs and availability of prime lots availability of construction labor and upward pressure on labor costs the cost of building products and margin pressure as the ability to raise prices aggressively has dissipated.
Just last night I returned from the policy advisory board meeting at the Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies that was held in Washington DC over the past two days.
This is a group from all facets of the housing industry builders developers producers distributors realtors government agencies who support housing banks and other financial institutions.
I am pleased to say that the general tenure of the meeting was the most positive in five years.
The optimism was broad based but the most discussed item was expected return to the first time homebuyer due to a variety of factors.
Sallie mentioned household formations have been an extremely low level for much of the great recession.
These numbers shot up in the fourth quarter to 3x of what they have been averaging over the last three years.
Job growth and wage increases from the improving economy gave much of the credit for this.
On the financing side the lowering of premiums on mortgage insurance the re-emergence of the 3% down payment loans and more favorable credit standards are making financing more available for the first time homebuyer.
At the meeting there was also a discussion to try to assess the impact of falling oil prices on housing and it appears to be a mixed bag.
In the oil producing areas it doesn't appear that housing activity has slowed but there is certainly a lot of talk about the timing of beginning new housing projects.
Lower fuel prices are adding to consumer confidence which should accelerate household formation a precursor to the first time home sell or apartment.
As an aside we do expect to have lower raw materials costs at our operations due to lower oil pricing primarily resins and energy.
Last December when we put our 2015 budget together we estimated that the savings due to lower oil price was in the range of $25 million to $30 million.
Today with the oil prices hovering just north of $50 a barrel our estimated savings are in the $40 million to $50 million range.
In other markets the National Association of Home Builders Remodeling Index had a record level in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies just released emerging trends in the remodeling market where they concluded that this market will continue to strengthen.
With the strong U.S.
dollar we don't see exports returning any time soon to North America.
For 2015 and 2016 we agree with the forecasters that housing is going to continue to get better.
The consensus forecast for housing starts in 2015 now stands at 1.19 million and 1.426 million in 2016 a 10% increase this year followed by a 20% increase next year.
I will take that.
As I mentioned in our last call we’re using 1.1 million as our 2015 base forecast.
OSB pricing is critically important to us and our financial performance has demonstrated last year.
Clearly pricing was short of expectations in 2014 as new production came online in anticipation of higher housing activity led to an imbalance between supply and demand.
But we don't provide guidance on earnings or OSB prices we do use Force economic advisers as a primary forecasting source.
For 2015 they see an increase of about 8% in OSB prices and further 14% increase in 2016.
We do see the Canadian dollar below the $0.90 level for 2015.
To put this in perspective the change in exchange rate in 2014 compared to 2013 improved our results by about $14 million.
In the near term we have several important projects on our growth agenda.
We have been on allocation our siding business for several months due to long shortages of the lake states and cost production shortfalls.
We have been working diligently to put logs into these mills so we can operate without interruption.
If nature cooperates a bit I think this will happen.
In addition we kicked off an accelerated project to convert our Swan Valley Manitoba OSB mill to siding production early in the fourth quarter.
We have further capital projects under development to add capacity or capabilities at our other siding mills to meet customer demand.
Having available siding capacity ahead of demand it's a very high priority.
South America we have submitted our environmental permits and have initial comments back for our third mill in Chile and we have started the detailed engineering to be ready to begin construction when the permits are approved.
We believe this will be sometime around the end of the summer.
We would always like housing to cover more quickly we are pleased with our positioning in the market and we stand ready to serve the increased housing market activity.
Before I turn over to Sallie for questions and answer I do want to take a few minutes to discuss the management changes that we announced this morning.
The good news is these announcements that we have a broad deep bench within LP to assume important roles.
The bad news is that we will be losing two very talented executives and good friends through retirement.
Here is the summary of the changes.
Rick Olszewski our EVP of Sales and Marketing in South America will be retiring at the end of March of this year.
As Rick’s title demonstrates Rick is both the Senior Sales and Marketing Executive for LP and the Executive In-charge of our South American operations.
For the first responsibility Rick will be replaced by Mike Sims our current VP of OSB Sales with a new title of Senior VP Sales and Marketing.
Mike has over 30 years of experience in the selling and marketing of building products and has held a senior role with LP since we acquired ABTco in 1999.
Because of the increased role of South American LP's growth plans I will be taking over Rick's role in South America and Frederick Price President of LP South America will be reporting directly to me.
Jason Ringblom who has held a variety of sales roles with increasing responsibility over the years will take Mike Sims spot as VP of OSB sales.
Jeff Wagner a longtime EVP and GM of OSB and I’ve have been trying about his retirement plans for some time and decided that Jeff will leave his full time employment with LP around the middle of this year.
In the meantime Jeff will report to me and assume responsibility for an important internal LP project to get better growth and innovation as we know we can't rely solely on the housing recovery.
Brad Southern a longtime LP officer and currently the Senior Vice President and General Manager of siding business will assume Jeff's responsibility as EVP and General Manager of OSB.
[Indiscernible] creates more cascading.
Brian Luoma another longtime LP employee and currently Senior Vice President and GM of Engineered Wood business will replace Brad and become EVP and GM of siding.
Neil Sherman currently our VP of Procurement Logistics will take Brian's position and become Senior Vice President and GM of EWP.
Finally Mike Blosser LP’s VP of EHS will once again add Neil’s prior responsibilities to his portfolio.
Well it seems like a lot of change and once we are able to make all these moves internally as a result of the talent pool within LP in our robust succession planning process.
I am fully confident that each of these changes will bring a new perspective to the position and we will allow our executive management to acquire new skills that will allow for increased responsibility in the future.
I want to publicly thank Jeff for the many contributions he made to LP over 35 years plus career with our company and Rick for bringing sales and marketing to the forefront of historically a manufacturing company in his 8.5 years with LP.
Now I will turn it back over to Sallie for questions.
Alright thank you very much Curt.
Joyce we would like to go in the queue for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Please proceed.
Thank you two things.
Your comment about Jeff in particular peaks my interest we have talked over the years or recently we talk about CanExel and siding but in the past we talked about Radiant Barriers and other value add is this new initiative on your part or is there just more coming through the pipes that needs to be managed? It actually is a new initiative as you know we try to grow through acquisition last year and it became clear that wasn’t going to come to the forefront.
We did engage an outside group to help us with our growth and innovation capabilities.
We have done a lot of it over the years but this just gives us a much more disciplined approach.
And so what we have done is Rick Olszewski and Neil Sherman actually headed up their project for about the end of the last summer until today and Jeff will be taking over that responsibility probably until the middle of the year.
And what it does do for us Mark is that it just gives us much more information on the market sizing where the geographic opportunities might be.
So it should accelerate the growth of some new products plus increase our penetration and geographies where we should be more successful than we have been.
Right that sounds outstanding.
Just one more question.
Given the time you have spent with builders and other folks lately I am just curious if you see anything that suggest that we are going to see a shift in the rate of adoption or the rate of penetration of engineered wood products over this housing recovery? We have seen shifts in size we have seen the shift to multifamily I am just wondering if you are seeing anything that makes you think we are going to see some acceleration? I think it's going to fall on housing growth.
I don't think that we are going to see increased penetration.
A number of things have happened there I think in the past we’ve talked about the lumber going from British Columbia into China that's slowing a little bit which means there is going to be more lumber come out of British Columbia into the U.S.
to help support this market.
So we think that the market shares really haven’t changed all that much even during the recession between engineered wood and solid wood.
It's going to be about the same.
Super.
Thanks.
The next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS please proceed.
Hi good morning.
I was wondering if you could give a little bit more color on what went on in engineered wood in the quarter volumes were pretty weak I guess there was some reference of kind of the stocking how much of that do you think was seasonal versus something else and any signs of that reversing in the first quarter? Sure Gail.
Fundamentally we do believe that there was a fair amount of destocking that occurred in the fourth quarter and that really highlighted sales in the capacity utilization for that business which was down in the fourth quarter.
And we are beginning to see some improvements in the first quarter in orders in EWP and we are having some wins in certain markets in EWP as well.
Okay.
And in terms of the inflation comments on oil I’m just wondering are there any offsets I guess specifically are you currently seeing any relief from the log cost in the west any issues with freight and logistics or is that also is that benefit incorporated in the oil guidance? Yes.
On the transportation side we actually see this as an opportunity for both railroads and truckers to raise their rates.
So we are actually not seeing much reduction in our freight cost in fact we could see a little bit higher pricing particularly coming out of the Canadian railroads because of price increases they put in place plus some of the changes they have made to their AMB routing which has forced us to increase our distribution channel with more reloads and other methods to support our customer.
So we are not seeing on the transportation side.
On the log side we have not seen any relief in the lake states on pricing.
We have seen a little bit more availability but not on the pricing.
In the South we do expect log pricing to come off a little bit but not significantly.
Okay.
And in light of the decline in the Canadian dollar I’m just wondering are you rethinking or have you made any adjustments to your operating footprint? Maybe increasing production out of the West Coast and flowing down in the U.S.
out of Canada and flowing in the U.S.? We keep looking at them one of the and I mentioned in my earlier comments that the expert market has dried up.
We actually shift a fair amount of work both to the Far East and to Russia out of our Canadian operations and that really has come to a standstill with the strong U.S.
dollar plus the havoc that’s going on in Russia.
So we need to replace that volume somewhere else and as a result we have taken some downtime this quarter because of weather and weaker demand.
But we continue to look at the Canadian operations as a good source of parts future.
The only asset that we have that is not running is our mill in Quebec and we do not have any plans this year to start that mill back up.
Okay and with pricing where it is could you envision seeing any kind of incremental actual mass falls versus just downtime? Well I don’t envision that because I do believe that with the market even a 9% increase which is our base forecast versus the 18 and 19 that’s in the forecast would say there is a demand for that word.
But we will do what we have done in the past as we will take market curtailments as we see weaker demand.
Sallie mentioned in the fourth quarter we took 136 days of downtime and we are currently taking downtime at our mills right now.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners please proceed.
Yes good day to you guys Curt and Sallie.
First question is on your CapEx and I might have missed the number if you gave us a guide but could you remind us what that number looks like for ’15 and just give us some directional nuance for ’16 and I know you mentioned the project in Chile but are there other definable projects that you are still working - that you would be working on in ’15 and ’16? Chip our guidance on CapEx for 2015 is a $130 million 50 of that represents what we typically talk about in terms of maintenance the remaining 80 relates to projects like churning our Swan Manitoba OSB mill converting that into a siding mill as well as plans the third Chilean mill.
So the expectation right now is that Swan would be fully converted in 2015 the Chilean mill will look to see what’s going on at economy and think about the timing on that but we expect some expenditure in 2015 and that will move into 2016.
And then we will continue to think about opportunities for growth in our siding businesses if that business continues to grow.
Chip the only color I would give on that is as we look into 2015 our 2016 there are a series of additional projects to match the capabilities of our siding mills to the market demand.
And so we will be rolling those out through ’16 but that’s totally based on the demand for the products and those are well thought out and great return projects.
The only other one is we have been focused on our FlameBlock product particularly for multi-family and a contractor that we used we’re currently out of capacity there so we are determining what we do and that maybe a modest investment that we’ll make internally for both fire-rated in OSB and fire-rated in I-Joist.
Got you.
And just to give us a little bit of feel for things if you kind of go back a few years I know that we haven’t had very many good years in the last five I would say but I do recall that for example in 2000 and I think it was 12 or actually - sorry 2013 was a pretty decent year for OSB.
And I know that here you made about 86 million in siding and I know you have some OSB inside of that segment.
Last year you almost I mean you only made $6 million less you went from 86 to 80 when OSB completely fell down.
So if we kind of stripped out the OSB profits in ’13 I mean how much I mean the peers on the surface to have been quite a big swing upward again in ’14 in siding or at least an up year even though was down for OSB is that fair? That is fair Chip.
In fact there is probably about a $9 million difference between siding profits in 2013 reported in the siding - OSB profits in the siding segment.
So there is a $9 million swing.
So we took 2013 down you would see a pretty good growth in the siding business and as I said we did have record volumes in 2014.
Okay.
Got you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Bill Hoffmann with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Curt could you talk a little bit more sort of how are you planning for what are the downside your housing doesn’t improve like you are thinking and talking with some of these positive signs from an operating standpoint just really either take out of the system or could better balance the market so you had somewhat of a better pricing environment? Well I think what we’re doing today Bill is what we did last year as we saw demand fall let me just backup a minute.
So just to remind everyone when we figure out our OSB business at the beginning of the year we do contract with our customers for volume that doesn’t affect the pricing in general.
But we contract volumes so with the home centers we contracted certain amount of volume with some of the big pro-dealers and some of the others.
So our contracted volume last year was around 80% and it’s about the same this year.
So when we take downtime really what we are playing with is that 20% its open market wood as we have commitments for the other 80%.
Does that make sense? Yes.
So the downtime that we’re taking is if we don't see a demand for the open market wood than we adjust our production schedules to satisfy the demand that we do have from our customers.
Right.
I guess what I am asking is does it make sense to even temporarily - facility for a year to help bring this market back and balance on the 20%? Well so far we believe the best from an economic perspective is to run at the way that we are running because when you do take a mill down I mean you fire all the people you get rid of the customers that you had contracted that mill with and then you have the start-up costs that go with that.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just the other question on the log averages that you have experienced in the fourth quarter is that situation pretty much rectified itself at this point? I would say its better but its still touch and go.
And this is really in the lake state region where they have had some weather issues they have had infrastructure issues there has been competing demand from the mills in that area.
So we are actually bringing wooding from further away or paying more for it.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Good morning Curt.
Good morning Sallie.
What if we can talk first about just OSB and really bridging the difference between the year-over-year decline in EBITDA in that sector you pointed I think to price being about 27 million of that decline and it was a total of about 38.
So the other 11 Curt is that downtime or what else might be in that number? Yes that's downtime.
That's the impact of the higher downtime of the total cost.
Okay.
And I was just curious you are actually down year-over-year on volumes in OSB in the fourth quarter but most of the housing indicators as Curt mentioned were up in the fourth quarter.
So how do we get our heads around that delta? Well Mark as you recall we actually produced more in the third quarter so we failed to add a inventory.
Okay.
Alright that’s fine.
And then just turning to the Latin American business I was just curious about how you see the impacts of the big decline in both the Chile and Peso in the Brazilian AI playing out over the next year or two in that business? Well most of the impact is on our reported results because we translated back into to U.S.
dollars.
Most of the products in Chile is sold in the Chilean Peso so our costs and our expenses are in the same.
In Brazil we have a little a bit of an export market a little bit more of an export market and that is typically in U.S.
dollar so they should benefit a little bit from that as we go forward.
And it’s possible that going back to Chile an unintended consequence of the higher U.S.
dollar would be few of our competitors exporting down into Chile which would help our Chilean operations from a demand point of view and pricing point of view.
Yes because I guess when I listened to your comments on the fourth quarter it seems like things moved in an opposite direction from what I would have expected you talked about more imports coming into the Chilean market and you talked about less exports out of Brazil.
And I would have thought given the weakness in both of those currencies that we would have seen less imports in the Chile and more exports out of Brazil? Yes we are continuing to see exports from the U.S.
into the Chilean market even with the U.S.
dollar where it is and we are seeing that pricing pressure.
It’s not logical Mark.
Right I mean we’re just right.
Almost she used that D word if I didn’t know better.
I guess the last question I had Curt was just on the EWP business and I just I wonder whether your strategy or your market position in EWP is do for a rethink at all? Well as we do with all our businesses we look at our portfolio figure out what makes the more sense I think some of the Sallie’s comments may not picked up on it but we did have a pretty significant series of design wins or wins with major customers in the fourth quarter.
So I do see that business picking up and so we are seeing more activity in engineered wood.
And is being in that business is that is there any connection between that business in the siding business do you have any of the sales and support people that overlap or is that completely separate? The sales people were up quite a bit we do have specialists that’s [indiscernible] as you know you need engineering expertise there.
So those are specifically identified with EWP but the general sales force sells are specialty OSB our siding products and our engineered wood.
So they are calling on the same customers dealers builders.
Okay.
Last thing I was going to ask Curt we just we had some news about another OSB mill in East Texas it’s amazing to me given the difficulties that the market has gone through over the last several years including this last year that people are talking about building more capacity any thoughts? Well first this is a privately held enterprise that has made the announcement.
It's also if you think about it with today's capacity even bringing back two or three mills that are curtailed we can support about a million four to a million five housing starts.
So we get north to that there needs to be a solution for additional capacity not that I am thinking about it but I am just telling what his thinking might be.
And as I understand the announcement is that there were some economic development grants discussed I don't think they were approved but they were discussed.
So I think he is getting ahead of it because you think about it he has got to get site which as far as I know he doesn’t own a site he has just got the economic development grant.
You got to buy the site you got to get the environmental permitting and you got all the equipment and then you got the builder so you are three to four years out.
So if you think about in that context it's not totally wacky plus he needs help so you don't have to talk to shareholders.
Presumably still like to get a return on his money.
Okay that's good enough.
I will turn it over.
Thanks.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with The Buckingham Research Group.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Curt you mentioned that you have got about 80% of your OSB volumes contracted last year and this year.
Is that relatively standard practice for the larger producers or are you an outlier in that regards what do you say? I don't know specifically what they do.
But if you think about the home center business we know what percentage we have and the rest that home center business supply by competitors and home depot alone still do anything but contracting so I assume that on the retail side that there is contracts in place and I also assume the same thing on the big dealers but I can't tell you specifically.
Do you have a very outsized position in home depot and lows would you say relative to the competition? I think our position is probably consistent with our market share.
Okay.
And then switching to siding for a minute if you think about the impact of the log shortages etcetera do you think that you were - that the opportunity cost on the market share is something that’s lost do you think that inventory was pulled out of the channel to - somewhere along the channel to meet where that demand was and so there is kind of capability for you to refill that channel or how should we think about the dynamics of how the log shortages are impacting the siding business? Well I think that the allocation that we went on we maintained our customers loyalty but the shortfall we had in production we lost that to another technology and I don’t think inventories were adjusted.
So that's why we have to always be ahead of siding from a capacity standpoint.
We feel bad about that but we are doing everything we can to recapture that volume.
Okay and then lastly just quick one just trying to understand a little bit you talked about the third mill in Chile as being part of the 130 million it sounded like you were still considering the exact timing of how you want to proceed there.
Can you maybe flush that out a little bit more for us? We have had a third mill on the drawing board for a while in Chile and then we had the - the recession in Brazil we have the fall in copper pricing so we are being very cognizant of what’s going on in those economics.
Now the other piece of this is we are intending to supply other South American countries with this capacity and as you probably know Columbia is doing very well now Peru is coming back Argentina is a mess but assuming we’ve a change in government soon that could come back.
So from timing perspective it's going to be a year construction period and Sallie was the one that was hesitating a little bit.
We expect to get the permitting by the end of the summer.
But to her thinking and I would agree with that is if the Chilean economy remains in the doldrums we might delay that a little bit.
And presumably if that happens then part of the 130 million get shifted to a later time period is that right? That’s correct.
That's correct.
And 20 million or 30 million or what type of order magnitude? It's probably in that range.
I think the numbers we have given before as we thought this was $50 million to $60 million project and again it's a construction period of a year.
Right.
Thanks very much.
The next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
I am on the cell phone so I hope you will hear me.
Got you.
We can hear you.
Great.
So many of the questions have already been answered but with respect to OSB since it's now $20 per thousand square feet below 2014 are we on track possibly for a worse year or can you think the higher volume and the lower run through as we offset pricing? I think answer to your question is when I was at the builder show at the Harvard meeting I talked to some of our distributors and said what are your inventories like they all said they are pretty lean because they give whatever I want right now are pretty well priced.
And still what’s going to happen in March and April this does take off and they also worried about that.
So we didn’t see a little bit of a priming last Friday I think for us in certain regions that did hit our core pricing.
So core pricing and did get a little tick up last week.
So we will see.
Yes I guess its incumbent on all of us to look at the pricing beyond just North Central were so focused on.
But do you believe the industry has in place sufficient capacity to satisfy $1.2 million starts in 2015? And it seems like that’s part of the problem as we’ve been excessively optimistic for couple of years now on OSB demand? Yes I think with what’s running today of a ramp you can score 1.2 yes I do believe that.
The other teams like that’s I guess part of the problem right I mean Clark County is presumably up to full capacity at this stage? We are meeting customer demands Steve.
Okay.
And then switching gears a little bit have you had any early enquiries from customers who are seeking alternative sources of supply now that things are working in our border merry? I can't answer that I’ll have to talk to the traders.
Okay and one final one then on log availability I guess you got lot of snow in the North East this year but it’s not poor vortex banked in this so are you lying sufficient inventories in lake states that we won't have repeat of the shortages that you needed last year? The weather stays where it is now we should be in okay shape I won't say great shape but okay shape.
Okay.
Thanks Curt.
Yes.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Yes thanks.
Good morning Curt and Sallie.
Just a couple of questions one just following up on Steve’s question on OSB pricing we notice that’s down year-to-date and that’s sort of against the seasonal trend do you expect a pick up after President’s Day or when is that usually tractor in terms of an increased order for the home building season for you? Well I can't tell you there is usual year but typically we see out in the early March to mid March is when you see an inflexion point.
That's when the dealers are putting in the inventories for the building season.
Okay and just around the Canadian dollar sensitivity I think you mentioned $14 million benefit in 2014 versus 2013 can you - if Canadian dollar stays at where it is right now below 80 what is the benefit you expect in 2015? Each penny is about $2 million for us.
Okay and then just last question on siding I haven’t seen some updated stats for sort of engineered wood in the siding market and how that’s growing in terms of market share.
Do you have anything that you can update us with and are you still taking share from vinyl and fiber I guess and some wood too? I think the most recent study was a peer study.
Mike would have more details on it than I do but we did take market share against other technologies.
In fact if you just took siding business it looks like we’re in half of the year.
[Indiscernible] for tile which really isn’t a siding product but if you took that out precipice actually gave us a stronger market share than we had thought.
So it's good place to be.
Yes it's great business great I’ll follow up with Mike thanks.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
How are you Curt and Sallie? Good.
Good.
good.
First on the OSB side you talked about the cost of down time in the fourth quarter do you by chance have a number for the full year and how do we think about that downtime cost of potential reversing overtime if it does? Yes.
We don't provide that kind of number really I think Alex you would have to sort of work through I think back in the Mike and see where our costs have been in prior period when we are set to higher capacity utilization.
Okay.
I got that.
And then on the inflation side what's your normal labor inflation run in the business on annual basis and at this point cycle are you thinking about you offset that volume and then price order productivity initiatives in place to be able to just offset the normal labor inflation of the business? Well typically we hold to what is local market determination of our plants are.
That has been running last couple of years at about 3% on the wage side and then on the benefit side we actually had pretty good experience on our healthcare last couple of years.
So we haven’t seen as much of an impact on the healthcare so I think 3% to 4% numbers probably about where it's been.
And on the productivity as you know we are Lean Six Sigma Company and last year we got 5.8 to 1 return on our investment in Lean Six Sigma so we really use that as our continuous improvement approach to the mill.
So most of that actually wage increase gets offset with productivity or the Lean Six Sigma.
Okay got it Curt.
And then in the EWP side there is two public competitors out that are out there I am just looking their numbers one explicitly report the numbers did the other I think you can essentially back into the numbers? Just the profitability above the absolute level and the year-over-year improvement that was just materially ahead where you guys are showing the numbers I mean fundamentally is there a difference in the business? Yes I talked to you last time so let me just tell you again what it is in our business we have owned facilities and then we have partnership facilities and we have sales arrangements.
So for instance in LVL probably a third of our volume we buy from Murphy Plywood and what we get there is we get a sales margins we don't get manufacturing margin.
But we also have no investment in the planning equipment.
In our I-Joist business probably 70% of our I-Joist has come out of the two joint venture mills that we have with [Bowater] and there we again we get the sales margin and we get half of the manufacturing margin but not all of it.
So if you were to look at ROA return on assets we look really really good.
But if you look at just on a margin we don't capture the full margin either on those I-Joist or the JV to only half of it and then on the Murphy we just get the sales margin.
So there is difference in the operating model and we don't own and operate all of our own facilities.
But we adjust for that if you look at the sales pricing between the two other public entities our sales pricing is right on top of maybe little bit ahead and our manufacturing cost are right on top of them but it's the manufacturing margin that we don't enjoy on the Murphy Plywood and only half of it on the I-Joist.
Okay and just one real quick one on the buyback do you have any stated goal in terms of how much buyback you like to do in 2015? No.
Thank you.
There are further questions in queue at this time.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Sallie Bailey.
Great thank you Joyce.
Could you please provide the replay number and I would like to thank everyone for participating in this call.
As always Mike and Becky are here to answer any follow up questions you may have.
Thank you for your participation and have a good day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen as requested the replay number for this conference is 1-866-233-1854 the replay code is 78917817.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Louisiana-Pacific Corp.
Q1 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would like to introduce your host for today's conference Ms.
Sallie Bailey Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Ma'am please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you very much Michelle and good morning.
Thank you for joining our conference call to discuss LP's financial results for the first quarter of 2015.
I am Sallie Bailey LP's Chief Financial Officer and with me today are Curt Stevens LP's Chief Executive Officer; as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley our primary Investor Relations contacts.
I will begin the discussion with a review of the financial results for the first quarter of 2015.
This will be followed by some comments on the performance of individual segments and selected balance sheet items.
After I finish my remarks Curt will discuss the general market environment in which LP has been operating provide his perspective on our operating results and give some thoughts on the outlook.
As we have done in the past we've opened up this call to the public and are doing a webcast.
And that webcast can be accessed at www.lpcorp.com.
Additionally to help with the discussion we have provided a presentation with supplemental information that should be reviewed in conjunction with the earnings release.
I will be referencing these slides in my comment this morning.
We have filed an 8-K this morning with some supplemental information as well as our Form 10-Q.
I want to remind all the participants about the forward-looking statements comment on slide two of the presentation.
Please also be aware of the discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial information included on slide three of the presentation.
The appendix attached to the presentation has some of the necessary reconciliations that have been supplemented by the Form 8-K filing we made this morning.
Rather than reading these two statements I incorporate them with this reference.
The housing market was still in recovery mode for the first quarter of 2015.
The results in our OSB segment reflect the lower pricing environment down 13% from last year and impacted the company's financial results for the quarter.
The reduction in OSB pricing accounts for approximately $29 million of the change in our operating loss and adjusted EBITDA relative to the first quarter of 2014.
The stronger dollar lower raw material costs better plant operating performance and the record selling quarter in our Siding segment offset the impact of the decline in OSB price.
With that let me go into the details.
Moving to slide 4 of the presentation for a discussion of the first quarter 2015 consolidated results.
We are reporting net sales of $472 million for the first quarter of 2015 a 6% increase from the net sales of $445 million reported in the first quarter of 2014.
In the first quarter we recorded a net loss of $35 million or a loss per diluted share of $0.24 as compared to a net loss for the first three months of 2014 of $14 million or a loss of $0.10 per diluted share.
Included in our GAAP results for the quarter is $11.6 million write-off of the timber licenses associated with our indefinitely idle Chambord Québec facility.
Given our ongoing losses in Canada this write-off provides no immediate tax benefit to LP due to our valuation reserves.
The Québec Ministry of Forestry terminated our license in the first quarter of 2015 and Curt will discuss this a bit more in more detail in a few minutes.
The adjusted loss for the quarter was $19 million or a loss of $0.13 per diluted share based upon the normalized tax rate of 35% compared to adjusted loss of $7 million or a loss of $0.05 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $6 million in the quarter compared to $23 million in the first quarter of 2014.
I'll move to slide five and review of our segment results beginning with OSB.
OSB recorded an operating loss of $28 million on $190 million of sales in the quarter compared to an operating loss of $2 million on $195 million of sales in the first quarter of 2014.
For the quarter we are reporting negative adjusted EBITDA of $13 million compared to positive EBITDA of $12 million in the first quarter of 2014.
We have a 14% increase in sales volume and a 4% increase in the OSB segment production.
Pricing for OSB was down 13% over the first quarter of 2014.
The decrease in pricing resulted in lower operating results by about $29 million.
OSB segment took 127 down days or the equivalent of just under 200 million square feet of reduced production during the quarter.
Despite the significant number of down days our cost of sales per MSF improved relative to the first quarter of 2014 as well as the fourth quarter of 2014 due to the impact of the weaker Canadian dollar lower raw material costs and improved operating performance at our Clarke County facility.
Slide six reports the results of the Siding segment.
This segment includes our Smart Side and Careel siding products.
The first quarter of 2015 was a record quarter for the Siding segment for sales operating income and adjusted EBITDA.
The Siding segment reported sales of $174 million in the first quarter of 2015 an increase of 21% from $144 million reported in the first quarter of 2014.
The Siding segment reported operating income of $33 million compared to $19 million in the first quarter of 2014 and adjusted EBITDA of $38 million as compared to $24 million in the same quarter of 2014.
For the second quarter in a row the Siding segment did not produce any OSB.
Consistent with the past several quarters the Siding segment continued to experience higher wood cost.
However we're able to acquire logs to run our facility as is planned and took no downtime in the quarter related to log shortages.
The higher wood cost in the first quarter of 2015 were partially offset by lower resin cost and improved absorption in our manufacturing facility.
The results for the quarter were also positively impacted by improved product mix and higher sales volume.
For the quarter SmartSide average sales prices were up 8% and volumes increased 19%.
Volumes increased in our SmartSide siding line due to continued penetration in several key focus markets including retail repair and remodel markets and sheds.
CanExel prices were flat in U.S.
dollars.
However prices were up 12% in Canadian dollars which is CanExel's primary market.
Volumes were down 18% in the quarter due to decreases in Canadian and international demand.
Please turn to slide seven of the presentation which shows the results for our Engineered Wood Products segment.
This segment includes I-Joist laminated strand lumber laminated veneer lumber plus other related products.
This segment also includes the sale of I-Joist and LVL products produced by the Abitibi joint venture or under our sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood.
The EWP segment did produce 10 million square feet of OSB in the first quarter of 2015 out of the Houlton Maine facility.
The Engineered Wood Products segment recorded sales of $65 million in the first quarter of 2015 up from $62 million in the first quarter of 2014.
The segment's operating loss in the first quarter of 2015 was $4 million as compared to a loss of $3 million in the first quarter of 2014.
For the first quarter of 2015 adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations declined to a negative $400 000 as compared to a positive adjusted EBITDA of $1.3 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Volumes of I-Joist were down 12% primarily due to lower volumes in Western Canada while volumes in LVL and LSL were up 16% compared to the same quarter last year as we focus more on export and industrial markets.
Pricing was up 6% in I-Joist and down 3% in LVL and LSL.
The increase in I-Joists reflects price increases introduced to offset rising raw material costs during 2014.
The decline in LVL and LSL reflects changes in mix through a higher percentage of industrial uses which are sold at a lower price.
Turning to slide eight of the presentation.
For the quarter our South American segment recorded sales of $36 million as compared to $37 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Operating income was $2 million in the first quarter of 2015 compared to $4 million in the first quarter of 2014.
South America's adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $5 million for the first quarter of 2014 as compared to $7 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Volumes in the quarter were up 31% lower by 18% in Brazil compared to the same quarter last year.
The sales volume increase in Chile was primarily due to improved housing demand.
In Brazil the reduction in sales volume was due to the economic recession which led to less demand.
Pricing was down 13% in Chile and down 16% in Brazil and in local currency Chile's pricing was lower by 1% compared with the same quarter in 2014 and Brazil recorded a 3% improvement in pricing.
Total SG&amp;A costs were $39 million in the first quarter of 2015 compared to $41 million in the same quarter of 2014.
For the quarter the reduction in SG&amp;A cost is primarily related to legal costs incurred in 2014 associated with the aborted Ainsworth transaction.
We recorded $2 million of foreign exchange loss in the quarter compared to $4 million loss in the same quarter last year and net interest expense was flat between quarters.
Please refer to slide nine of the presentation.
As of March 31 2015 we have cash cash equivalents investments and restricted cash of $483 million working capital of $742 million net cash of $114 million and in addition to the $483 million of cash on our balance sheet; we had $200 million of availability on our credit facility.
March year-to-date capital expenditures were $15 million.
We do expect capital expenditures for 2015 to be in the range of $120 million to $130 million with over half of this amount related to Swan Valley mill conversion.
We did not repurchase any shares of LP stock during the quarter but we do continue to evaluate opportunities to repurchase shares along with other uses of the company's capital.
Now I'll turn the call over to Curt for his comments.
Thanks Sallie for that review.
Good morning to all of you and thanks for joining us on the call.
Let me start with LP's safety performance.
Last week the APA announced the results of their Safety and Health Awards program for 2014.
I'm pleased that LP was named the safest large company in our industry for the year.
This is the fifth time we have been so recognized in the last seven years.
We also had 10 facilities included in the Incident Free Honor Society.
I'm very proud of all of our employees who recognize the value of being safe and act accordingly.
In addition to the obvious savings in workers' compensation cost LP believes that our safety culture gives us a competitive edge in the hiring and retention of our employees.
This morning I'll provide a few comments on the results of the first quarter talk about the state of the housing market and give you my views for the next several quarters.
After that I'll turn the call back to Sallie for questions.
With two notable exceptions that negatively affected our results OSB pricing and the write-off the wood license LP actually had a pretty good quarter.
Let me just start with a quick review of the two negative items.
OSB pricing has fallen below analysts' projections for the last six quarters and Random Lengths North Central was 12% and already low 2014 pricing level.
The easy scapegoat in Q1 is always the weather.
Well I know this did have an impact; the primary driver of lower pricing was more available supply than demand.
As a result we had to take significant downtime in our mills in the quarter.
In Q2 we continue to evaluate and take market-related downtime as the recovery in new residential demand has been short of economists' projections.
Further while we are meeting commitments to our customers we're also aggressively exploring other applications beyond single-family new construction.
These areas include repair/remodeling industrial transportation and modest exports.
Let me give you some background on the Chambord wood license.
We indefinitely curtail production at the Chambord Québec mill in 2008 as the Great Recession whacked housing.
Over the intervening years we have been in regular contact with the Québec government and we've met all of our mutually agreed upon obligations to retain the license.
Over the last year there's been increasing pressure to use the wood to create jobs in the area.
Unfortunately the government decided that they would not wait for LP to restart the mill and informed us last quarter that they had canceled our wood license.
They will be setting up a project office to review alternative proposals for the wood.
We will be a part of this process and believe that the LP mill is still the best alternative to use the wood in the area.
We do have other options for these assets we were also being exploring.
As to the write-off the accounting rules dictated that we take a non-cash charge for the carrying value of the wood license.
On the positive side as Sallie mentioned our Siding business had a record quarter.
SmartSide shipments revenue and EBITDA.
We did enjoy lower resin costs in Q1 and the lower Canadian Dollar made our operations north of the border more competitive.
Efforts to fully convert our Swan Valley mill to SmartSide production are underway with initial production expected in Q4 of this year.
Next let me just share some views on the housing market.
As you know there are mountains of data on the future of the housing market that are confusing sometimes conflicting and definitely frustrating.
My bottom line is housing is improving but not at the pace forecast by most economists.
Here are some numbers on expected housing starts.
The consensus forecast for this year is 1.153 million which would represent a 15% increase over 2014.
Consensus forecast for 2016 stands at 1.36 million which is a further 18% increase on the forecast for this year.
At LP as I mentioned last quarter we forecast 1.1 million housing starts for 2015 and I believe that still looks like a reasonable number.
In 2016 we expect a 10% to 15% improvement in starts.
Other positive housing-related news household formations accelerated in Q4 to 1.7 million and follow that up with about 1.5 million in Q1 of this year.
This is much better than the anemic 400 000 to 500 000 pace of the last several years.
And when a household is formed this usually means that a home is occupied which is good news for industry.
A Deutsche Bank economist just published a following tidbit which might be of interest.
The number of people per household returns to the 2000 to 2003 level this would lead to 4 million new households a very positive for housing looking forward.
Mortgage rates remain below 4%.
The inventory of new and existing homes for sale is shrinking.
And most of the big builders who have reported first quarter results have mentioned a strong's spring selling season.
Repair/remodel expenditures are expected to be strong and the rental vacancy rate is at the lowest level in 20 years.
So what does this all mean for LP in the next several quarters? With spring finally happening in most of the country and positive momentum in the housing sector we should see increased demand in North America.
Obviously we would like to see an improvement in OSB pricing as well.
With high channel inventories and ready wood in the market we didn't see an increase in pricing or demand in April.
We have taken steps to adjust our production levels to take this into consideration as we focus on meeting our customer commitments while limiting the sale of unprofitable open market wood.
Before I turn it back to Sallie let me make a few comments on South America.
We continue to see high demand in Chile due to increased spending by the government on housing.
And with the terrible floods in Northern Chile 24 000 homes were destroyed and we are helping with emergency shelters.
We're supplying this demand currently from Brazil and as you know we are working on a project to add a third mill into Chile to eliminate the costly freight coming from Brazil.
With that let me turn it back over to Sallie for questions.
Great.
Well thank you Curt.
Michelle we'd like to go to the queue for questions please.
Thank you.
[Operator Instruction] Our first question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning Morning Can you give maybe a little bit more color on the strength in Siding particularly looking at close to 20% volume growth on top of what I think was double-digit growth last year? Was there some sort of catch-up from prior quarters or what you shipped in the quarter is a sustainable level moving forward? Well Gail I'll take that.
We did enjoy a very good quarter in Q1.
A couple things there.
One Siding is not solely tied to single-family new construction.
We have a big repair/remodel portion of that and we also have at least two SKUs in every Home Depot Lowe's and Menards store in North America.
So we've been exploring those other markets and satisfying the needs there.
In the first quarter a little bit of an anomaly is in the repair/remodel business they need to pre-finish – we have a series of pre-finishers that are our customers that then sell directly into the market.
Those pre-finishers don't have the capability of finishing enough product to meet the annual demand unless they do it in the first quarter so there is a little bit of a channel fill for the repair/remodel part of that and we enjoyed those volumes that went into that market.
As far as the sustainability going forward for the next two quarters – actually the next three quarters we'll be constrained until Swan Valley comes online.
As Sallie said we didn't produce any OSB in our Siding mills; we ran them basically at capacity but we also pulled down our inventories in the first quarter.
And we won't have the opportunity to do that in the next couple of quarters.
And I'd add one other thing Gail just to remind you that we did have a Tomahawk expansion last year so we increased the capacity in our Siding business last year with that project.
Okay thanks.
And can you expand a little bit on the comments about inventory channels being pretty full and ready availability? Is your – I mean just how full do you think they are and are they full like ahead of a normal seasonal spring building season or a little bit chunkier than that? Well it's all anecdotal because there's no firm data out there.
But I was actually with a big customer yesterday and what they said is they expected takeaways to be better than they were in April because of the return of the cold weather in the Northwest and the rain in the South – or Northeast rather and the rain in the South.
They said the last couple of weeks however with the warmer weather they are seeing those inventories come down.
So I think it's a three- to four-week kind of issue.
It probably started to dissipate a little bit in the middle of last month.
Okay.
And can you talk a little bit about the wood situation in late state? I guess you're able to get wood; there's just the question at what cost and is there any line of sight for the cost normalizing? Well in the late stage we're in a little bit of a – I mean if you look at the wood supply in that area overall we're in a little bit of a dip but we should come out of that the next couple of years where the growth should significantly exceed the drain.
It's kind of the age classification of the wood there.
What we did is we reach further out principally into Canada and again we were aided by the Canadian exchange rate so that helped us a little bit.
So we are going to pull in wood from Canada to support those mills probably for the next couple of years.
But then at that point in time it also depends on what happens with the pulp mills in the area.
We would expect to see wood costs to come down a little bit.
Okay.
And on Chambord when you're talking about other option is that other option to secure wood for the facility should you choose to restart it? Or is that just other options at the facility other than keeping additional thing that could restart? I think there's three things we're looking at.
One is to get the wood license back so we can run that at full capacity when it's needed in the market.
Second is there is enough non-governmental wood in the area to run that 50% to 60% so we'd look at how we could modify the facility to run at 50% to 60% on OSB and use the other capacity for some other use and I don't know what that might be.
And the third is we have shown an ability to relocate physical assets in other parts of the world.
We would look at Chambord as another opportunity to do that so that be the third option.
Okay.
And then just quickly last quarter I think you had indicated that oil prices to be I think $40 million to $50 million benefit this year.
Is that still your view? And if not can you give an updated estimate? Yeah that is current – our current view is at $50 million number.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning and congratulations on the way you've really managed and grown the Siding business.
Thank you.
Question about that is as we go – if we look at the last few years there does seem to be a seasonal element there and I know that could have been influenced by the fact you used to make more commodity OSB in that segment.
But at any rate it looks like the seasonal rise in revenue has been roughly $20 million from the first to the second quarter.
I just didn't know if there's any reason not to assume something roughly similar not asking you for a specific forecast but are there factors that might have made the first quarter either unusually strong or – and therefore not in the normal pattern? Well as we just said Chip we had – Tomahawk was down as part of the first quarter of last year as we increased the capacity there.
So we added significantly more available capacity in Tomahawk this first quarter than we did last year.
In addition to that we've manufactured probably 40 million square feet of OSB in Hayward last year and we didn't manufacture any this year.
So we utilized the increased capacity at Tomahawk plus the conversion of the OSB we're running through Siding so that allowed us to sell more product.
And we are gaining traction in the – there's no question about that.
We are seeing single-family new constructions coming back a little bit.
We do have a presence in the multi-family with that product.
And then repair/remodel in the non-residential structures have really been the bulk of the growth over the last year.
I see.
So what you're sure of suggesting is not quite the same bump seasonally.
But is there also – as you think about costs going from first to second quarter obviously you're dealing with less winter weather but we do here about wood cost especially in the Upper Midwest being still elevated.
Any thoughts on what you see profitability in that particular segment doing from first to the second? Well from first to second as I said we're probably going to have less volume actually ship because we shipped that inventory in addition to what we produced.
So we're going to be constrained on the volume side until Swan Valley comes up in the fourth quarter.
On the wood costs our guys are saying we're going to be probably about flat on wood cost.
We don't see any big change in Q2.
We plan for the breakup so we're in pretty good shape from that perspective.
Okay.
So I would say volumes modify a little bit not a lot.
I can assure you if we can produce it we'll sell it.
Yeah.
And could you just update us quickly on what you're doing in South America? At this point I know – I believe you're building something down there or moving a plant down there as well.
Yeah.
We're doing a couple of things.
One we are making a very small investment in an I-Joist line that probably will be operational towards the end of the year.
When I say small less than 5 million because we have been shipping product from our Engineered Wood business up here down there and they do think they've got enough demand to begin to run their own.
On the OSB side we applied for the environmental permits last October.
We got the comments from the government in the first quarter of January February.
We have now responded to all those comments and we'll be entering into – I think at the end of this week we'll enter into a 30-day wait period for the government to hear back on that environmental permit.
So we've been doing base engineering.
We have acquired used equipment in the market for a portion of that facility.
Actually probably 75% of it we've acquired to-date.
So the plan is as soon we get the environmental permitting we'll complete the engineering and we hope to get board approval with that – for that project in October and we immediately start construction of that in the summer period in South America.
And maybe with startup like second quarter next year would that be a good guess or maybe later? Probably later than that.
It's probably a 9- to 12-month construction period so it'd probably be towards the end of 2016.
Got you.
Okay helpful.
Thank you Great.
Thanks Chip.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ketan Mamtora with BMO Capital.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Sallie.
Good morning Curt.
Morning.
Good morning.
Just one quick question just coming back to Chambord again.
So should we assume that converting that Chambord machine to Siding is completely ruled out or is that option on the table? We did look at it.
Chambord doesn't have rail which makes it a little bit hard from a logistic standpoint.
What's nice about Swan is it does have rail service directly there.
The other is that the wood species mix and Swan is better for – we consider better for our Siding products than the mix in Chambord.
Chambord needs to be an OSB mill.
Got you.
That's helpful.
And then coming back to Siding obviously it was a very good quarter.
You talked about how volumes could be down a little bit.
But just looking out a little bit on a medium-term basis do you think margins in the 20% range are achievable if you go back to housing starts at 1.4 million 1.5 million? I certainly think they're achievable yes.
Okay that's helpful.
That's all I've got.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Bill Hoffmann with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Curt can you just talk a little bit more about what's going on down in Latin America with the weakness in Brazil? You guys able to operate there.
Are you pushing product out of market and what's the strategy? Well what's hurting us in Brazil right now is when we've acquired that mill most of the product going into Brazil was going into these industrial markets.
So was for hoarding material like construction site it was on packaging it was being used for concrete forming.
And we went in there with the expectation that we could change building practices like we did in Chile and we are but we're doing that in a much slower rate.
With the decline in the Brazilian economy that core business that we acquired that's the business that's declining.
We're actually selling more into new home construction and we're selling more from an export standpoint but we're selling less for that basic hoarding material on concrete forms because there's less activity going on.
But what's been good for us is we've been able to take that excess capacity we have manufacture the product and ship it to Chile to meet this demand that we have in Chile until we have the new mill operating.
But similar to providing product for North America you give all your profits to the shipper.
So shipping it from Brazil actually – to Chile is not any less expensive than shipping it out of the Southern U.S.
Right.
But at least it allows you to run those plants right? So we're running the plant and we're making a contribution from an absorption standpoint but we're not putting the profitability in than we need to.
Got you.
Okay.
And then just on the OSB side one of the things that we've talked about before is diversifying OSB.
I mean obviously Siding has been a great end market but can you just talk a little bit more about what other end markets you feel like you've been able to move product into and what percent of sales you're at at this point and what the targets might be? Yeah.
I can't give you the sales breakdown.
I don't have it in front of me.
But we've been successful probably right after the Great Recession started we started focusing on the furniture market and we've been successful in several manufacturers there.
OSB actually provides better product for the frame of couches and chairs than plywood does.
As we've had some success there we've had some success in the transportation market and that's pretty broad.
That could be inside of trailers inside of trucks be inside of containers.
As we've had some success there I think those are the principal areas.
We are as I said continuing to look at other industrial applications that may have an opportunity.
You can provide – you put a surface on the OSB and actually increase its usefulness.
Any sense on how much your product can go into those other markets or is it going into those other markets? I mean is it like orders or the sales...
It's not that big right now.
It's probably 10% – 5% to 10% right now.
But we do think that there's the opportunity to grow that.
The export market hasn't been that attractive to us with the strong dollar so that's hurt our export business so it's down a little bit.
Okay.
And then just in Engineered Wood Products the decline I-Joist in Q1 what's your outlook for that? Is that market balanced here in Q2 or...
It was almost all in Western Canada it was all pricing because we produce that in California and ship it to Canada in an $0.82 [Canadian] dollar.
The local producers have a huge advantage and we just didn't want to take the loss.
Okay.
Are those markets getting any better? I mean obviously not Canada but can you move it in other markets? Western Canada we did put a price increase but we're frankly focused at domestic markets in the U.S.
and then out of our Eastern Canadian the joint venture we have with Resolute they benefit from the cost.
And so our I-Joist sales into the eastern half of the U.S.
are pretty good from a profitability standpoint.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
A couple quick follow-ups if I could.
First can you give a sense of how much of the volume in Siding was from the drawdown of inventory? Did that account for like 5% or 10% or how much the volume was? I think we drew it down by about 20 million feet about 20 million feet.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And order of magnitude what's the total production in this quarter or volumes? We did about 240 million.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And...
A little less than 10% looks like.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then the Swan River how much capacity will that be adding to the system in terms of capability recognizing you may ramp it up over time? It should add about 450 million square feet.
For OSB it's a little higher than that but can't run it as fast.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So that's as much as a 40% type of increased capability? Yeah.
There's about 1 billion square feet of capacity for strand.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And so is it reasonable to expect? I think you've talked in the past about the market growing at about a 15% clip.
Is it conceivable that you can get that 15% and some catch-up from any constraint that might have developed this year? Is that a reasonable way to think about it for next year? Well first let me just clarify what – if I ever said anything about 15% that would have been our own growth.
The growth of Siding is dependent on level of housing activity and repair/remodel activity and the rest of that.
We think we can grow faster than if we have the capacity.
So we think we should be in the high teens double-digit.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And then shifting real quickly if I could to OSB.
You had indicated you thought it was about a three- to four-week issue in terms of the high channel – the high inventories in the channel and I think you said that you thought it started to reverse in the middle of last month so...
Again anecdotally that's what our customers have said is that they've seen the takeaway from their inventory.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
So is it fair to say that hopefully we're getting close to the point where the inventories in the channel you would think are reasonably balanced or am I misreading that? I think we're a couple of weeks away but that's what it feels like to me.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks very much.
Guys outlined the expansion at Tomahawk and if you could just give us the numbers on that expansion.
And there also was an expansion at Two Harbors was there not? I'm just kind of understand how you've grown that Siding segment in terms of capability over the last couple of years.
We did the expansion at Two Harbors in 2013.
We added about 25% capacity and that was in smaller mills of like 120 million square feet so I think we added 25 million square feet 30 million square feet there and that is – we're producing all of that.
In the Tomahawk it was about a 50% expansion so we probably went from 130 million to 190 million square feet.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And then just on Chambord have you got any kind of legal or financial recourse on that for taking away the license? And then in terms of the wood supply for competing uses I mean is there other mills in that area that would automatically grab that wood or is that – you expect to get that back? We expect to get it back.
I think the premier is from the Lake Sanguinet (38:59) area so it's very sensitive to the jobs in the area.
I think we had a local mayor say if that wood was available my god there'd be a sawmill in here.
So I think it's a little bit of French-Canadian bravado.
We are the logical user of that.
Resolute is the other big user in the area and they're our partner in the JV.
And they think it would be the right thing to do to restart Chambord because we provide the web stock by truck to those operations so it's very convenient from a JV standpoint.
Inc.</span></strong> That makes sense French-Canadians are known for that.
And just lastly on North America flat sales profit down is that all on FX or is there a cost increase in Brazil? No it's mainly FX.
There is a little bit of pressure because there is a small amount of imported product that goes into Chile and puts a cap on pricing so we have had pricing down in real dollars but the FX is the biggest part of that.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
That's all I had.
Thanks guys.
Good luck.
Great.
Thank you Paul.
And I'm showing no further questions at this time and I would like to turn the conference back over to Ms.
Sallie Bailey for any closing comments.
Great.
Well thank you very much Michelle and I'd like to thank everybody for participating in our call today.
As always Mike and Becky are here to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Thank you and we hope you have a very good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Louisiana-Pacific Corp.
Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Sallie Bailey Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please begin.
Great thank you Latoya and good morning.
Thank you for joining our conference call to discuss LP's financial results for the second quarter of 2015.
I am Sallie Bailey LP's Chief Financial Officer and with me today are Curt Stevens LP's Chief Executive Officer as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley our primary Investor Relations contacts.
I will begin the discussion with a review of the financial results for the second quarter of 2015 and this will be followed by some comments on the performance of individual segments and selected balance sheet items.
After I finish my comments Curt will discuss the general market environment in which LP has been operating provide his perspective on our results and give some thoughts on the outlook.
As we have done in the past we have opened up this call to the public and are doing a webcast.
The webcast can be accessed at www.lpcorp.com.
And additionally to help with the discussion we have provided a presentation with supplemental information that should be reviewed in conjunction with the earnings release.
I will be referencing these slides in my comment this morning.
We have filed an 8-K this morning with some supplemental information as well as our Form 10-Q.
I want to remind all of the participants about the forward-looking statements comment on slide two of the presentation.
Please also be aware of the discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial information included on slide three of the presentation.
The appendix attached to the presentation has some of the necessary reconciliations that have been supplemented by the Form 8-K filing we made this morning and rather than reading these two statements I incorporate them with this reference.
For the second quarter of 2015 as compared to the second quarter of 2014 OSB prices were lower by 15% which had a negative impact on LP's financial results of $39 million.
For the first six-month period OSB prices were 14% lower which had negative impact on LP's financial results of $68 million.
Now obviously this caused our second quarter as well as our year-to-date performance to be lower than the same periods in 2014.
These decreases in OSB prices occurred in a market where actual housing starts were 50% higher – 15% higher quarter-over-quarter and 10% higher for the first half of this year as compared to the first six months of 2014.
However the negative impact of the lower 2015 OSB price environment was offset in our results by another strong quarter and six months from the Siding segment.
And with that let me go into the details.
Moving to slide four of the presentation for a discussion of the second quarter 2015 and first half consolidated results.
We are reporting net sales of $493 million for the first quarter of 2015 a 5% decrease from the net sales of $519 million reported in the second quarter of 2014.
In the second quarter we reported a net loss of $20 million a loss of $0.14 per diluted share compared to net income for the second quarter of 2014 of $2 million or $0.01 per diluted share.
The adjusted loss for the quarter was $12 million or a loss per diluted share of $0.08 based upon a normalized tax rate of 35% compared to a loss of $4 million or loss per diluted share of $0.03 for the second quarter of 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $16 million in the quarter compared to $26 million in the second quarter of 2014.
In the first six months of 2015 we reported a net loss of $54 million or a loss per diluted share of $0.38 compared to a net loss for the second quarter of 2014 of $12 million or a loss per diluted share of $0.09.
The adjusted loss for the six-month period was $31 million for a loss per diluted share of $0.22 based upon the normalized tax rate of 35% compared to a loss of $11 million or a loss per diluted share of $0.08 for the first six months of 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $22 million in the first six months of 2015 compared to $49 million in the 2014 comparable period.
Moving now on to slide five and a review of our business segment results starting with OSB.
OSB reported an operating loss of $18 million on sales of $211 million compared to a loss of $6 million on $224 million of sales in the second quarter of 2014.
For the quarter we reported negative adjusted EBITDA of $4 million compared to positive adjusted EBITDA of $8 million in the second quarter of 2014.
We have an 11% increase in sales volume and a 2% increase in production.
We reduced our finished goods inventory in the second quarter and we took 110 days of downtime or the equivalent of 179 million square feet.
Pricing for OSB was lower by 15% over the second quarter of 2014 and the decrease in pricing resulted in lower operating results by $38 million.
For the first six months of 2015 OSB reported an operating loss of $47 million on sales of $401 million compared to a loss of $7 million on $419 million of sales in the first six months of 2014.
For the first six months we reported negative adjusted EBITDA of $17 million compared to positive adjusted EBITDA of $20 million in the first six months of 2014.
Sales were higher by 12% and production was 3% higher.
Year-to-date we have taken 237 days of downtime or the equivalent of 375 million square feet.
Sales prices were lower by 14% and the impact of the lower sales price on OSB operations was $67 million for the first six months of 2015 compared to the prior year.
Offsetting the reduction in sales price for both the quarter and the six-month period was the reduction in raw material costs related to petroleum-based raw material as well as the positive impact of the Canadian currency exchange rate on the cost incurred in our Canadian operations as compared to the same periods in the prior year.
Moving to slide six which reports the results of our Siding business.
This segment includes our SmartSide and CanExel siding product.
The Siding segment reported sales of $164 million in the second quarter of 2015.
Operating income of $29 million and adjusted EBITDA of $35 million as compared to $170 million of sales operating income of $26 million and adjusted EBITDA of $30 million reported in the second quarter of 2014.
For the quarter SmartSide average sales prices were up 4% and volumes decreased 6%.
Volumes decreased in our SmartSide siding line relative to the second quarter of 2014 as well as the first quarter of 2015 as our customers were rebalancing their inventories as sales into Texas and Oklahoma in particular were impacted by the very wet weather.
The conversion of the Swan Valley OSB mill into a siding mill is well underway.
And beginning in the third quarter the results associated with the Swan mill will be included in the Siding segment rather than as part of OSB segment.
Curt will provide more details on the status of the conversion in his comments.
Our CanExel product line reports price decreases of 7% in U.S.
dollars and price increases of 11% in Canadian dollars.
Volumes were up 14% in the quarter due to increases in Canadian demand Canada is CanExel's primary market.
The Siding segment reported $337 million for the first six months of 2015 an increase of 8% from $313 million reported in the first six months of 2014.
The Siding segment reported operating income of $62 million compared to $45 million and adjusted EBITDA of $73 million as compared to $54 million in the same period of 2014.
SmartSide sales prices and volumes were both up 6% for the first six months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014.
The increase in our volume was due to continued penetration in several key focus markets including retail repair and remodel markets and outdoor building products including sheds.
CanExel prices were down 3% in U.S.
dollars however they were up 16% in Canadian dollars.
Sales volumes decreased 5% due to decreased demand primarily from Europe due to discontinuation of certain prefinished colored siding products.
Please turn the slide seven on the presentation which shows the results from our Engineered Wood Products segment.
This segment includes I-Joists laminated strand lumber laminated veneer lumber OSB produced at our Houlton Maine facility plus other related products.
This segment also includes the sale of I-Joist and LVL products produced by the Abitibi joint venture or under our sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood.
The Engineered Wood Products segment reported sales of $72 million in the second quarter of 2015 down from $76 million in the second quarter of 2014.
The segment's operating loss in the second quarter of 2015 was $2 million as compared to $5 million in the second quarter of 2014.
For the second quarter of 2015 adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations improved to a positive $600 000 as compared to a negative $1 million in the second quarter of 2014.
Volumes of I-Joists were down 10% while volumes of LVL and LSL were down 2% compared to the same quarter last year.
Pricing was down 1% in I-Joist and down 3% in LVL and LSL.
And during the quarter and the first six months of 2015 we changed the mix of OSB products at our Houlton operation to produce more value added product.
The impact of this change resulted in improved operating results by $800 000 in the quarter and $1.2 million for the first six months.
For the first six months sales were $137 million essentially flat with the first six months of 2014.
The segment operating loss in the first six months was $6 million as compared to $8 million in the first half of 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA for the first six months of 2015 was also essentially flat with the first six months of 2014.
Moving on to slide eight of the presentation.
For the quarter our South America segment reported sales of $39 million as compared to sales of $42 million from the second quarter of 2014.
Operating income was $2 million in the second quarter of 2015 compared to $4 million in the second quarter of 2014.
South America's adjusted EBITDA was $4 million for the second quarter of 2015 as compared to $7 million in the second quarter of 2014.
Sales volumes in Chile were up 16% and lower by 21% in Brazil compared to the same quarter last year.
The sales volume increase in Chile was primarily due to improved housing demand.
In Brazil reported sales volumes were lower due to the economic recession as well as lower exports to China but this decrease in demand was offset by higher exports to Chile.
Sales of Brazilian products which are sold in Chile are reflected in the Chilean sales volumes.
On a standalone basis Brazil's sales volumes were equal to the second quarter of 2014.
Pricing was down 7% in Chile and down 24% in Brazil in U.S.
dollars.
In local currency Chile's prices was 4% higher than the same quarter in 2014 and Brazil's pricing was about flat with the prior year.
For the first six months our South America segment reported sales of $75 million as compared to $79 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Operating income was $4 million compared to $8 million in the first six months of 2014 and adjusted EBITDA declined to $9 million from $13 million from the same period in 2014.
Total selling general and administrative expenses were $38 million in the second quarter of 2015 compared to $36 million in the same quarter in 2014.
For the quarter the increase in selling general and administrative expenses primarily relate to the higher information technology costs and increased sales and marketing related expenses.
For the six months period our selling general and administrative expenses are flat at $77 million.
The lower legal costs associated with the 2014 Ainsworth acquisition were offset by the increase in information technology costs and the higher sales and marketing expenses.
Turning now to slide nine of the presentation as of June 30 2015 we have cash cash equivalent investments and restricted cash of $501 million working capital of $717 million net cash of $132 million.
And in addition to the $497 million of cash on our balance sheet we had $200 million of availability on our credit facility.
Capital expenditures through June 30 2015 were $34 million.
We generated $42 million of cash from operating activities in the quarter and LP's cash balance increased $13 million in the quarter.
Decreases in inventory and receivables were key drivers of the cash flow generation and operating activity.
Capital expenditures for 2015 are expected to be between $120 million and $130 million with about two-thirds related to growth projects.
And we did not repurchase any stock in the quarter under our authorized stock repurchase plan.
With that I'll turn the call over to Curt for his comments.
Thanks for that review Sallie.
Good morning to all of you and thanks for joining us on the call.
Let me start with LP's safety performance.
For the quarter we slipped a bit in our rolling 12-month total incident rate at the end of June was at 0.41.
Our performance the first half of this year is a reminder that we can never let our attention waver as to the importance of safety.
As an example we had two injuries at a plant that went seven years with no recordables and three injuries at another plant that hadn't had an injury in over 800 000 hours.
Rest assured that we remain focused on the safety of our employees and contractors.
As I typically do on these calls I'll provide a few comments on our results for the second quarter discuss the housing market and give you my views on the next several quarters and the midterm.
After that I'll turn the call back over to Sallie to take your questions.
OSB pricing continues to be below the industry forecaster's projections from the FEA RISI analysts and others.
Random Lengths North Central was 14% below an already low Q2 2014 pricing level.
This was coupled with the wettest May on record for much of the middle of the country including Texas.
As we did in Q1 we took significant downtime in our OSB and EWP businesses in the quarter and also reduced our inventories.
Our Siding business had another very strong quarter with $35 million in adjusted EBITDA.
We did see a slight slip in shipments compared to last year as we believe the wet weather delayed the pace or reorders.
Conversion of our Swan Valley OSB mill to SmartSide production's going well.
We have poured most of the foundations begun making the building modifications and are accepting equipment at the mill on a daily basis.
We are on track to have initial Siding production in Swan Valley in Q4 of this year.
At our board meeting last week we did present and the board approved our project to add FlameBlock coating capacity at one of our OSB mills in Alabama.
This will allow us to expand the production and sale of fire resistant OSB panels for use in multi-family and single-family construction.
It's about a $15 million project and should be complete around the middle of next year.
This is very consistent with our strategy to increase the percentage of value-added OSB in our sales mix.
Next let me share my views of the housing market based on the most recent numbers demand for our products should be much better than we're seeing.
This is quite frustrating.
Let me give you some facts and figures.
For June housing starts came in at 1.174 million almost 10% higher than May.
This puts the second quarter run rate at 1.14 million housing starts 17% higher than Q1.
Permits were even stronger at 1.343 million.
Multi-family continues to be a big part of the growth in both starts and permits.
Coupled with existing home sales with the highest rate in over eight years this certainly points to an accelerating market.
The forecast for future activity are just slightly lower than last quarter as economists appear to be exercising some caution as the strong June housing report numbers are not fully reflected but here are the numbers.
The consensus forecast for 2015 is now 1.122 million housing starts which is a 12% increase over 2014 and the consensus forecast for 2016 stands at 1.315 million housing starts a 17% increase over the 2015 forecast.
As I reported the last two quarters our forecast going into this year was 1.1 million housing starts and that looks to be achievable.
We're just putting together our budget assumptions for next year and we haven't yet landed on a number for starts but I think it's fair to say it'll be somewhere between the current 2015 and 2016 consensus forecast.
Other positive housing-related news household formations continue to exceed the anemic 400 000 to 500 000 pace the last several years and it does appear the millennials are moving out.
The NAHB home builder confidence index reached the highest level in over eight years which bodes well for future activity.
Thirty-year fixed mortgage rates are right about the 4% level.
The inventory of new and existing homes for sale is shrinking.
Most of the big builders who reported second quarter results were optimistic for demand and cautious as to available labor.
With higher sales of existing homes this is good news for repair/remodeling expenditures as well.
Rental rates are increasing and vacancy rates are declining making home ownership a more attractive alternative in many markets.
In the first half this year we did see increasing demand for our products but the very cold weather in the first quarter and the wet weather in the second quarter dampened the demand based on increase in housing starts.
As we look into the second quarter with a hindsight – second half of the year with a hindsight of the June housing numbers certainly my belief that actual housing activity will accelerate in the second half of the year.
Based on our discussions with our customers it is also my belief that channel inventories are in relative balance which means higher housing-related demand should convert to orders which should benefit all of our product lines.
However if I'm wrong we'll have no choice but to take steps to adjust our production levels as we have done in the past to focus on meeting our customer commitments while limiting the sale of unprofitable open market wood.
As I look at the next few years I'm very confident we'll continue to see growth in housing starts as the U.S.
has a fundamental shortage of housing units simply based on demographics.
The recovery has not been at a pace any of us anticipated and there are still some headwinds.
However I believe that the labor issues faced by the builders will ease banks will get back into the business of making loans and millennials will start getting married and having kids.
All this is good news for our shareholders as LP is well positioned to capitalize on the continued recovery in housing repair and remodeling activities.
With that let me turn back to Sallie for Q&amp;A.
Great.
Well thank you Curt.
And thank you Latoya we'd like to go to queue now for questions.
[Operator Instruction] And the first question comes from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Two things we've started to hear from some other players in building materials about opportunities to improve logistics and plant flexibility.
And I'm curious given the growth that you're having in Siding whether the opportunities for you to manage your supply chain differently might be expanding? And a second question you didn't mention sales to Asia from Latin America can you remind us how you think about that opportunity in the medium term? Well let me turn to the logistics question.
We were disadvantaged in logistics for the last couple years primarily with the service we were getting from the Canadian railroads which caused us to put reloads in locations that weren't very cost effective for us.
In the last six months both our Siding business our OSB business have spent a lot more time looking at that.
The railroad performance improved this year and we're also seeing more availability of trucks in the U.S.
So I do think there's an opportunity to bring down our logistics cost.
And as Sallie mentioned we did bring our inventories down pretty significant in the second quarter across all the businesses and a big piece of that was taking them out of the reloads - Okay okay.
...
to make it more efficient for us.
As far as sales to Asia from the U.S.
we look at that very opportunistically.
Most of what we ship from the U.S.
or from Canada into Asia has been going into Korea.
There is some activity in China but that's really kind of at its infancy for us.
The big exports out of North America were going into Russia.
And since the sanctions were put in place that business has basically been eliminated.
We don't do much business there at all.
On South America we did have a decorative OSB product that was going into China and that demand had been sporadic.
And in the last couple quarters we haven't shipped much of that product at all.
Okay that's very helpful.
Thanks Curt.
Thank you.
The next question is from George Staphos of Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for all the comment.
I guess Curt first question I had you said that inventories are more or less in balance.
So just to be maybe a little bit finer point on it so would you say that your inventories are where you'd expect then to be this time of the year? And I realize it's very difficult to call this but from what you can see in terms of your customers and distributors where you think your inventories are above normal normal below normal as we head into the back half of the year.
Well our sales guys talk to our customers so I'll put them in buckets for you.
In general the home centers don't have any excess inventory because they're pulling out of our reloads and VMIs so that from the home center business I don't think it's an issue.
Although I do think the wet weather in May reduced takeaways from the centers.
So we did see reduce demand.
In the pro dealer channel I think they did have more inventory going into Q2 and I think they came out of Q2 with a little more inventory than they expected.
With the July – there's usually a July slowdown from a building standpoint.
We are seeing increased activity at the end of July and going into August.
So I think we're in pretty good shape and I don't think there's a lot of inventory in the channel that's excess at this point.
All right that's helpful Curt appreciate the latter comments there.
Next question I had you talked about Houlton trying to move up the curve in terms of value added products and yet if I was mistaken I thought I saw prices being down and recognizing one mill isn't going to drive the whole mix.
Can you reconcile those two things for us? And then you mentioned that you didn't do any repurchase in the quarter and that's fine you have other growth projects ahead of you but can you comment in terms of why repurchase didn't seem to be as attractive an opportunity in relation to your investment projects in the quarter? Okay I will handle the Houlton question and let Sallie handle the other one.
In Houlton we saw an opportunity to do a value added flooring product in the Houlton mill and that's really what we focused on.
We were looking at it more from a geographic standpoint in the past where we had demand in the local geography back to the earlier question on logistics and we focused on that.
In the second quarter it was really more of the high performance flooring.
Yeah and as it relates to capital allocation George we've looked at the investments that we're making in Swan and there will be some heavy uptick in our capital expenditures in the second half of the year as we finish out the Swan conversion and those have returns on them that are well in excess of our cost of capital.
And likewise with the FlameBlock capital expenditure investment that Curt was talking about those also are good uses of our cash and provide good returns for our shareholders.
So you said FlameBlock could be $50 million five-zero? One-five [$15 million].
Okay very good.
I'll turn it over.
I think we'll be having trouble with the mic.
One-five [$15 million].
One-five [$15 million] thanks for clarifying.
Okay I'll be back.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from Chip Dillon of Vertical Partners.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning.
First question is – I noticed that the Swan Valley mill capacity had always been listed at about 410 million square feet and then it jumped to 520 square feet last year or at least in the K it came out earlier this year and I know that's the one that's being converted.
What caused the capacity to jump like that? Was there any capital that you spent there or was it a change in the mix ahead of the conversion? We were limited on what we could produce from an environmental perspective.
And we had a negotiation with the Manitoba government where we put a stack in that allowed us to run at its full capacity.
So we made that capital addition I think in the first part of last year.
So it's really adding a stack for environmental.
Got you okay.
That's helpful.
Good question Chip.
Okay and then – thank you.
And then the next one is I know in the last call you talked about the Chambord tree license I guess up in Canada and how I guess that's been lost.
I guess two questions.
One is there any chance you might get it back in other words is there another buyer for those trees? And maybe regardless of the answer to that question have you thought about where those assets might be deployed assuming they aren't deployed in Canada or they don't stay in their current location? Well what we look at Chip is we look at three scenarios.
One scenario is we get the license back.
The province has set up a project office in the region and I think we need to respond sometime the end of this quarter early the next quarter with a proposal to them on using that wood.
So one option would be get the license back and run it.
Second option would be to run it with other available wood which means we wouldn't run the full capacity but we can run it probably about two-thirds.
And then the third option was to relocate that equipment to another region that had more favorable wood pricing.
And we're looking at all three of those.
I don't really have an update on that until we decide what we're going to do with the project office again towards the end of this quarter or early next quarter.
No okay that's helpful.
And then on the CapEx and I could go back and look but is the $120 million to $130 million range is that a – I had $130 million in my model I don't know if that's what you said last time or whether you've lowered it slightly to a range? And then if you could give us at least from vantage point of August what next year looks like assuming no major changes in what you're thinking in terms of projects.
Well $130 million is what we've talked about before.
I think the lowering the range because we have had a delay in the environmental permitting in South America.
So the mill in Chile we haven't actually started construction yet so much of that will move into next year as we get through that permitting process.
As far as the capital budget for next year we are meeting as a group on I think at the 18th of this month to go through our capital summit for next year.
So I don't really have a number at this point in time.
It does look like there'll be about a $40 million to $50 million carryover from projects that will start this year that will go into next year but I don't know beyond that.
Got you.
Okay.
So maybe one way to think about that is it sounds like your base is around $40 million or $50 million and so then you had to carryover maybe in the high double-digits and then whatever else you add to that would be what the ultimate number is is that roughly correct? I will tell you at next earnings call.
Okay.
Yeah.
We'll provide some guess but typically we do that at the third quarter call Chip but it's a little early.
I got you.
All right thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ketan Mamtora of BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hi Curt Sallie.
Morning.
First question on OSB.
I'm just trying to bridge the year-over-year EBITDA here.
And you guys mentioned price was a $38 million drag.
Can you help me understand how much costs were lower year-over-year basis? Well the difference is at a very high level.
The difference between the price would be the cost and the cost would be the improvement in resins and then also the impact of the Canadian foreign exchange rate.
And we were ran (32:20) - And - ...
in our mills too.
Right that's a good point.
Clarke County and Peace have improved.
Both Clarke County and Peace Valley have improved.
Got you okay that's helpful.
And then switching gears to Siding can you just help us understand or give us a sense of the ramp up at the Swan Valley and how should we think about Siding production to start with and the interplay between OSB and Siding there? Yeah I think we've – well I've talked about this in the past.
The plan is when we convert Swan to Siding is that we only will run Siding at that mill.
And what we'll do is we'll move production capacity out of our Hayward mill and potentially some of the smaller mills in that region and we'll use Hayward as the swing (32:56).
You recall that's a two line – three or two full lines there so we can run one on Siding and one on OSB.
So that will be the swing on that Swan.
As far as the ramp up we're hoping it's going to go relatively quickly but this is an $85 million project.
It's a pretty big deal.
What we are planning on is that we probably at least in our numbers we're planning on supplying the market out of existing mills until the first quarter.
So we'll use the fourth quarter as a ramp up.
Okay understood.
Thanks very much.
I'll turn it over.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question is from Paul Quinn of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thanks very much.
Good morning.
Couple questions one on price.
We had some price improvement till the beginning of July and then it's come off quite a bit in the last couple weeks.
Just wondering what's really driving that? I wish I could tell you Paul.
I don't have a good theory.
As I said earlier we think it should be better than it is but I don't have a theory.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay and then back to the – your statement on inventory levels in the field but it sounds like you're saying relatively balanced when your competitors came out and said that it was rock bottom levels for pro dealers; how do I reconcile those two? Does that mean they've got more LP product in their yards and less of the competitor? I don't know how you reconcile this.
All I can tell you is Mike Sims our sales guy sit down and talk with his customers and he gave me a pretty good rundown before the call here.
I think you're going to reconcile that with time Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
One of them will play out.
Inc.</span></strong> Best of luck going forward guys.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
I have one quick follow-up first off when you said OSB should be better than it is was that a reference to price or demand or both? I think it's both.
If you look at for the first six months housing starts are up 12% to 13% and OSB production as reported by the APA was only up 6%.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
So seems like it ought to be better than that.
Inc.</span></strong> And it wasn't plywood taking share and you don't seem to think that it was significant inventory destocking any other theories? Well I do think that takeaways were hurt.
I mean the strongest housing market in the country is Texas and Texas had over 16 inches of rain in May so there weren't any starts going on there.
So the takeaways certainly in Texas and Oklahoma that Sallie talked about hurt that but we ought to be seeing accelerating activity.
Now the other side of that is all the builders have talked about labor issues where it's taking them longer to finish a home.
But again as I said I think they're going to start solving that issue as we go forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
I don't want to get too much into the weeds but when you say with all the rain et cetera that there wouldn't have been starts.
Would there possibly have been starts but then they actually slow it up so that the wood doesn't flow.
And I think you talked about business getting a little bit better more recently and maybe they're catching up or is that not how it works from a reporting perspective? Well I don't know how much surge capacity they have again because of the labor issue.
So I think they could build at a pace.
And if you lose a whole month you've got to lose that and move those starts forward but I don't think they have the ability to accelerate.
And the water issue in Texas and Oklahoma is – most of this is slab on grade and you can't pour concrete.
Right.
So you can't really start a house.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
And then lastly I guess one window you definitely do have is where your inventories are at your mills and where are they – I think you said they came down from the end of the first quarter – where would they be versus where they were a year ago? In our OSB mills we're down pretty significantly.
In the Siding business we actually had too low of inventory this time last year.
We've raised that a little bit this year.
So our Siding we're pretty good – where we think we need to be.
Engineered Wood we brought them down.
I think we're in pretty good shape there.
So OSB lower Engineered Wood about the same Siding just a little bit higher right now Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question is from Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Okay.
Good morning guys.
Morning.
Hi Alex.
Couple of ones for you with the correction in the structural lumber price I'm curious if you're seeing customers switch back from Engineered Wood to lumber as lumber prices have corrected? Well it's interesting we just talked about that this morning.
We're seeing a little of it but it's not significant.
Okay.
Actually it's more related to some of the fire codes than it is to pricing.
Okay got it.
So you don't think that that potentially accelerates if lumber prices stay low? Historically it hasn't.
I mean if you look over the last eight years to 10 years that really hasn't gone back.
Got it.
That's helpful Curt.
And then just on imports of panels it sounds like we're seeing that flow on the plywood side.
Obviously you don't have exposure there but I'm curious if you have any thoughts around whether or not the plywood imports could have an impact on your business and whether or not you see potential for maybe OSB to be coming in from other places in the U.S.
– I'm sorry into the U.S.
from other places given how strong the dollar is? Well I think that plywood I saw the import numbers went up but I don't think it's going to have a big impact on us.
We are seeing imported wood from Europe going into South America and that has had some downward pressure on our pricing particularly in Chile.
We have not seen much coming to U.S.
even with a stronger dollar pricing really is about cash breakeven for most U.S.
producers.
So if you're a European producer and you add $100 freight to it I don't think it makes a whole lot of sense.
Yeah that makes sense.
And just last one just on starts.
So the headline numbers certainly look very encouraging but looking at the details especially on the permit side it's almost half of the starts are multi-family.
So do you have any thoughts around what the mix will look like for housing starts over the next 12 months and sort of implications for your business if more of the mix is multi versus single? Yeah we spent a lot of time – we actually had Metrostudy in here last week talked to them and (40:32) the Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies the view is that multi-family has basically recovered so it's back at its historic rate for starts.
And the single family has been buffeted by all these other issues but that growth in the next couple years is going to come from single family not from the multi-family.
Multi-family will probably stay at the level it's at but probably won't be as big a share going forward.
And that's consistent with what Harvard believes Metrostudy believes FEA also believes that.
Got it.
Very good.
Thank you Curt.
Appreciate it.
Thank you Alex.
Thank you.
And the last question is from George Staphos of Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hi everyone two quickies to conclude here.
Sallie I remember you saying on SmartSide that you wanted to be and correct me if I'm wrong ahead of the market over time because you have great demand for the product; in new products you're gaining market share.
If you could where would you sort of index your production relative to market demand at this juncture? And then switching gears just on pricing both for Siding and EWP prices ticked down a little bit sequentially.
I'm assuming that's just seasonality but was there anything else going on that we should be mindful of? Thanks and good luck in the quarter.
Thank you.
On SmartSide we are running in the mid to high 90%s on our current production.
That's why Swan – the timing of the Swan Valley project is so important because that will allow us a couple more years of growth to come out of that mill.
And then we have to start thinking about what the next mill is for siding.
So you're right we want to be ahead.
I think we're probably a quarter behind where I'd like to be I'd rather have that mill coming up next month than in the fourth quarter.
And I think we're in pretty good shape.
We're actually – we were on allocation most of last year.
We did see some improvements in our Tomahawk operations.
So we are off allocation which is good for our customers and good for us.
So I think the timing of the new mill is okay it should have been a little bit earlier but I'm happy with that.
As far as pricing a lot of the pricing is related to the Canadian dollar.
If you look at SmartSide or the CanExel pricing it's all Canadian dollar exchange rate.
But on SmartSide and also on EWP was that also largely driven by currency or is that something else? Well in the case of EWP currency does play a role because we have some export sales in Australia.
There's also mix in EWP and likewise with SmartSide I mean it's down 1% I mean that's you know mix and...
Nickels and dimes I appreciate it.
Thanks very much.
(43:22) Sure thanks.
Thank you.
Okay.
We'll take this one.
Thank you.
And the next question is from Steve Chercover of D.A.
Davidson.
Your line is open.
Good morning and thank you.
I just got on a bit late but I had I guess corollary to George's question.
If SmartSide will be sold out hopefully in another two years three years after Swan is done would the subsequent growth also coming from a conversion or something greenfield? And hopefully it's conversion do you have any mothballed facilities? Can you hear me? One moment looks like the speaker line disconnected.
Curt Sallie? You couldn't hear my question.
Ladies and gentlemen please standby.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today conference call.
You may now disconnect at this time.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Louisiana-Pacific Corp.
Q3 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Ms.
Sallie Bailey Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Louisiana-Pacific Corp.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you very much Chanel.
Good morning and thank you for joining our conference call to discuss LP's financial results for the third quarter of 2015.
I am Sallie Bailey LP's Chief Financial Officer and with me today are Curt Stevens LP's Chief Executive Officer as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley our primary Investor Relations contacts.
I will begin the discussion with a review of the financial results for the third quarter and first nine months of 2015 to be followed by some comments on the performance of the individual segments and selected balance sheet items.
And after I finish my remarks Curt will discuss the general market environment in which LP has been operating provide his perspective on our operating results and give some thoughts on the outlook.
As we have done in the past we have opened up this call to the public and are doing a webcast and that webcast can be accessed at www.lpcorp.com.
Additionally to help with the discussion we have provided a presentation with supplemental information that should be reviewed in conjunction with the earnings release.
I will be referencing these slides in my comments this morning.
We filed an 8-K this morning with some supplemental information as well as our Form 10-Q.
I want to remind all the participants about the forward-looking statements comment on slide two of the presentation.
Please also be aware of the discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial information included on slide three of the presentation.
The appendix attached to the presentation has some of the necessary reconciliations that have been supplemented by the Form 8-K filing we made this morning.
Rather than reading these two statements I incorporate them with this reference.
LP's OSB price in the third quarter was 7% below the third quarter of 2014.
This level of OSB pricing continued to negatively impact our financial results.
However even in this environment all four business segments reported positive adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter and we're reporting the comparable level of adjusted EBITDA on $53 million less in sale for the third quarter of 2015 as compared to the third quarter of 2014 while also absorbing $4.5 million of estimated expense associated with the Swan conversion to a Siding mill and $4 million of foreign exchange loss.
And with that let me go into the details.
Moving to slide four of the presentation for a discussion of the third quarter 2015 and first nine months of 2015 consolidated results; we are reporting net sales of $465 million for the third quarter of 2015 a 10% decrease from the net sales of $518 million reported in the third quarter of 2014.
In the third quarter we recorded a net loss of $27 million compared to a net loss for the third quarter of 2014 of $20 million.
The adjusted loss from continuing operations for the same quarter was $16 million based upon the normalized tax rate of 35% which is comparable to the same periods in 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations of $11 million in the quarter was $1 million less than the third quarter of 2014.
In the first nine months of 2015 we recorded a net loss of $81 million compared to a net loss for the third quarter of 2014 of $33 million.
The adjusted loss for a nine-month period was $47 million based upon a normalized tax rate of 35% compared to $28 million for the first nine months of 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $33 million for the first nine months of 2015 compared to $61 million in the same period of 2014.
Moving on to slide five of – and the review of our segment results beginning with OSB; OSB recorded an operating loss of $11 million on sales of $200 million compared to a loss of $16 million on $233 million of sales in the third quarter of 2014.
For the quarter we reported adjusted EBITDA of $4 million compared to negative adjusted EBITDA of $1 million for the third quarter of 2014.
We have a 9% decrease in sales volume primarily due to the transfer of our Swan Valley facility to the Siding segment.
Overall the company's OSB shipments including shipments from our Swan Hayward and Houlton facilities in the third quarter were 4% below the third quarter of 2014.
Pricing for OSB was lower by 7% compared to the third quarter of 2014.
This decrease in pricing resulted in lower operating results by $16 million.
For the first nine months of 2015 OSB recorded an operating loss of $58 million on net sales of $601 million compared to a loss of $24 million of $652 million of sales in the first nine months of 2014.
For the first nine months we reported negative adjusted EBITDA of $13 million compared to adjusted EBITDA of $19 million in the first nine months of 2014.
Sales volumes were higher by 4% and sales prices were lower by 12%.
The impact of the lower sales price on OSB operations was $81 million for the first nine months of 2015 compared to the prior year.
Offsetting the reduction in sales prices for both the quarter and the nine-month period was a reduction in the raw material costs related to petroleum-based raw materials as well as the positive impact of the Canadian currency exchange rate.
Slide six reports the results of our Siding business.
This segment includes our SmartSide and CanExel siding product as well as small amounts of OSB.
The Siding segment reported net sales of $158 million in the third quarter of 2015 a decrease of 3% from $163 million reported in the third quarter of 2014.
The Siding segment reported operating income of $17 million compared to $21 million in the third quarter of 2014 and adjusted EBITDA of $22 million as compared to $26 million in the same quarter of 2014.
For the quarter SmartSide average sales prices were up 6% and volumes decreased 14%.
We believe that the volume decreased in our SmartSide siding line as our customers especially refinishers rebalanced their inventories as we came off allocation as well as due to the continued impact of the wet weather in the second quarter of 2015.
During the third quarter of 2015 we started the conversion of our Swan Valley OSB mill to a SmartSide mill.
During the majority of the quarter this mill was not operational.
We estimate that the expenses incurred at the Swan Valley facility during the third quarter related to the conversion were approximately $4.5 million.
We produced and sold 57 million square feet of OSB in this segment during the third quarter of 2015.
CanExel prices were down 12% in U.S.
dollars but up 11% in Canadian dollars.
Canada is CanExel's primary market.
Volumes were down 14% in the quarter due to decrease in demand primarily in Europe due to the discontinuation of certain prefinished color siding products.
The Siding segment reported sales of $495 million for the first nine months of 2015 an increase of 4% from $476 million reported in the first nine months of 2014.
Siding segment reported operating income of $79 million and adjusted EBITDA of $95 million for the first nine months of 2015 as compared to $66 million of operating income and $79 million of adjusted EBITDA in the same period of 2014.
SmartSide sales prices were up 6% and volumes were down 1% for the nine months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014.
CanExel sales prices were down 6% in U.S.
dollars however up 12% in Canadian dollars and sales volumes decreased 8%.
Please turn to slide seven of the presentation which shows the results of our Engineered Wood Products segment.
This segment includes I-Joist Laminated Strand Lumber Laminated Veneer Lumber OSB produced at our Houlton Maine facility plus other related products.
This segment also includes the sale of I-Joist and LVL products produced by the Abitibi joint venture under a sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood.
The Engineered Wood Products segment reported sales of $74 million in the third quarter of 2015 down from $77 million in the third quarter of 2014.
The segment's operating loss in the third quarter of 2015 was $1 million as compared to breakeven in the third quarter of 2014.
For the third quarter of 2015 adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations declined by $1 million from the third quarter of 2014 to $3 million.
Volumes of I-Joist were up 5% while volumes of LVL and LSL were down 3% to the same quarter of last year.
Pricing was down 1% in both I-Joist and LVL and LSL.
During the quarter and the first nine months of 2015 we changed the mix of OSB products at our Houlton operations to manufacture primarily value-added flooring product.
The impact of this change improved operating results by $500 000 in the quarter and $2.1 million for the first nine months of 2015.
For the first nine months sales were $211 million down slightly from the same period in 2014.
The segment's operating loss in the first nine months was $7 million as compared to $9 million in the same period of 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA declined by $1 million for the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014.
Turning to slide eight of the presentation; for the quarter our South American segment recorded sales of $27 million as compared to $36 million in the third quarter of 2014.
Operating income was $2 million in the third quarter of 2015 compared to breakeven in the third quarter of 2014.
South America's adjusted EBITDA of $4 million for the third quarter of 2015 was $2 million higher than the same period in 2014.
Volumes in Chile were up 13% and lower by 4% in Brazil compared to the same quarter last year.
The sales volume increase in Chile was primarily due to improved housing demand.
In Brazil the reduction in sales volume was due to reduced industrial demand associated with the economic recession.
Pricing was down 15% in Chile and down 23% in Brazil.
In local currency Chile's pricing was flat with the same quarter in 2014 and Brazil's pricing showed an increase of 21% primarily due to increased exports.
For the first nine months our South American segment recorded sales of $101 million as compared to $115 million in the first nine months of 2014.
Operating income was $7 million compared to $9 million in the first nine months of 2014 and adjusted EBITDA declined to $13 million from $15 million in the same period in 2014.
Total selling general and administrative expenses were $38 million in the quarter of 2015 compared to $32 million in the same quarter of 2014 and $115 million for the first nine months as compared to $109 million for the same period in 2014.
For the quarter and the nine-month period the increase in selling general and administrative expenses is primarily related to higher sales and marketing expenses expenses associated with our corporate initiatives and compensation expense.
We recorded a $4 million foreign exchange loss in the quarter compared to a $1 million loss in the same quarter last year.
For the first nine months we recorded a loss of $6 million compared to a $2 million loss in 2014.
This loss was primarily driven by the devaluation of the Brazilian real and the devaluation's impact on the dollar denominated loan.
These foreign exchange losses are deductions to our adjusted EBITDA.
Interest expense net was flat between the quarters.
Please refer to slide nine of the presentation.
As of September 30 2015 we had cash cash equivalents investments and restricted cash of $468 million working capital of $674 million net cash of $101 million.
In addition to the $468 million of cash on our balance sheet we had $200 million of availability on our credit facility.
Capital expenditures through September 30 2015 were $67 million.
Capital spending for 2015 is expected to be in the range of $120 million to $130 million.
We are still completing our 2016 budget but we expect capital spending for 2016 to be around $100 million for our North American business as we continue to invest in our Siding business.
We also plan to invest in our South American business with our third Chilean mill and we anticipate that the third Chilean mill will be funded by cash on hand in Chile as well as local borrowings.
With that I will turn the call over to Curt for his comments.
Thank you Sallie.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on the call.
Let me first start with LP's safety performance.
Year-to-date our total incident rate for recordable injuries was 0.49 and the rolling 12-month TIR at the end of September was at 0.43.
Significant milestones in the quarter included three years recordable free at our Panguipulli mill in Chile two years injury-free in Clarke County Alabama and three mills that celebrated one year without a recordable injury.
As I typically do on these calls I will provide a few comments on our results and the accomplishments in the quarter discuss the housing market and give you my views on the rest of 2015 and into next year.
After that we will turn it over to Chanel to take questions.
OSB pricing continues to be below the projections from industry experts like FEA RISI analysts and others.
Random Lengths North Central was 7% below an already low Q3 2014 pricing level.
The good news is that we've seen OSB prices as reported by Random Lengths move from about $184 per MSF 3/8" North Central at the end of July to $253 last Friday 13 straight weeks of increases that accumulated to 38% better pricing.
Our Siding business had a reasonable quarter with $22 million in adjusted EBITDA despite the negative impact of the inventory drawdowns particularly at our prefinishing customers and the costs associated with the Swan Valley conversion.
Speaking about the conversion from our Swan Valley OSB mill to SmartSide production I am pleased to report that we produced our first siding board last Friday and the project is on time and on budget.
As you know this will be critical to the ongoing growth of this important business segment.
One other note is we completed that project injury-free both for our own employees as well as the many contractors that we had on site.
EWP was once again a positive EBITDA in the quarter with volume changes that were consistent with the industry as reported by the APA.
In South America our results were nearly double the same quarter last year despite ongoing political and economic turmoil in Brazil and much weaker currencies in both Brazil and in Chile.
In early October a vote was taken among the various governmental agencies to approve the environmental permit for our third mill in Chile and the result was positive.
We are in the mandatory waiting period provided by statute for any further concerns to be raised.
This period will end in late November and assuming nothing is filed we will be in a position to begin this work in earnest.
With the changing government and additional regulations this process has taken longer and been more complicated than we've experienced in the past.
On the housing market there was mostly good news in the U.S.
Census Bureau release on housing on October 20.
For September housing starts came in at a little over 1.2 million while permits were a bit lower at 1.1 million.
This is the sixth month in a row with housing starts over 1 million with the average over this period of time being 1.161 million.
Another positive housing news household formations continue to significantly exceed the anemic pace of the last several years.
In Q1 of this year household formations were 1.5 million.
In Q2 that pace increased to 2.1 million according to Census Bureau data.
Over the last few years there's been a lot of concern about the participation of the Millennial Generation in the housing recovery.
So here's a piece of good news; the 2015 National Association of REALTORS' Home Buyer and Seller Generational Trend Report; that's a mouthful says Millennials now comprise the largest category of homebuyers 32% with 68% of those being first-time homebuyers.
The NAHB Home Builder Confidence Index in September reached the highest level in over 10 years which also bodes well for more activity.
On the financing side the average 30-year fixed mortgage rate for the week ending October 16 was at 3.82% which interesting is below the rate it was a year ago.
With higher sales of existing homes this is also good news for repair and remodeling expenditures.
So the forecast for future housing activity now stand at the consensus for 2015 is 1.125 million a 12% increase over the last year.
And the consensus forecast for 2016 is 1.307 million or 16% increase over the forecast for 2015.
For LP we are using a budget assumption of 1.2 million to 1.25 million for 2016 housing starts.
In the first half of this year we did see somewhat weaker demand for our products probably driven by the very cold weather in the first quarter and wet weather in the second quarter.
This led to a drawdown of inventories early in the third quarter with a pickup in activity in August and September.
This increased demand reflected in the increasing OSB pricing during the last two months of the quarter and into October.
With a more mild fall so far we are continuing to see demand at higher levels which should carry over into 2016.
Based on discussions with customers there's a strong belief that 2016 will have a higher level of activity than this year in all areas; new home construction repair/remodel light commercial and industrial.
This is good for LP as we focus on these broader segments with value propositions to each.
As I look out beyond next year I believe that we will have several more years of housing growth in front of us based on demographics and the slow rate of recovery so far.
The major constraining factors to a more immediate robust housing recovery remain labor at all levels available lots and access to credit for the first-time homebuyer.
I believe that the labor issues faced by the builders will ease either through increased employment or changing construction practices that will reduce the need for labor.
The lot shortage is a result of a multitude of factors that may take longer to address: regulations a shortage of manpower in planning departments funding for infrastructure and higher land pricing.
On the financing side we now know there will be no significant changes to Fannie and Freddie until after the 2016 elections.
It looks like the Fed is going to delay action until December on raising rates and banks should get into the practice of making loans again.
This is good for our stakeholders as LP is well-positioned to capitalize on the continued growth in housing repair and remodeling activities with our product portfolio and focus on growth and innovation to meet our customers' needs.
With that let me turn it over to Chanel for questions.
Thank you.
And our first question comes from Paul Quinn of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Thanks very much and good morning guys.
Just a question on market-related downtime I didn't hear the number for Q3 but I note you took like 127 days in Q1 110 days in Q2.
Just wondering what that number was for Q3 and what the plan is for Q4? Sure Paul.
In the third quarter we took about 50 days of downtime which is about 74 million square feet.
And we don't give indications of the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then just turning on to Siding year-to-date volume is down 1%.
You had a very very strong Q1 and Q2.
Sort of where you missed versus my bullish forecast was really on the Siding side.
Just wondering why you saw it drop in Q3? Well as Sallie mentioned in her comments and I said it as well we look at our customers to find out where we were losing that business.
And principally where we lost business in Q3 was to the prefinishers.
So our prefinish customers took a lot of product in the first quarter and into the second quarter because they don't have the ability to finish it all within the quarter.
So they have to put inventory in place.
And then with the wet weather we had in Q2 they didn't have the outtakes in Q2 so they didn't reorder in Q3.
But it really is tied to those prefinishers now.
Our salespeople have talked to them.
There is no reduction in their business but there was a delay due to the wet weather.
So it really is I think focused at that.
As we look at October we are having a pretty good October I think.
Paul and another way for you to think about it is that as we went on allocation we did see some inventory going into the channel.
And as we've come off allocation we think that inventory will come back sort of on LP's book versus our customers' book.
So there's that dynamic going on as well.
Okay.
And last question I had just on CapEx.
You guided $100 million in 2016 on North America.
What is it in South America for the new mill? Well we don't really know.
What we've said is it depends on the timing as Curt talked about.
But overall we think that mill could cost as much as $50 to $60 (sic) [$50 million to $60 million].
But I think...
Million dollars.
Million dollars; thank you yes.
Thought that went without saying.
Depends on how the currency goes.
But I think the most important takeaway is that Chile does have cash on their balance sheet as well as the ability to fund that locally.
So we will not be paying for that out of our North American cash balances.
Great.
That's all I had.
Look forward to the higher pricing in Q4.
So do we.
So do we.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from George Staphos of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks everyone.
Appreciate all the details.
I guess the first question I had Sallie was the pickup in inventory that we see on the cash flow statement in the quarter was that in any way related to the de-stocking that you had in Siding i.e.
you had more production sitting on your balance sheet than was ultimately taken away by the customers or were they unrelated there? It's mostly logs.
Okay.
The pickup in the inventory is related to logs.
Okay.
And I think you've already covered this but I just wanted to maybe get one last affirmation.
So from your vantage point the slowdown that you saw in Siding you don't think you're losing any ability to penetrate the market.
You are not seeing any sort of competitive response that is slowing your progressions here.
It's purely just timing of customers' inventory relative to your production and things are looking better as we get into the fourth quarter.
That's my conclusion George.
If you look at it by segment our retail business has been pretty good all the way through.
Repair/remodeling business is largely where the finished product goes so repair/remodeling has been off.
And then with new home construction we've seen a tremendous change in the cycle time for building a house going from 90 days to 100 days to 170 days to 180 days.
And the siding is the last thing that goes on the structure.
So we think a little bit of that impact has hit us as well.
Okay.
We also want to call your attention to that we did have a 6% price increase quarter-over-quarter and year-to-date pricing in SmartSide is up 6%.
So...
Okay.
All right so you think maybe there's a little bit of pull-forward as well ahead of whatever pricing you might have had in play? I think the point is that we've been able to maintain price through.
Okay.
And actually increase it year-over-year.
All right.
Thanks for all the details on that Sallie.
One question for Curt; Curt I mean to the extent that you have a view on this or your customers were commenting on the growth in Millennials what's been catalyzing Millennials to finally start buying homes from your viewpoint other than they are sick and tired of living in the basement of their parents' houses? Is there anything else going on in terms of – from a fundamental standpoint that is driving that? And then quick one on OSB and I'll turn it over; from looking at some of our industry data panels year-to-date are relatively flat.
I don't have the breakdown of OSB versus Plywood in that number but I noticed your volumes were up.
Is that do you think OSB gaining market share year-to-date or do you think you've gained market share within OSB year-to-date? Thanks.
Well on the Millennials I think it is the household formations.
Again what I said is 1.1 million in the first quarter on to 2.1 million household formations and a lot of those I think are the Millennials leaving their parents' home and actually forming relationships and beginning to have children because the birthrates are coming back up.
So I think that's what's driving their participation in the market.
It's a long delay when we didn't have jobs for them and now the household formation creation.
On OSB actually our sales in Q2 from a volume standpoint out of the OSB segment were a little bit lower than last year.
So I'm not sure I understand your question.
Well year-to-date I thought your volumes in OSB were up unless I was mistaken.
So year-to-date versus 2014 you were up 4% which is better than my industry indicator.
So I was just – if you had a specific view on that I was curious why you think you are growing a little bit stronger than the panel market overall whether it's OSB gaining share versus Plywood or do you think you've gained share within OSB? That was all within the question.
I think the APA industry stats would say it's up about 4% as well.
So I think we're pretty consistent.
Okay.
So it's then OSB gaining share versus Plywood then.
All right guys.
Thanks I'll turn it over.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Curt it looks to me like your Siding segment could've been a lot worse given the year-over-year volume declines.
So I looked at that performance as actually pretty good.
Can you give me a sense maybe of why we didn't see a bigger hit from that 14% decline? You got some price but I'm just wondering if it was mix that saved you? Well it was mix; it was some price increase but it was also a little bit of mix.
We didn't run any OSB in the third quarter last year.
We did run a little bit of OSB this year.
So that was an offset.
And then the costs in our facilities have actually gotten quite a bit better.
We did have the benefit of raw materials; so we had lower raw materials in MDI resin and then we had a little bit of increase in zinc borate.
But overall our manufacturing costs were lower.
So it's a combination of the price and better manufacturing costs.
Okay that's very helpful.
And one last thing is we've been hearing a lot of chatter about hurricane impact.
Is that going to be meaningful at all to you? I don't think so.
Very good.
Thank you.
We don't have that in our forecast as an upside.
Good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Gail Glazerman of UBS.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Morning.
Curt can you give a little bit more perspective on the recent OSB price rally and what you think drove it? To what extent it might have been on the production side versus just kind of catch-up from the weather issues in the first half? Well I do think the weather issues had some impact on that.
We did take – I will just talk about LP.
We did take some downtime and we also were very careful to sell into real demand and not fill the channel.
We do think the channel got filled in Q1 and Q2 and that affected pricing.
Okay.
And slightly related to that; the 50 million down days is that kind of apples-to-apples to what you were taking earlier in the year or would the outage at Swan maybe have impacted that if you take a little more company look? Well Swan in Q3 of last year produced about 90 million feet.
So the reduction that you saw for the Q3-to-Q3 is almost entirely Swan because we moved that into the Siding segment.
All right.
And Sallie can you give some more details on kind of the raw material costs relief you've seen maybe year-over-year in the third quarter as well as year-to-date? Yes sure.
Overall we've been saying that raw materials would benefit us year-over-year around $50 million.
And we certainly see that occurring maybe even a little bit better.
On the basis of the third quarter of 2015 relative to the third quarter of 2014 logs were probably about the same although we would've seen some improvement in OSB from logs and that would've been offset.
We would have a negative impact of that on our Siding business.
But we saw very positive – probably on a price basis around $10 million quarter-over-quarter for MDIs and waxes and other resin-based inputs.
Okay.
Thank you.
And just one last...
Gail almost all the savings is coming from the resins and waxes that are tied into benchmarks that are oil derivatives.
Okay.
And just one last one question on kind of global trade flows.
Not much but your Chilean prices were down a teeny bit sequentially.
Did you see any sort of uptick in North American flows down to Chile or has the currency situation been enough to kind of keep that in check? We actually saw pressure coming from Europe in imports into Chile.
We didn't see much coming down from the U.S.; mainly from Europe.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Ketan Mamtora of BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Sallie Curt.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Coming back to the raw materials one more time are you seeing any impact from flooding in U.S.
South on your wood costs for Q4? From the flooding? Yes.
Just generally is there any uptick in...
No.
No.
Actually where we operate in Texas wasn't affected that much.
That would've been the primary area.
And then as you know we don't operate in South Carolina but South Carolina did have a disruption of logs for a number of our competitors.
Got you.
Okay.
And then switching to Swan Valley can you just help us provide some sort of guideline on the ramp-up? Because I know this quarter there was a lot of noise between OSB and production and Siding.
But if you can just help us provide some guideline in terms of the ramp-up? Well as I said we made our first board last Friday.
So what we'll be doing is running that mill this week.
We will be identifying the areas that we need to go in and fix and then we will spend most of November and the first part of December making those fixes.
So salable product I would anticipate wouldn't come off till the second half of December and then we are right into the holidays.
So I wouldn't say there's going to be meaningful production out of Swan until January.
Got you.
And so there would obviously not be any OSB production during that time at the mill? Not at Swan.
Right.
Okay.
If you recall Ketan what we said is we would move – if we had excess capacity inside we would move the OSB production to Hayward.
Understood.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Good luck in Q4.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Steve Chercover of D.A.
Davidson.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Steve we won't hang up on you.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
Yes our apologies from last quarter.
That's fine.
I am pretty used to it.
In South America your profit in EBITDA were up $2 million even though the sales were down $10 million.
So was that cost improvement and is it sustainable? Well we are running our mills in Chile at 100%.
Part of the improvement if you recall in Q3 of last year we lost a month of production at one of our mills because we had a flaker go down.
So part of that improvement is that extra month of production in Lautaro.
We have a good cost position in Chile.
Brazil our costs are getting better although we've had a reduction in volume because of the horrible economy there.
And you are saying that it's actually getting more onerous to get the permitting for your new mill down in South America.
If everything went perfect would it be online maybe for mid-2017 or something? No.
Well mid-2017 correct.
That's about right.
So let me just be a little more specific.
What Chile did is they adopted the UN standard on Aboriginal people.
So essentially what we have in Chile now is we have a situation similar to Canada with First Nations where there is a consultative process that you need to bring the Aboriginal people into that.
And it is new for Chile and it's very disjointed.
And that – I guess that impacts logging or it implies that they have to participate in the logging the way the natives in Canada get some of the...
No no that actually isn't the issue because we actually employ in the region where we operate that we do have – the tribe is called Mapuche.
We actually employ about 30% of our workforce so that's not the issue.
It's that they are contending they own the natural resources similar to Canada.
And so you can't get your fiber out of the woods without some kind of agreement with the natives.
In Canada they own 150% of the natural...
Yes I think that's right.
Well with the duplicating claims; okay.
And then on Swan you gave us some indication of how long it will take to be ramped up.
Is there a risk that it undermines pricing for Siding as a whole or you think that the demand is there? No.
I don't think there's any risk at all.
We are really the only producer of that product and we compete against James Hardie in fiber cement and vinyl in some applications.
So I think we have lots of market opportunity.
Overall our Siding business is somewhere in the 6% of the available market.
So we've got a lot of ramp-up in front of us.
Good.
Okay final question.
I agree with you on your 2016 housing forecast of 1.2 million to 1.25 million.
So if the consensus of 1.3 million and change is correct and your peers kind of plan production in line with you will OSB be very tight or is the industry nimble enough to increase production rapidly? I think there's been – let me answer it in a different way.
I was at the Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies and we did a roundtable to look at what housing starts might be.
And the consensus in that room was right at about where we are 1.2 million to 1.25 million with labor being the big issue.
So I don't think I've answered your question directly.
What we have is we do have a fair amount of capacity in front of us.
Even with taking Swan Valley out our Canadian mills are not running at 100%.
So we will have the ability to respond to the increase in demand from housing starts.
Remember the rule of thumb; it's about 1.1 billion square feet of demand for every 100 000 housing starts.
So if we get 150 000 housing starts that means we need another 1.6 billion.
The industry according to APA was running at about 86% last quarter.
We ran about that same number so you can use your calculator to figure that out but I think it's going to be more tight.
Perfect.
Okay.
Thanks Curt.
Thanks Sallie.
Thank you.
Chanel? Chanel? Thank you.
And our next question comes from Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Just wanted to dot a few i's cross a few t's on the Siding just first of all the $4.5 million I assume that was in the Siding business correct? Correct.
That's right Mark.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And second now you noted that Siding pricing had been up year-over-year – or SmartSide to be more precise.
But it was down 3% versus the second quarter.
Is that a mix thing or were there dynamics in the market where there was some give back in pricing? All mix.
Inc.</span></strong> All mix okay.
And then we also had – we produced some OSB in Q3 in Hayward.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And that shows up in the SmartSide price in curiosity? No.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
No.
No it's mix.
It's all mix.
Inc.</span></strong> Sorry.
And then you'd mentioned that October was pretty good.
Are you starting to see favorable year-over-year comparisons volume-wise yet? And maybe asking the question a little bit differently are we done with the de-stocking do you think? I think so.
I think we should have normal takeaways.
Inc.</span></strong> And so would it be fair to say we're positive in October for SmartSide volume-wise? I haven't looked at the numbers so I can't answer that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then lastly I think the sense had been that the Siding business was growing at about a 15% type rate volume-wise.
And then obviously this year we've had a pause and some of the de-stocking being a big factor.
How are you thinking about the growth rate in the Siding business and obviously tying it to housing starts as we look to 2016 and even 2017? Any rules of thumb you could give us? Well we need – I want to be in the low double digits.
I would like to be in the 12% to 14% kind of growth on volume year-over-year.
I can't really take the increase in housing starts because only 40% of the product is going into new construction.
The rest is going to repair/remodel and these outdoor building solutions the sheds and then the retail piece of it.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But I think 12% to 14% should be achievable.
Inc.</span></strong> And there had been a thought process that maybe you've been capacity constrained at one point.
Are you backing away from that perspective? And it looks like there was inventory building going on and that was...
I think there was a de-stocking but also I think when you go on allocation to be honest with you your sales forces isn't as aggressive as they need to be.
Now that we have Swan operational the sales force is going to be a lot more aggressive.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
So lastly and then I will stop beating a dead horse here but – and so do you think this is kind of a one-quarter blip and we should be back on track starting fourth quarter and beyond in Siding? I think it's probably not going to pick up the pace until Q1 when we have the Swan contributing.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Swan Valley mill contributing.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Sean Steuart of TD Securities.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> So the conversion expenses at Swan Valley how much more should we expect to carry into the fourth quarter if anything? Well when we talk about – the $4.5 million is the expenses of the people in running the facility.
It didn't have anything to do with the capital but that was in effect for about half the quarter.
So my guess is the conversion expenses will be in the $6 million range to $7.5 million range in the fourth quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then Curt as you showed with OSB because it is driven by U.S.
housing activity you talked about that driver.
But can you speak to some of the other end markets in OSB? The renovation commercial industrial end markets.
What are you seeing there in terms of demand pull? Well a lot of that we can't really tell where it comes from.
A lot of it does come from the retail.
And if you look at our comparables for Lowe's and Home Depot year-over-year I think they are up 2% to 3% 2% to 4%; so not significant.
And then the pro dealers we have been going through some consolidations as you know with ProBuild and BFS and BMC and Stock.
And so their numbers are up kind of consistent with housing kind of 10% kind of increases.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for the context.
That's all I had.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from – a follow-up question from George Staphos of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Hi guys.
Just some housekeeping at the end; first of all Curt I didn't want to quadruple it but on Millennials and their sort of recovery in terms of housing demand I know household formation drives ultimately construction but what's driving the household formation if again you have a specific view on this from your sources? Historically we found that wage growth in employment has been a driver but I can't really point to that as being a driver here.
So what do you think is going on with household formation? And then my other two questions; Sallie I think you mentioned there were some corporate initiatives in SG&amp;A were those large? What was behind that? And just I think you said the operating rate in OSB this year-to-date was 86%.
Did I hear that correctly for you guys? Thank you.
Yes.
Yes to which one Sallie? Yes to the operating rate.
Yes to the operating rate.
Got it.
On the Millennials we spent a lot of time talking about that particularly at the Harvard meeting.
And if you look at the Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies they just came out with their State of the Nation's Housing.
And there was a section on the Millennials and they do think it's getting a job.
You're right; it hasn't been necessarily a high-paying job but they are getting employed.
And I think there is a lot of help coming from the Baby Boom Generation and helping them make down payments to leave the household.
And that's a bigger trend.
We also spent a lot of time talking about student debt.
And it turns out that according to Harvard most of the student debt that is at risk of being not paid back is from a portion of the population that wouldn't buy homes anyway.
So they don't think that's a big impact on the buying trend for Millennials.
So George was yours a year-to-date question on operating capacity? Yes that's right.
Okay sorry.
That was probably about 80% in the OSB group year-to-date.
Okay.
And 86% then by implication for the third quarter? Yes it's around there; you're right.
And then in terms of the SG&amp;A the biggest piece of that increase really relates to sales and marketing and the people we are putting on the ground to support our Siding business.
Okay.
And so the other items were insignificant in your view? Well I would hesitate to say – if they were insignificant I wouldn't have mentioned them.
So I think we can conclude that they were material enough to be mentioned in my comments and in our Q.
Okay.
Good deal.
We will discuss it offline and look at the Q as well.
Thank you guys; good luck in the quarter.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Chip Dillon of Vertical Research.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
I had a question about the capacity situation out there as you all see it the industry.
And I don't know if either you Sallie or Curt could comment about.
My knowledge is I think you have the Martco plant in I guess Texas but really nothing else.
But maybe you know more about how that's changed.
And when is your best guess as to when the Martco plant opens in Texas? Well as far as new mills that's the only one that I've heard.
Now there's been speculation about some further capacity additions in Europe but in North America I don't know of any others.
There are several mills that are curtailed in the U.S.
including our Chambord Quebec mill that could come back online but I...
Yes.
I don't think Chip we know any more than what we read in Panel Magazine a couple of months ago about the mill in Texas.
Okay.
And then shifting gears I guess this is more for Sallie.
Could you update us as to when some of your timber transactions may unwind or when you have an option date – when you might be at a point where you might let them close or you might extend them? Right.
Those begin being due in 2018 February of 2018.
And there's no ability to extend those.
Got you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Sallie Bailey for closing remarks.
Well great.
Well thank you Chanel.
Thank you all for participating in our call.
As always Mike and Becky are here to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
We appreciate your participation and we hope everybody has a great day.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
That concludes today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Louisiana-Pacific Corporation Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I'll now introduce your host for today's conference Sallie Bailey Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much Ashley and good morning.
Thank you for joining our conference call to discuss LP's financial results for the fourth quarter of 2015 and the full-year 2015.
I am Sallie Bailey LP's Chief Financial Officer and with me today are Curt Stevens LP's Chief Executive Officer as well as Mike Kinney and Becky Barckley our primary Investor Relations contacts.
I will begin the discussion with a review of the financial results for the fourth quarter and the full-year results for 2015.
This will be followed by some comments on the performance of the individual segments and selected balance sheet items.
After I finish my remarks Curt will discuss the general market environment in which LP has been operating provide his perspective on our operating results and give some thoughts on the outlook.
As we have done in the past we have opened up this call to the public and are doing a webcast and that webcast can be accessed at www.lpcorp.com.
Additionally to help with the discussion we have provided a presentation with supplemental information that should be reviewed in conjunction with the earnings release.
I will be referencing these slides this morning in my comments.
We filed an 8-K this morning with some supplemental information and we plan to file our 10-K in the next few weeks.
I want to remind all the participants about the forward-looking statements comment on slide two of the presentation.
And please also be aware of the discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial information included on slide three of the presentation.
The appendix attached to the presentation has some of the necessary reconciliations which have been supplemented by the Form 8-K filing we made this morning.
Rather than reading these two statements I incorporate them with this reference.
A 16% improvement in OSB pricing for the fourth quarter as compared to the third quarter of 2015 and positive adjusted EBITDA for all four segments contributed to stronger earnings for the fourth quarter of 2015.
On a non-GAAP annual basis LP recorded 2% lower sales but 52% higher adjusted EBITDA.
We exited 2015 with lean OSB finished goods inventory low raw material costs and a favorable U.S.
dollar versus Canadian dollar exchange rate.
We are well positioned in 2016 to take advantage of the ongoing U.S.
housing the ongoing recovery in U.S.
housing.
Here are some details behind our earnings report.
Moving to slide four of the presentation for a discussion of the fourth quarter and full year 2015 consolidated results.
We are reporting net sales of $463 million for the fourth quarter of 2015 a 2% increase from the net sales of $454 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2014.
In the fourth quarter we recorded a net loss of $8 million or a loss per diluted share of $0.05 compared to a net loss of $43 million or a loss per diluted share of $0.30 in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The adjusted income from continuing operations for the quarter was $1 million or $0.01 per diluted share based upon a normalized tax rate of 35% as compared to a loss of $32 million or a loss per diluted share of $0.23 reported in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $34 million in the quarter compared to negative adjusted EBITDA of $17 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
For the year ended December 31 2015 we recorded a net loss of $88 million or a loss per diluted share of $0.62 compared to a loss of $75 million or a loss per diluted share of $0.53 for 2014.
The adjusted loss for the year was $46 million or a loss of $0.32 per diluted share based upon a normalized tax rate of 35% compared to a loss of $60 million or $0.42 loss per diluted share in 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $67 million for 2015 compared to $44 million in 2014.
Now moving on to slide five and a review of our segment results starting with OSB.
OSB reported net sales for the fourth quarter of 2015 of $206 million slightly higher than the $203 million of net sales recorded in the fourth quarter of 2014.
OSB reported operating income of $11 million compared to a loss of $29 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
This is the first quarter of operating income in our OSB segment since the fourth quarter of 2013.
And adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations for the quarter was a positive $25 million compared to negative $15 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Pricing for OSB was higher by 10% which resulted in improved operating result by $18 million.
And in addition to the improved OSB price results benefited from reductions in raw material costs as well as the positive impact of the Canadian currency incurred by our Canadian operation as compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
For the fourth quarter of 2015 the average of the U.S.
Canadian exchange rate was $0.75 as compared to $0.88 in the fourth quarter of 2014.
For the full-year OSB reported operating sales of $808 million compared to $855 million down 6% from the prior year and we recorded an operating loss of $46 million compared to $53 million in 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA for 2015 was $12 million compared to $4 million in 2014.
Sales volumes increased 2% and prices decreased 7%.
The decrease in selling price unfavorably impacted operating results by $61 million.
Offsetting the reduction in sales price for the year was a reduction in raw material costs related to petroleum-based raw materials as well as the positive impact of the Canadian currency exchange rates on the cost incurred by our Canadian operations as compared to the prior year.
For the full year of 2015 the average U.S.
dollar Canadian exchange rate was $0.78 as compared to $0.91 in 2014.
On slide six we report the results of the siding business.
This segment includes our Smart Side and CanExel siding products as well as a minor amount of OSB.
Our siding segment had record sales had a record year for sales operating income and adjusted EBITDA.
For the fourth quarter of 2015 the siding segment reported sales of $141 million operating income of $14 million and adjusted EBITDA of $19 million all comparable to the fourth quarter of 2014.
For the quarter Smart Side average sales were up 2% and volumes decreased 5%.
Volumes decreased in our Smart Side siding line due to the customers continuing to rebalance their inventories based upon expected housing starts and labor availability which have slowed housing completion.
During the third quarter of 2015 we began the conversion of our Swan Valley OSB mill to a SmartSide mill and during the majority of the fourth quarter this mill was not operational.
It is estimated that the additional cost incurred of the Swan Valley facility during the fourth quarter related to that conversion as well as market-related downtime was approximately $6 million.
For the year the Siding segment reported sales of $636 million an increase of 3% from $617 million reported in 2014.
Siding segment reported operating income of $93 million compared to $80 million and adjusted EBITDA of $114 million as compared to $98 million in 2014.
The estimated impact of the additional cost incurred at the Swan Valley facility for the full year was approximately $11 million.
Now please turn to slide seven of the presentation which shows the results of our Engineered Wood Products.
This segment includes I-Joist Laminated Strand Lumber Laminated Veneer Lumber OSB produced at our Houlton Maine facility plus other related products.
This segment also includes the sale of I-Joist and LVL products produced by the Abitibi joint venture under our sales arrangement with Murphy Plywood.
The Engineered Wood Products segment recorded sales of $75 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 up from $66 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The segment's results were break even in the fourth quarter of 2015 as compared to a loss of $6 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
For the fourth quarter of 2015 adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations improved to $3 million as compared to negative $4 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The best quarter in EWP since the third quarter of 2014.
Volumes of I-Joist were up 21% while volumes of LVL and LSL were up 29% compared to the same quarter last year.
Pricing was lower by 1% in LVL and LSL and higher by 5% I'm sorry higher by 4% in I-Joist.
During the quarter and the full year of 2015 we changed the mix of OSB products at our Houlton operations manufacturing more value-added OSB and less commodity products.
The impact of this change resulted in improving operating results of $800 000 in the quarter and $3.5 million for the full year.
For the year sales were $286 million up from $281 million in 2014.
The segment's operating loss in 2015 was $7 million as compared to $14 million in the same period of 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA improved to $6 million for 2015 from breakeven in 2014.
Moving onto slide eight of the presentation; for the quarter our South American segment reported sales of $34 million as compared to $36 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Operating income was $3 million and adjusted EBITDA was $5 million for the fourth quarter of 2015 essentially flat with the fourth quarter of 2014.
Volumes in Chile were up 9% and up 15% in Brazil compared to the same quarter last year.
The sales volume increase in Chile was due to improved housing demand and the increase in Brazil was due to increased exports.
Brazil continues to be in an economic recession with continued political upheaval.
Pricing was down 12% in Chile and down 23% in Brazil.
In local currency Chile's pricing was up 3% with the same quarter in 2014 and Brazil's pricing was up 13% primarily due to the impact of higher exports.
For the year our South American segment recorded sales of $135 million as compared to $150 million in 2014.
Operating income was $10 million for 2015 compared to $11 million in 2014.
And adjusted EBITDA declined to $18 million from $20 million in the same period of 2014.
Total selling general and administrative expenses were $38 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to $41 million in the same quarter of 2014.
For the quarter the decrease in selling general and administrative expenses is primarily due to the lower compensation expense.
For the year our selling general and administrative expenses are higher at $153 million as compared to $150 million for 2014 primarily due to higher sales and marketing expenses.
Please refer to slide nine of the presentation.
As of December 31 2015 we had cash cash equivalents investments in restricted cash of $455 million working capital of $626 million net cash of $88 million and in addition to the $455 million of cash on our balance sheet we have $200 million of availability on our credit facility.
Capital expenditures for 2015 were $114 million.
We are planning on spending between $120 million and $135 million in capital expenditures for 2016.
Approximately $100 million has been allocated to North American projects 50% for growth and the remaining for capital maintenance and cost reduction projects.
The remaining $35 million has been allocated to our South American segment primarily for the building of the third mill in Chile and we anticipate that the South American capital expenditures will be funded by cash on hand in Chile as well as local bank financing.
Now I'll turn the call over to Curt for his comments.
Thanks for that review Sallie.
Good morning to all of you and thanks for joining us on the call.
Let me start with LP's safety performance.
For the full-year our total incident rate for recordable injuries or TIR was 0.47 which is the 10th year in a row that LP was below 1.0.
Another impressive statistic that demonstrates LP's commitment to safety is that for the second year in a row the contractors that we in use our capital projects went injury free a remarkable accomplishment.
As I typically do on these calls I'll provide a few comments on our results and accomplishments in the fourth quarter and year discuss the housing market and give you my views for 2016.
After that I will turn it back over to Sallie to take your questions.
As Sallie just reported all of our segments recorded positive EBITDA in the fourth quarter.
For the full year our EBITDA improved by over 50% despite a $62 million negative impact to both sales and EBITDA due to lower OSB prices than the prior year.
As Sallie also mentioned we did benefit from lower raw materials costs and a favorable Canadian exchange rate.
On our OSB business we reacted to lower sales prices by holding our sales volumes relatively flat with lower production due to the conversion of Swan Valley to siding in the second half of the year.
We were able to ship the same amount by bringing down inventory of finished goods across the system.
This means that we entered the first quarter with very lean inventories which should be beneficial as the building season resumes in a month or so.
We had the most profitable year ever in our Siding business with a 16% increase in EBITDA despite absorbing about a $10 million cost in the second half of the year associated with the Swan Valley conversion.
With Swan operating we have unleashed our sales force to return us to the growth rates that we've demonstrated in the past.
Engineered Wood with over $3 million in EBITDA recorded the best quarterly results in many years.
For the year EWP had adjusted EBITDA of almost $6 million compared to breakeven last year.
In South America we had another strong year although reported results reflect a significant weakening of the Chilean peso about 15% and the Brazilian real over 50% against the U.S.
dollar.
Following approval by the various governmental agencies of our environmental permit for our third mill in Chile last October we did get through the mandatory waiting period.
This is good news as we're in a sold out position in Chile and we are seeing improving economies in Argentina and Colombia.
I am anticipating that our Board will approve this project next summer and the construction will begin shortly thereafter.
The news about the housing market continues to be good.
However it has not been as strong as forecasted.
U.S.
Census Bureau released their data on housing on January 20.
For December housing starts came in at 1.149 million while permits were higher at 1.232 million.
Other positive housing-related news includes while the rate of the household formations fell a bit in the fourth quarter we did end last year with an average of 1.7 million household formations which is significantly higher more than doubled in the last few years.
This could mean that the Millennials are finally on the move.
Medium home prices for the year were up 7.6% and December marked the 46th consecutive month of the year-over-year gains.
First-time homebuyers purchased about 30% of the existing homes in 2015 and this was up slightly from last year.
The total inventory of housing for sale is 3% lower than a year ago which is creating some shortages.
On the financing side average 30-year fixed-rate mortgage rates were at 3.92% and this is for the week ending January 15.
So when we look at the consensus forecast for this year it currently stands at 1.263 million which is about a 14% increase over last year.
The consensus for 2017 is 1.385 million which is a further 10% increase.
For LP we're using a budget assumption of 1.2 million to 1.25 million for 2016.
Nonresidential construction an area that we do participate in was up 9.3% through the end of November.
The five most important sub-sectors for structural panel demand are commercial offices religious healthcare and schools registered an increase of 22% for office building and 5% for healthcare and religious buildings.
Finally sales of building materials and supply dealers were up about 4% in 2015 compared to the prior year.
So our view for 2016 I just returned from the policy advisory board meeting of the Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies held in Washington DC earlier this week.
While almost all the participants share the view that 2016 will continue to show that 10% to 12% growth in new housing and a continuation of demand in repair and remodeling to a person these CEOs expressed dismay surrounding the current political situation frustration with financial markets and increasing concern about the more restrictive regulatory environment.
So with that being said I do share that as we look back at 2016 post election I do believe that housing will be one of the few bright spots in the economy.
For LP January order rates were strong for Siding and EWP and a bit muted for OSB as reflected by a slightly declining price during the month.
In the first part of January we did have our annual sales meeting and also attended the International Builders Show in Las Vegas.
At these two events we had a chance to talk to our field sales folks builders and channel partners.
I'd summarize that the overwhelming sentiment was cautious optimism.
Almost universally there was a feeling the housing and repair and remodel markets in 2016 will be stronger than 2015 but there are some headwinds.
Based on the forecast it does appear that multi-family housing will be a little over 35% of the mix in the U.S.
for the next few years.
Additionally with the aging baby boomers and the explosion of the sharing economy like Airbnb we are increasingly seeing builders of single family units add square footage to accommodate an elderly relative or short-term renter in a separate space.
This has probably showed up in that the average size of single family new construction 2015 was the highest ever.
In Canada we did see a decline in housing starts in the fourth quarter primarily focused on lower multi-family starts in Ontario and a cutback in the prairie provinces associated with oil sands.
In 2015 starts were almost 200 000 units and we forecast this to be lower by about 5%.
South America the outlook continues to be mixed.
Brazil is clearly struggling with an untenable political situation and continued economic downturn.
The bright spot for LP's operation in Brazil is that the dramatically lower Brazilian Real has created some export opportunities for us.
In Chile lower copper prices have hurt the economy but the government continues to take an active role in funding replacement housing that was destroyed by natural disasters which benefits LP.
Change in government in Argentina and the immediate relaxing of import export controls should lead to higher volumes into this country and the continued emergence of the Colombian economy also creates export demand for our products in South America.
On retail demand both Home Depot and Lowe's have given forecasts of same-store sales being an upward of 5% range for 2016.
On the longer term there has been nothing that has happened recently to change my outlook as I continue to believe that we have several more years of housing growth in front of us based on the underbuilding during the last decade population demographics and the slow rate of recovery so far.
As I've said in the past the constraining factors to more immediate robust housing labor at all levels available lots and access to credit for the first time homebuyer.
Again as I said before I believe the labor issues faced with the builders will ease either through increased employment or changing construction practices that will reduce the need for labor.
The lot shortage continues to be resolved on multiple – due to factors including regulations a shortage of manpower in planning departments and funding for infrastructure.
On the financing side we know there will be no significant changes to Fannie and Freddie until after the 2016 elections.
The Fed interest rate hike in December had very little impact on mortgage rates and based on Fed Chairman's results or comments yesterday it looks like they will be very cautiously consider additional rate hikes.
The other interesting trend that is happening is the traditional depository banks with the exception of Wells Fargo have essentially withdrawn from the FHA mortgage market due to increased reserves documentation requirements and continued litigation risk from federal and state regulators.
The good news is new entrants like Quicken Loans with their Super Bowl commercial are taking up the slack.
As we look at the forecast demand for our products the challenges faced by builders and the emerging trends there is much that LP can and is doing to take advantage of these opportunities.
Let me give you some concrete examples.
In single-family new construction we have had very good success in growing the TechShield Radiant Barrier Sheathing brand to address energy requirements in a number of jurisdictions.
We expect to continue this push.
In the – the urban interface zones in places like California and Colorado the requirement for fire retardancy has given lift to our FlameBlock product.
This is also true in Pennsylvania and Ohio where codes have changed related to fire burn through in the floors above unfinished basements.
Our newly released FlameBlock I-Joist addresses this need.
In multifamily these projects also require increased fire retardancy acoustical performance and low maintenance durable siding.
In January I was joined by Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama and other dignitaries at the groundbreaking of a $15 million project to add FlameBlock capability to our existing Clarke County Alabama mill.
This post processing facility will augment the capacity that we have available through our relationship with International Barrier Technology.
Not only does this meet the technical needs defined by the various building codes it also lowers the labor content adds structural integrity and gives the architect more design flexibility.
With our Smart Side siding products including (25:20) a builder of multifamily projects will have both the best looking product available but also the durability to survive harsh treatment from renters.
And like commercial our EWP products have long played a role in the segment as the ease-of-use and design flexibility critical to the architect and builder.
At the recent International Builders Show we introduced a substrate panel that can be used to replicate a stucco look with less cost and less labor.
This is important both to light commercial as well as other areas like the Southwest where stucco is a preferred finish.
South America we see very good opportunities to expand and grow our business there.
As mentioned earlier we've cleared all the necessary hurdles for our environmental permitting for a third mill in Chile that will serve the domestic market as well as other countries on the continent.
Our plan is to redeploy existing equipment as we've done in the past to limit the capital investment to $55 million to $60 million.
The timing of this construction is likely to be later this year.
On the industrial side we continue to develop products for markets beyond residential construction.
In this category we include panels used in furniture manufacturing various transportation applications and substrates used for decorative panels cabinetry and the interior panels.
So in conclusion the continued rise in housing activity more normalized repair and remodeling activity and new uses for our current products is good for our stakeholders as LP is well-positioned to capitalize on this growth.
Further we're committed to innovation to meet our customers' needs for products efficiencies and affordable costs.
With that let me turn it over Sallie for the Q&amp;A.
Great.
Well thank you Curt.
Ashley we're ready to go to questions if there are any in the queue.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Ketan Mamtora of BMO.
Your line is open.
Good morning Sallie Curt.
Good morning.
Good morning.
First question on Siding.
Can you provide a little more color on the big drop in volumes both in production and sales? Well as we said in earlier quarters we were in a sold out position we were on allocation.
So we really didn't have any more product to sell until the Swan Valley facility came online in the October late October early November timeframe and we've been ramping up that production.
So what we have been doing – and comment I made is unleashing the sales force that is in fact exactly what we did at our International Sales meeting in early January.
We have armed our sales force with the tools necessary to get us back on the growth rate from a volume standpoint.
I would hasten to add though if you look at our record results from an EBITDA standpoint when you're on allocation you do have the opportunity to high grade your customer mix if you will and that's exactly what our sales force did is we were able to take the product that we had available and get a higher price for that that's why you saw the record EBITDA.
So in 2016 the challenge is to go back to probably some of those customers who we high graded out of it offer them the opportunity to participate in buying these products going forward and manage the gross margin along with the growth rates.
And I'd add a couple more comments on what Curt said.
If you look at the year-over-year results the volume is down about 2% which is pretty much what we had said – that we thought the volumes would be pretty much the same.
And so I think it's coming as they anticipated or as we'd anticipated for the past six or seven months and then things are looking so far pretty good for the first quarter.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And still sticking with Siding are you seeing any increased competitive behavior especially as your mill ramps up in Siding? Well we have a competitor that has been very aggressive.
They don't like the fact that we're more durable than they are.
So they're competing against us with us on price.
And that's principally close to where they have their facilities.
Their Texas market has been a market they've been very aggressive and some of the central part of the country they've been pretty aggressive.
Okay.
And then third question just on share repurchases how are you thinking about it right now given where the share prices and your view of the OSB market over the next 12 months to 18 months? Well I think the best way to answer that is with the statement we made about the $120 million to $135 million that we have in capital that is being reinvested in growth primarily in our Siding business as well as capital maintenance and cost reduction.
So that's really where the focus is right now in terms of capital allocation.
Got it.
And then just one last question what was your operating rate in OSB or in any way if you can quantify the economic downtime in the fourth quarter in OSB? Sure.
We took about 128 down days which is the equivalent of just under 200 million square feet.
Got you.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Good luck in 2016.
I will turn it over.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon of Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Hi good morning Curt and Sallie.
First question is I might have missed this but what did you all say the total CapEx was for 2016? Between $120 million and $135 million.
Okay.
And Chip.
Sorry if I could just give a little more color because I think it's important.
About $100 million is allocated to North America and about $35 million to Chile and we would expect the Chilean capital expenditures to be funded within Chile either through cash on hand or local bank financing.
Got you.
And there seem to be some – like there's a still a chance you might push that out just some of the commentary if I heard that right and sort of when is the go no go decision point for that project? Right.
Where we are now now that we've gone through the environmental permitting and getting the approvals and the necessary waiting period and frankly some legal issues that we had to go through.
We're in a position now to complete the engineering on that term and the equipment that we take down there.
And as I said in my comments I anticipate taking that to the – we'll do some preliminary work prior to the summer board meeting but I anticipate that taking that to our Board in the summer.
And that's why Sallie waffled on the $20 million to $35 million it depends on the timing on when we start that.
Okay.
And then let's say you do get – you do the maximum this year what would next year's pipeline look like at this point knowing that it's early in 2016 but I mean would that number likely come down or are there other projects that you're thinking about maybe you don't want to tell us that would keep the CapEx at that level? We're not going to provide any direct guidance on that but what I will say is when we put Swan Valley in place there were some siding projects to maximize our system and we're doing some of those this year and that will continue into next year.
The other thing – and as you look longer term this was as Ketan mentioned we didn't have much growth in Siding this year because we mistimed when the new capacity came online.
So we have to be cognizant of that and make sure that we have Siding capacity in front of the demand.
So you will see in the next probably two years to three years that we will have to do something to add additional Siding capacity as we believe Swan will only give us about two and a half years of headroom.
I see I see and then when you look at the Siding segment I want to make sure I heard this right you are saying that within the kind of operating EBIT and EBITDA numbers were $6 million of costs this for the quarter and $11 million for the year that shouldn't repeat in 2016 did I hear that right? You did.
Yes.
Hey got you got you okay.
Well that's great thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Curt when you think about housing recovery longer term and the Millennials that you mentioned we clearly seem to be seeing more of strength in multi-family are you thinking about the long-term rate of demand differently than you were maybe three years or four years ago? Again I was just at the Harvard meeting and you can poo poo him but Mark Zandi talked to Moody's and his comment is demographics is destiny and he just said with the number of Millennials coming forward and the need for housing whether it's single family or multi-family we're going to have to pick up the pace.
And I think that was the common theme among the participants.
What I believe is that we are probably fully recovered in the multi-family and you should see about that same level of construction going forward.
But I think single family is going to see more growth.
Interesting statistic that they presented at the meeting is that the percentage of Millennials who want to own a home hasn't changed it's 92% 8% said they are happy renting for the rest of their life 92% said they want to own a home.
That's pretty compelling and that's very consistent with other surveys that have been done.
What's stopping them today is that the job – we've had the job growth but we haven't had the wage growth and then the financing for first time homebuyers has become much more difficult.
All right.
Okay that's helpful.
One more question we're used to seeing more of a lag in OSB prices as they move up than as they move down.
So how much of the improvements that you saw on realizations would you say was coming from the Q3 pickup versus the Q4 and if we saw OSB more or less hang out would you expect to see a meaningful increase from here in Q1? The way I would answer that is that FEA Forest Economic Advisors who we use to look at pricing they have 2016 pricing about 16% higher than 2015.
And what we saw in January is we saw a slight pricing downturn in OSB that kind of continued in the first two weeks of February and it's stabilized the last week or so.
So I mean I can't really give you much more of a forecast than that I have missed the OSB forecast the last 9 or last 10 years.
So that puts you on a par with everybody else so.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Mark.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from George Staphos of Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning guys.
This is actually John Babcock on the line for George.
Just a couple of quick questions here.
First on the OSB segment I was wondering if you could discuss the non-price drivers of EBITDA.
It looks like you got about an $18 million contribution from price but just want to get a sense for what else might have helped you there? Well the raw materials I mean the two key ones are lower raw material cost year-over-year and the exchange rate the Canadian U.S dollar exchange rate.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So that was really all – there wasn't much as far as efficiency improvement or any of that really involved in there? No.
The downtime in the fourth quarter of 2015 was a lot greater than the fourth quarter of...no no it's about the same.
Downtime was about the same.
Downtime was about the same yeah.
We did reduce inventories in the fourth quarter.
Right.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Sounds good.
And then the next question I had we've noticed in industry trade publications and comments coming from the builders that there are new entrants in siding coming from the plastics market and I just want to get a sense for whether you've seeing any impact from these competitors and if so if what your plans are as far as maintaining that growing market share going forward? Well I'm not aware of any plastic siding.
There is – obviously there is vinyl siding which has benefited from lower resin costs with oil-based materials coming down.
I'm not aware of any new competitors from plastic.
I mean Boise had a product many years ago that they tried to bring to the market but I'm not aware of any.
So maybe you can send me some information on that – I'll follow up.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right well it sounds good.
So it sounds like the impact at this point has been mild been little (39:10) then.
And then the last thing I was just wondering if you could discuss distributor inventories in any sort of way you could quantify or validate I know your comments on dealer inventory has been allowed (39:19) it would be helpful? Well I think – again we had our sales meeting in the first week in January and really conversations with our field sales force and the guys or the team that manages the big builder and the big distributor they all had comments that inventories were being held relatively lean.
And I think that probably was a reaction to last year.
So if you remember last year people built up inventories we shipped a lot of product in the first quarter and then we had the terrible weather and didn't flush through the system until May or June.
And I think they're relatively cautious as a result of that.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
Well that's all I have for now.
Thanks.
Okay.
Before we go onto the next question I do want to mention back on the OSB that we are seeing improved performance from our Peace Valley and Clarke County and that did drive along with the improvement in raw materials and the Canadian/US dollar relationship.
That did also drive the improved performance in the OSB.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bill Hoffmann of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Thanks and good morning.
Good morning.
Curt can you talk a little about how Swan is running right now and sort of what kind of operating rates is there any sort of startup problems or anything like that? What we assumed is that we would – in November December that we would basically be working out the kinks and running that really A grade probably in the 20% range but then downgrade we'd sell out of that though in the fourth quarter.
That's pretty much the way it played out.
In the first quarter we had planned for 50% capacity and I think we ran a little over 60% in January.
In the second quarter we assume 75% of capacity and then by summer we'd be running right at capacity.
And so what do you think from a – from a salable product what kind of volumes do you think you can get out of there incrementally this year? Well if the overall capacity because we have to downgrade from OSB because we can't run it as fast as of probably a 350 million square foot mill.
So if we say we're going to run full the second half that would be 175 million then – so we're probably talking about 225 million kind of numbers.
Okay.
And just as far as the market demand for that – it sounds to me like you feel like you can fill that void reasonably quickly or at least you said like 2.5 years kind of things so? Yeah.
Generally we would expect to be somewhere in the 100 million to 140 million increase in volume on an annual basis.
Okay.
Now you do remember Bill that what we will do is we will move Siding volume out of Hayward and run OSB there.
So while that won't be reported in the OSB segment.
We will run probably 225 million feet of OSB in Hayward.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then the CanExel business just given some of the softness there how is that affecting operating rates in those plants and...
Well CanExel is a – it's a single plant and it's a...
Right.
...
and it's a finished product.
So we sell it as already painted.
Right.
The decline in CanExel really we had an issue in Europe with two of our colors that we had – we actually had a legal dispute with a paint vendor on that but that aside we stopped selling those products in Europe about a year ago.
And we've introduced new colors into Europe but it's taken awhile for those to take hold so the primary reduction hasn't been in Canada.
It's been in the European business that we were that was satisfying on that facility.
Okay.
Thanks and then finally just your drive towards pushing more into the industrials market what is your mix today and what is the outlook for 2016 industrial side? I don't have the industrial numbers in front of me but what we did what we do track is how much of our OSB is value-added and last year in 2014 it was about 40% and we increased that by about 4% to 44% in 2015.
So we did make progress there.
That was largely it was FlameBlock it was TechShield Radiant Barrier and our flooring products.
Any thought for 2016 similar growth rates? Well we're hoping what my objective is to get that over 50% but I don't think we're going to do it this year it will be multiple steps.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Couple kind of follow-ons.
Just first of all on that last comment on the TechShield and FlameBlock is the pricing for that product less volatile than it is for the commodity grades kind of any rule of thumb you can give us there? Yes on FlameBlock it is not tied random links we do a quarterly pricing.
So obviously we have to take random links into consideration but it's a quarterly pricing not subject to weekly adjustments.
On TechShield and our flooring products those are largely an adder so they're still tied to random links.
And what we're trying to do is move some of the higher end point products away from random links but we haven't done that yet.
On the industrial products they are priced generally on a quarterly basis.
Inc.</span></strong> And order of magnitude FlameBlock and industrial products would be what percentage of the total? Well FlameBlock is just in its infancy now.
We probably had a 40% increase last year but on a very small base.
We expect with the new plant we're putting in place we're adding about 30 million square feet of capacity and there's about 20 million at our partners right now.
So when that's fully running that will be about 50 million square feet.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And do you have the industrial products offhand roughly? I think the industrial I guess is probably around 100 million to 120 million feet.
Sounds about right.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And on the Siding business obviously we're going to have the benefit of not having Swan Valley so that's kind of an 11 million positive kicker.
Presumably we're going to have better volume and it sounded like though that on the pricing side you could see that third quarter to fourth quarter first of all is down a little bit and that January comment you said about things being strong.
Can you give us a sense as to what was happening on the pricing in January and some realistic expectations maybe for 2016? In 2015 we put a price increase in place that took effect in January 1.
We have not put a price increase in place for this year yet.
And I'm not sure we will because we're trying to recover that or get back to the growth rates that we've enjoyed in the past.
So I think that you probably won't see any major change in the price because the mix will get better but I don't think we're going to put any price increases in.
What you will see is that we will probably go back to some of the customers that as I mentioned that were high graded out and get back into their good graces and start selling.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
One of the reasons we can do that is Swan Valley it will be the lowest cost plant in our system so it does give us a little bit of flexibility to maintain margins while giving a little on the price.
Inc.</span></strong> Right and presumably you're going to certainly want to be generating incremental profit on that volume so is it fair to say that you will be disappointed if you don't see at least $10 million of improvement in siding 2016 versus 2015 just at Swan Valley reversal? I would be very disappointed.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's very fair.
Inc.</span></strong> And...
I just put pressure on our General Manager by the way.
Thanks Curt.
Inc.</span></strong> And then lastly so with exchange rates where they are there is a lot of talk out there that the Canadian mills are very very profitable much more so than the U.S.
mills when you look into your system how are things shaking out Canada versus the U.S.
right now in OSB? Yeah in OSB the problem is that all of our customers know that the Canadian exchange rate is down and so if you look at the primary benchmarks for product from Canada coming into the U.S.
which will be the Western Canadian print and the Eastern Canadian print they are by far and away the lowest performers across the region.
So unfortunately we haven't been able to capture all that because they're giving some of that pricing we're giving it back in pricing in the random links reported numbers.
I think currently between North Central and Western Canada we have a $40 differential so that more than makes up.
So that's the problem.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
So actually the Canadian mills are not more profitable per se than the U.S.
mills at this point given those price differences is that fair? Well if they're selling into those regional pricing environments then they would not be more profitable.
Now if they can – if they're closer to like the North Central market then they could be.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Steve Chercover of D.
A.
Davidson.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Can you hear me? Hang on.
You're okay.
We won't cut you off.
Today.
Well I'm on a cell phone so you just never know.
So Q4 certainly demonstrates that price is more important than volume and I think that Swan Valley conversion was part of that and I recognize you've got some other good things going on but you think this industry can get religion on capacity management? Well I can only talk about LP Steve and you saw the amount of downtime that we took we did pull inventories down throughout the year.
We just think that if we were more real time with the market and not have an inventory overhang that makes a lot of sense.
So we are running our mills to respond to the demand that we have.
Perfect.
If everyone does the same thing then we should be in a better shape.
And then switching gear to Siding the new facility I take it that the switch at Hayward back to some commodity OSB is going to limit the chance that you will saturate the Siding market and hurt pricing? No that's not the dynamic the dynamic is that we want to run Swan full on Siding but we don't have demand yet for 100% of the Siding capacity we have.
So we'll use that swing capability at Hayward to run OSB in the North Central region.
Okay.
And then but you could be theoretically sold out within three years or so.
Yeah.
Yes.
So what other mothballed mills do you have beyond Chambord that could be I guess taken to Siding? Well we have other equipment throughout the system and I don't want to be too specific because our competitors are listening here but we have under – the fellow who heads up all of our procurement and logistics in forestry.
He's got a team put together to look exactly at that at sites that make logistical sense that make sense from a personnel standpoint and to look at equipment that we could redeploy most cost effectively.
So that was my comment about – when you think about future capital.
We do have to think where the next mill goes to support the siding growth.
And when we think of the equipment that you have in storage and I mean that's everything from waferizers to a press presumably? Yes.
Okay.
And then you've done a great job teaching Chile and Brazil to build with OSB when are you going to teach them to cover the frame with SmartSide siding? Actually in Chile we already make siding down there.
And actually the third mill that we want to put in Chile we will put on the same site we already share and that smaller mill will likely go to a 100% SmartSide with the new mill being OSB.
That is exactly our plan.
We are struggling to figure out how to do that in Brazil with a continuous press and we haven't figured that one out yet.
Okay so the results that we get from South America is not just OSB but also siding it is comingled.
Correct.
Great.
Okay.
Thank you both.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our final question will come from Paul Quinn of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Yeah thanks.
Good morning Curt and Sallie.
Just a couple of questions.
One you've shown good growth in Siding and also in South America.
I just wondering what the growth plans are for OSB in North America given the sort of bullish comments that U.S.
housing is still recovering? Well we still have as Sallie just told you we had 128 down days in the fourth quarter.
So we'd like to get rid of those first and then the further growth is we still have the Chambord mill that is indefinitely curtailed.
Looking at any options above that and is there any change in the status at Chambord? No change in status as near as we can tell nobody bid for the wood.
So we still have a very good chance of getting that back should we want to start it up but with 128 down days in the quarter I'd much rather fill that out and as Sallie said we've made a very good progress at Peace Valley and Clarke County getting them up to their rated capacities.
Okay and then just shifting on lastly to the EWP section if I understood Sallie's comments right Holden added 3.5 million (54:50) so EBITDA really on that segment in 2015 is really that 58 minus the 3523 (55:06)? For yes for the OSB piece.
Right.
Yes.
Okay.
And then any idea about the operating rate was for EWP in 2015.
For the industry I'm guessing we were at 60%.
That's fine.
And you guys weren't much different from the industry? We weren't much different than the industry.
We do have a little bit of an export business so that offset a little bit but we are probably right there with the rest of the industry.
In fact Sallie and I just looked at some numbers yesterday and our growth in I-Joist was a little bit better than the industry.
Our growth in LVL was a little bit less and then LSL was above.
But fundamentally we grew where the industry grew.
Thanks.
That's all I had.
Thanks Paul.
Thanks Paul.
Actually I think that's all the time we have for questions.
So if you could please provide the replay number.
And I'd like to thank everybody for participating in our call.
And Mike and Becky are here to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
So thank you very much and have a great day.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen this call will be available for replay February 11 2016 starting at 2 PM Eastern ending February 18 2016 at 11:59 PM.
The replay phone numbers are 800-585-8367 also 855-859-2056 and 404-537-3406.
The replay code is the conference ID number which is 26143516.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude the program.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.